ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u1	Borist has received a letter from the following sendees requesting every time to provide written answers to queries: From the health minister for the requested application. 1481 to support children's parents with split palates, from Friðriksson; to a threshing floor. 1521, of the costs of specific institutions for purchase and use in Microsoft software, from Björn Leví the son of Gunnarsson; and on the threshing floor. 1522, about commercials on community media, from Biran Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. From Minister of Foreign Affairs for a petition on the deck. 1036, a subscription to newspapers, magazines, and other media, from Björn Leví son of Gunnarsson, and finally from Environment and Resource Ministers for a requested application. 1570, with regard to expenses and the use of general and custom software at the Ministry and its subsystems, from Björn Leví the son of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u2	To answer these questions, Minister of Transport and Foreign Affairs, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Health Ministers, Foreign Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers and Environmental and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u3	President. Last Friday, I was standing on Eastfield, along with the highest. Minister and number of horses. Congress officials spoke to the participants of the climate strike. In fact, about one third of the members of Congress were able to meet children and young people who require action for disaster relief, and I don't think that any group of protesters have made a similar conversation with members and ministers but this group. I'm a memorable word. Similarly, a minister at this meeting, thanking these young contractors for their maintenance but encouraged them to look with optimism at the positive actions that the government had made in and who also stood to carry out in the years to meet the disaster and to achieve the objectives of the Paris Convention. At the same meeting, I directed the actions to monitor the changes in financial programs available at the time. Because like we did at the highest. Ministers know words are inexpensive, but action against disaster costs. Thus, the budget is far more accurate to predict the actual plans of the government than the wonderful promises of a talk and a publication. These changes have been made, and among the government's productions, income is made from new green taxes will be worth 1.5 billion. over the next five years. In order to obtain these funds in the box, waste materials as well as fluorinated greenhouse gases will be available for use in cooling and freezing equipment. But what are these increased tax returns? As far as I can see, there's enough money to cut down the environmental budget during the period compared to what was originally estimated to be about 10%. So I ask the highest. Minister: Should environmental taxes really fetch 11 billion, which, though, results in a contraction to the jury at 10%?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u4	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator's inquiry. Hv. A senator asks for green taxes. It is a great joy, in my opinion, that the government has now taken the step of putting in the kind of impulse that has long been missing. The main factor is the increasing price of waste waste, which is fundamentally to encourage more waste to be recycled and recycled. It has long been suggested in this country that waste waste has been too cheap, but no action has been taken in this regard. If we look to the North and more European countries, this is a very common way to encourage environmental action to be implemented and the price at the bottom of a so - called waste pyramid and what we should avoid. The same can be said of the so - called f-gas or fluorated greenhouse gases. It contains tax returns which should be encouraged to stop their use by step. If we consider the relevance of this in the major climate policy issue, we are responsible for about 7% of the emissions of Icelanders and f-raggas to others 7% when it comes to the direct commitments of the government of the United States. I have declared that there will be no movement of the budget for climate with the changes that have been introduced in a financial program. I simply intend to keep it. If the percentages of increase are examined, we are talking about a 15% increase already in 2019 budgets compared to 2017 in the environment, and it appears to be up to about 34% in 2024.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u5	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. What I don't quite understand, given the way this is presented in the government's proposal for a changed financial programme, is that they are catalysed to the highest degree. Ministers say that they do not appear to be there but are expected to continue taxpaying due to these new taxes during the period. If we do so, we will not be expected to change. If tax returns are to continue in the same rate all these years, the theory does not hold water that this will somehow discourage. V.E.G. A minister says it's inexpensive to grow. I wonder: Is it cheap enough to recycle? Is it easy enough for people in the country to recycle? I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: To whom do these charges fall? And since we are taking $11 billion on tax returns, up-to-date by the public and companies in the country, they do not provide 11 billion more injections in the environment than they are filling up into anything because of nothing particularly unexpected economic breakdowns?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u6	V.E.G. President. The hems should lead to a gradual decline in the watch, and this is expected to occur. It's probably not one, two, and three, but it'll probably take a leap over the past. These measures are extremely important to try to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. I know why. A senator will no doubt support it, for this is a wise action that is very important. The tents will fall on those sending wastes. It's both business and public. But it is very important to try to implement this in a way that our expenses do not fall on those who are industrious in sorting and separating their garbage - that they do not fall upon them and on those individuals. That's a staging point. Of course, there is a view that this should follow an environmental approach. But we are living in a world where income laws run, and we see a great increase in environmental spending in the coming years. These tax proposals are primarily to promote environmentalization in the way of life.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u7	A respectable president. I've come here sometimes, straight my words to the top. A health minister and I'm going to thank her for being here with us today, so I have the opportunity to do it again. The joys about the U.S.A. and the budget we agreed on for Christmas to provide 150 million. K. to the work at the U.S.A. is the natural contract that has already reached 100 million in the walking departments. The objective was as we understood it, or at least Most of us, spending the lists on The Vig. Then I understand that there are 50 million left who have not, according to my conversation this morning, have been negotiated yet, unfortunately. I hope that's a good way, and that's what I want to say at the highest. Secretary of health. We now know, according to U.S. National Meeting, there is an increase in the waiting list to the Vig. Now 650 people are waiting for treatment and assistance at the hospital Hall of Vogi. The figures I had before were about 600. The quality of this situation is the latest number of surgeons who show that premature death has been reduced because of opioid abuse and drug poisoning. In 2018, 39 individuals died of such toxicities. I'd like to ask the highest. Healthcare Minister on top of increased prophylaxis. What's their contract with 50 million in the hospital Veng? And what's the highest premium. Health Minister to work now with full force, as I believe it is doing so that we can see a further positive trend in the reduction of mortality due to opioid abuse?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's request and agrees with the senator's case that we can truly rejoice that the number of drug overdoses due to prescription has decreased by half the previous year compared to the same time in the previous year. It is the evaluation of the government's office, as well as of the executive director, that there must have been an impact on increased awareness of the harmful effects as well as specific actions of the Ministry of Health, which are subject to altering the regulation of the environment regarding the prescribing of these products. But most important of all is public awareness and, of course, health groups too. I'm especially glad that there's a number of us that our premature deaths are dropping. That's what we're down to. A senator agrees that it is not difficult to cope, and I have, and I want to continue. Hv. A senator in particular asks about the 50 million that has not yet been negotiated in the current year and year. The labour board specifically marked agreements with the U.S.A. in accordance with the Ministry of Health for this issue. It's a pleasure to relate that I've written a letter to Iceland's Medical Insurance, where I have emphasized that these 50 million contracts are taken up as soon as possible. I have also had a meeting with the head of the U.S.A. on these issues and, in fact, others involved in the field of contact between the Ministry and the U.S.A. and the Vog's Hospital. There, I had certain ideas about how these funds could be used best for the most vulnerable groups in the United States, and I took it well. But the project is at Iceland's Medical Insurance and I hope we'll see the results of this teamwork the first.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u9	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The health minister for the answer. The fact is, there are now some 125 million still in Iceland's accounts of the 150. Despite a walking contract, only 25 million of the 100 have been paid out, even though the year is about 25 million of the 100. half done. But I'm really happy if you're gonna spit in your hands as far as you're concerned and I want to believe that this money will at least work. I'll have everything ready for next New Year's Eve. We may have little reason to think otherwise. But I'm asking where it's at the highest. Healthcare Minister mentioned the medication cases: is the highest. A health minister has considered some of the massive drug abuse we now face? We are hundreds of tons of medicine every year, prescribed too much to a sick person. In fact, they have died from full cabinets of drugs, up to a value of 600,000. and it is clear that individuals have fallen away. We're seeing an enormous waste in this regard, and these are even medicines that are coming into the market right now. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking if the highest. A health minister is also giving a little thought to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u10	A respectable president. Yes, this is one of the subjects mentioned. It is clear that we must put on a much better impression on that party. We are not alone in that situation, i.e. Icelanders, rather, is the challenge that becomes more and more challenging as time goes forth in the countries around us too. We'll see, for example. Repeated reports from Finland on the lack of medicine and the cost of the countries around us increase from year to year, especially with regard to the most expensive and complex substances. We need to get a lot better at this than we've done. It was a pleasure to relate that we were reaching our first step in making a common supply of drugs with Norwegians and Danas during the days, an effort to achieve the price, to combine strings with others. It has long stood to try to do so. I finally want to say that I expect that money to get into work before the YES and the good work there. I will use them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u11	A respectable president. Today, I would like to direct my words to the highest level. Environment Minister in the management framework. For some time there has been a request on the Environment Commission to the highest level. A minister visits the committee and reviews the situation because the development of an updated program was on the Constitution. The project management has recently turned in but nothing in an up - to - date suit. How interesting it will be to see if a minister is planning to make some adjustments in the proposal of the Commission or whether a minister will see to it that the project management suggestions are still being submitted! But what I would like to know is by the highest level. Today, the answer to the questions is: What is the situation of this work? When can the council expect to learn how the matter unfolds? Do the Minister see changes in the proposed project proposals? In the first round, I'm going to make this work as questions to the highest level. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u12	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Maybe that's why I haven't met you yet on the Committee because it's not yet time for the committee to be informed of what lies ahead. I'd like to emphasize that in a government contract, there is primarily talk about improving electrical security and that peace-enforcement areas of the Preservation Programme agreed on by 2013. This is the guide I've had at work, i.e. starting a peace description of the area of a protective frame program. So the situation is that when it comes to the second stage adopted 2013, we have been sending posts on the peace descriptions of the reservations of water, and it has been a little harder than I expected, but we hope to send it from us before the summer. This is the priorities I've had in my life, but at the same time, it's been thought of by step 3, which gave its proposal to the minister about two years ago. I have considered it important to do things in this order, in line with the guidelines in the government covenant. It is not time to determine in the manner in which the plan will be submitted to the council, but we plan to do so during the next session.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u13	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for an interesting answer, and I allow myself to say honestly because these are new information, but not new, so that I merely introduced this into a speech I held in the kitchen days last year, where I was worried that it would be conscious of being broken apart, violating the tool of the frame plan. That's the best. A minister has as a standard of his work primarily the government's policy declaration, but not a framework in these matters, which is a legal process as we know it, is quite interesting. I just want to pray to the highest. Minister to come up here and correct me if I'm mistaken that a frame plan has become a slaving factor in this work. The plan was to submit a frame plan for this assembly. [[The president calls.]] Now it's at the top. Ministers intend to bring it up to the next assembly, but at the same time, it tells them that everything else is under control.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u14	V.E.G. President. Since the Treaty has not changed anything since its appearance, it is quite clear that the matter of peace-declaring sites in the second part of the framework is emphasised. It hasn't changed a bit, and I've worked it out. You're right. A senator says, and it's also being done in the Ministry, for the law states that this arrangement is to be submitted by law. She'll be on the council next year. It was not completed during this session. The system is not being crushed down, far away. This is a work here according to the rules and laws that apply. The Senator doesn't have to worry that I'm working underground or aware of breaking down the framework system that I believe is an extremely important system to guide us as to where we should not engage in activations and where to attack the continuum transfunctioners. As we know, the energy efficiency category has to be viewed in each case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u15	Mr. President. In March. was introduced in this house by the Government's financial program of promises of the State's various expenditures. Now, just over two months later, the government's decrees are being made to reduce these amounts significantly in very important and delicate areas. There's some explanation here. I want to ask the highest. The Minister of Education on his lawsuits, which are quite important. To state, these numbers are from the government. How is it that innovation and research receive less than 3 billion dollars? reduction combined for the next five years from what the older financial programs had anticipated? How is it, Mr. President, that colleges get 1.8 billion bucks? how much money was spent for the next five years, in accordance with financial planning? What is more: How is it that the total high school contribution directly reduces over the next five years despite the assurance that the so - called shortening money should continue and talk about education? Comparing 2019 and 2024 reduces the total amount. How is it, Mr. President, that culture, art, sports, and youth have a 9% reduction in total production of 2019◯2024? Finally, I especially note that the university level, if set aside in the original financial programme since March of March, receives a similar amount in 2019 and 2024. On the contrary, there is a minister of large attendances in this field and a clear promise in the government covenant for a huge increase to the university. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. What's going on?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u16	A respectable president. As for college, it has increased in the past three years in fixed prices by 6.8%. We haven't seen such an increase to high school for years. Next year, the increase will continue for each student. What we're doing at high school but we haven't been done before is that we're setting priorities for training and education. We have new categories, how we put in and on all those categories, and each student is elevated in 2020. There's something else I'd like to say, which, of course, is absolutely great, and I hope that the Senate and the highest. Ministers can rejoice in our efforts in this, when we have attacked educational procedures involving the recent training of teachers. It's been a huge educational need, and for the first time, we're going to follow your skills, i.e. each of the teachers' needs to be done in 2032. Best of all, the government put 250 million in this category of lawsuits this year. And what's happening? 45% increase new registrations at the University of Iceland. We haven't seen such an increase for decades. It is clear that if we fail to care for the teacher's work environment and fail to take these measures, we will not have a superior education system. Next time I'd like to mention the university. In the past three years, university levels have increased by 10.2% on solid prices, and the increase will continue over the years. It is also fun to say that we have built a new system of support for students who have been very different and have become much greater options, so that rather than owe around 7 million after five years of study, they owe about 3.8 million. When I present that bill, I look forward to going over it in the Senate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u17	Mr. President. I didn't really think the Minister would answer that. It's nice to be ambitious in education, but when it comes to financial matters, we're going backwards. The total production to high school will be less than 2024, than 2019; we're going down. Then there are these changes that the government calls for after we agree, and there's a direct decrease in contributions to college by 1.8 billion. It was an agreement that the so - called short price should go on, not to reduce money to high school. Since then, these ministers and others have been ambitious and have repeatedly talked about education. By 2019, the University receives 39 billion outside the LIN, but it receives 40 billion 2024. This is almost the same amount as I don't see the parish that the government boasts of. The numbers don't lie and this isn't space science, Mr. President. I just want the Ministers to read their own Excel documents, but they may be a little deep on them, considering that these bad changes are in package 7. I suspect it was supposed to be here to slip some very bad changes through the council during the last days. [[The president calls.]] That's a good thing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry and his interest in education and the desire to remain in a great educational pursuit, that's all well. Hv. A senator mentioned culture, but if we look at it in 2020, an increase will continue. It's first and last because of a conquistador to promote Icelandic, official, and we'll also put more money in the library fund for writers. This is done, and all the activities we have taken regarding culture and books and other books, in order to increase the number of books that are available to children and young people, in order to get more people to read and improve the international comparison we have in reading ability. In these days, the head of education at the National Economics and Development Institute was giving a lecture at the HI and he said he liked the actions we were going in and seeing that there were long-term goals, which were very good. It will certainly be true of everything we've said, and I'm proud of what we've already accomplished. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u19	A respectable president. I'd like to have a conversation with the highest. Minister, who is also chairman of the forwarding party and pointer of one of three federal groups, on the recent opinion of financial adviser on the review of government financial policy. It is not a matter of remuneration that this government service was established for a large interest in government funds. It was taped in this government work that has often been done more than presciently, for at the same time it has been very uncertain as to the goals behind the big campaign, the effectiveness of others than the advancement of Kingdom spending alone. Thus, when the review of the financial council is read, the government presents a very serious penalty for the financial government. In the same financial administration, it is reported that the problem of the government today, as reflected in a review of its economic policy, lies primarily in a weak financial management rather than in the weak economic leaders, all the way as the government works, since the accumulated economic growth during the financial policy period is 13% instead of the 14% originally assumed. In fact, financial advisers come to a very clear conclusion: There is no basis for this review except for the very reason that economic development is expected to be much inferior to the government and to submit changes to the government's financial programme. But that is why the government simply doesn't expect it in its budget and income plans. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is it not important to listen to this warning of financial counsel immediately and to consider changes in the government's revised financial policy rather than to wait for the next year to revise it as under financial advice very clearly that it could become so? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u20	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. Hv. A senator well knows the course that has been followed, and what the government set up, and we have made a significant increase in expenses during the first two budgets of the government. Hv. A member and his group have criticized the fact that they have gone too far while other groups of the anti - government stand have encouraged further progress on expenses. By the time the government was formed, it was even. Imagine that there is no big investment in the infrastructure simply because we lost many years after the collapse. I can agree with that with what. A senator who, despite the fact that we have put so much investment into action, even In investments, the government's investment rate is not public enough. In the years to come, we need to look for ways to keep on increasing our investment, including some of them. to promote good economic, economic, and commercial forecasting. We simply put on the table, just as when men enter the election, what we had preached before elections, and we've done a tremendously good job of it. It is true that financial advisers have criticized the last two financial programmes, that people have left too little behind, that they have been too low on the table, but I cannot agree that there are no reasonable reasons for reviewing financial policy. If we read the first phrases in the economy, it is the largest change since 1992 or 1988 and therefore perfectly natural to bring changes into this room. Now, though, there is room for financial policy in relation to the financial agenda. [[The president calls.]] I know that the debate at the council has been about whether it's enough. We have to find out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u21	Mr. President. That is the very essence of a matter. Since the beginning of the reign of this government, it has been warned that the economic predictions it has produced from its own plans are too optimistic. It is still being warned, and the government still ignores it. Moreover, what is noted in the review of financial advice is clear warning that, on the other hand, there is not enough caution and no evidence is given why it is set in terms of 0.4% or any other number, and secondly, that is now a media class. Ministers directly, if the survivors of rural society are very optimistic. That is why you look again and again at the position that the government is here in a historical deviation based on a relatively small variation in overall interest. It is forgotten to consider that economic growth in 2018 was much higher than expected. There's a first reexamination of financial policy on the weak unless the government believes that economic leaders are far weaker than expected. [[The president calls.]] Is it not important to listen to the financial counsel's warnings, chief? Minister? Can we not agree on that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u22	A respectable president. All of us can agree that it is wise and necessary, being built up into the system, that financial counsel gives us guidance and monitors and offers some tips, and that's exactly what we're doing. Hv. A senator regularly comes up here, has done so in recent years, and has said that we are supporting too optimistic economic predictions. It is simply so that into this system of public finance, the legal environment, we will support these public forecasts and none else. However, we have left behind a considerable amount of rest. A senator wanted to go much further and to bring more leftovers. However, it may be appropriate to recall that a group of people is "woe. " For eight, nine months, a senator made his own ideas. How have they been able to endure? Maybe we need a little bit of a whisk. A senator when he has been criticized here for the expenses of the current government and the situation that now exists and tells where he is going to cut down in the health system, in the education system, in the welfare system, or in investments. [[The president calls.]] You can't do everything. In the position we are in, we are trying to do the best we can. [[The point is, are you telling the truth now?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u23	Mr. President. The lung of this season, the rest of it, I've been asking for some news of the inquiry that I first sent to the highest level. Minister of Social Affairs, then the highest. Minister of Justice. A council is now about to be completed and should be completed, but nothing gets out of the question. I have to look again for President because the government is founded on strengthening the work of the Generals and asking that this inquiry be answered before the council ends. On the one hand, I also wait for the answer to a question asked to the secretary of finance for a previous in the tax system, but I believe that if an answer is made, it could be a reasonable feed in a conversation about the promotion and, at the same time, the plagiarized financial programme of the government. Therefore, I now ask the President for once again to grant me, as part of this council to support, the team to answer those inquiries immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u24	The president will ask where the answers to these two queries are in place.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u25	Mr. President. It's amazing what's the highest. Ministers take a long time to respond to council inquiries. I asked the Secretary of Economics and Economics last January 29th. on resource-related issues, taxing the energy company, and still no response has been made. At the beginning of April, I asked the same highest question. Ministers on matters related to company income tax, business interest and income tax provided by these companies to the government funds, and yet no response has been received. You can't live with this late life. I'll ask the President to investigate these inquiries as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u26	The president will add this to the list and they will be checked for answers or if they are lost in the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u27	President. I just come up so that it doesn't come out like the criticism of the government alone because it's the common interests of the council. That's why I agree with them. Congressmen who have spoken before me. No matter where a group of ministers are, it is unacceptable to have the legal obligation to respond to the council within the amount of time given to them. If a longer period of time is needed to answer, simply report it and agree with the leader at each time. But it is quite simple: There is a deadline, and when the council asks, ministers will answer. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u28	Mr. President. I agree with those who have put words in their mouths because I asked the highest. Minister of Justice in March. the cost of an order from the Court's rights. So I repeated a request on May 20 in special discussions about the state of the state of the United States, and then I received an answer that later that week, in the state of the Ministry, would be sent to the council. Now I'm not going to go to the highest. The Minister of Justice to handle matters here, so I can't understand her words as different as that so that the answer is made to the council. You wonder where the answer is. Since they arrived at the council, why have they not brought us here? At least, the highest. The Minister of Justice to get the answer out of the Ministry that same week, so I now ask the highest. President: Where is the answer?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u29	Mr. President. Since the president is gathering into the cable, I'd like to add that I, along with a number of other members, agreed on the status of older citizens, a large report. In this hall it was accepted that the prime minister should report that way. The request was approved 20 weeks ago. According to Congress, I think I'm correct, Minister has ten weeks to report. I have full understanding that the request was extensive and concerns large areas of concern with senior citizens in this country, but since the president is collecting into the cable, he was also able to check the status of this report at the Prime Minister's office. I feel a lot as much as I can think of when the time is now twice as much as the Senate can expect.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u30	A respectable president. This is my favorite subject. The mean duration of response for active days is 35 days overall, not 15 as expected. Of all who respond to inquiries, the most distinguished president is the only one within the period of time with 13 active days in reply time, Minister of Justice 38 days, Minister of Social Affairs 39 days, Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs 42 days, Sea and Agriculture Ministers 27, Foreign Ministers 55, Environment and Resource Ministers 38, Minister of Education and Culture 53, Health Ministers 28, Prime Ministers 21, Transport and District Ministers 24, Industrial, Industrial and Development Ministers 37, Social Affairs and Children's Ministers Ministers, as he is now, 39.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u31	Mr. President. Already the case we are discussing was in 2nd. I didn't have the option to make an advance notice, but I'm on the economic and business committee's committee list on notice. The preemptives are because they're making an exception to the valuable tax system. We have a general step, which is 24%, and then we have 11% and then we don't have any merit taxes and we don't have access. This is an increase in the metabolic level by placing frequent products and contraception in 11% of the value tax. Of course, I don't object that these products are cheap, far from cheap. I will vote on this matter, but I want us, senators and what. Congress, let's think about the important revenue system that is worth the tax system and that's it to put menstrual products and contraception in 11%. Why not all medications? Why not all help tools? Why not these things, and why not the other life - threatening ones? As the accessions increase, the system becomes weaker, so that is my warning. The dignity of the tax system is not a good balance system. This has been demonstrated many times, and now, last, in a large report since 2015. That's not a good-gravation system. Those who have a lot of money and who can afford it get a much greater tax cut than those who can afford to buy less. It's not a good system to balance people's status. However, we are supposed to use the income tax system to do so, increase the paces there, and look to the northern countries where that route is immediately gone and try to keep the valuable tax system as widely as possible. This is my notice, Mr. President, and I have concluded.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u32	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion much, but I still wanted to leave a few things to think about. I think that in general we should be looking for a simple tax system, a moderate tax and transparent tax returns. There is a good meaning in this case as well as in any other case where there is going to be a relative factor in the general criteria, whether in terms of merit or any other tax base. There are many products that young people use much more than old or old use much more than young, women and men know, rural areas in the face of urban areas - these are all these factors that are used as logical support for their individual changes. I think we should resolve to try to keep the system as simple, transparent, fair as by itself, so to speak, as possible. That's all I wanted to say in this conversation. I just wanted to point out the obvious, that there are a lot of other factors that could become argumentative about changing such taxes as these; men/women and rurals/secures, old people/adolescents, and that could be counted for a long time. I'm not going to have any more words for this, but it looks like they're growing a little bit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u33	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. In many ways I can agree with what was expressed in his words as well as in his head. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter who mentioned earlier that the value of the tax system may not be at first good equations, etc. I described it as part of my talk on this subject when I considered why I was not in the language, even though I supported what is meant to be accomplished. And it shall come to answer me, because of reason. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason asks: Why not some other groups? He'll decide, for example. older and young, and different inhabitants of the country, but able to surmount. Yet, I agree that we are evening the position of these specific groups with various sides of our tax system. There are all kinds of funding systems, the portal systems, and the public simply waste considerable time, energy, and resources on balance if there are different conditions of life in groups due to age or residence. That's one thing I want to hear. Senator Commenter on. Then there is the fact that this group, i.e. The definition of male/females, first of all, is that it is about half of the population and secondly not something you decide. You can't decide which sex you end up with, and you're going into this injustice. But we choose our own, for example. Live. Age changes over the years, making it just different. I think we're here primarily watching that we're fixing the injustice that the only thing that matters is any kind of person is when you use a product and it's taxed in a different way. Watch your step. A senator is merely a member of this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u34	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Fridik's Friðriksson the answer. We are in the middle of the day and day, moving money between groups in one way or another so that perhaps to some extent it will answer all the other questions that follow. Somehow, that is what we volunteer to do and whether we like it or not, we are constantly moving money or value between different groups. Then there is the point that has to do with whether they are not relevant to some other point of view because they are the Sikhs that apply, and these are the places people do not choose. Although I'd bet on being able to choose it depends on half, what do you know? They vary from country to culture. I don't trust myself to include some examples just because I'm standing right now, but trust me to say that I don't think it's a good way to handle these matters. I would have to give myself more time to figure out how such things would be done, and then there are no doubt other factors that would arise that could be classed as comparable products and, for example, as well. the products that are being considered in this matter. But I'd have to give myself a little bit more time, it was more of a prince's finger I was talking for back here, but I don't think the merit tax system is a good system to be able to do a lot of extramortation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u35	President. I would like to recommend a committee study with a bill on bill to correct a change in drug and drug law. The Committee emphasizes its support for the above - mentioned objective, i.e. to bring in consumers, but to feel it is right to return the case to the government for further implementation. The bill suggests addition of addictive and drug laws to institutions of the home of an institution and business industry. The consumption capacity refers to a legal environment in which individuals aged 18 and over can consume intravenous drugs under the supervision of health care professionals and where hygiene, safety, and infection protection are maintained. Comments on the matter showed pretty definite support for the aim of creating consumers. It was observed by the Committee that consumption has been suspended for a few hours in Denmark following changes in the drug and drug law as a home institution and business of such areas. Copenhagen would have made a deal with the police about the rules that apply to space and the legal procedures around them. Says even in the agreement that in designated streets in the area of consumption, drug use is protected from drug abuse in the middle of the crime scene. In discussing the matter, it was noted that there had been a considerable consideration of the above arrangement of the bill. If such a report were thus expected to make a agreement with the police on how law enforcement would be conducted around the area, just as was done in Copenhagen. Looks like, for example. In the opinion of the Commission it is assumed that this will be further defined in such an agreement. Comments are made on this process by the chief of police in the capital area. Says even not to be found in existing laws, nor in any of the changes proposed in the bill, a warrant for the police to negotiate criminal areas, but there was serious doubt that such agreements could be made by the police without clear legal authority. A review of the above criticisms was given by the district attorney. Then the Commission requested a memo from the Ministry of Justice that would explain how a consultation with the Ministry was conducted, whether the bill provided adequate improvement for society contracts with the police on consumer activities and whether changes were required to be made in other laws in order to ensure adequate consumption of the legal environment. A summary of the Ministry of Justice presented the committee on May 24 and agrees with the above views. As we have seen, the Committee takes a complete mind with the objective of the bill and feels that it is urgent to attack the legal adjustments needed to ensure a legal basis for consumer activity. The Commission, however, feels that the bill does not provide sufficient support for the legitimate operation and that its aspects need to be reviewed by more extensive and effective consultations. The committee points out that this is a highly sensitive law code that can have a profound impact on people's health and rights. Then, in such legislation, there is a complex interaction between consumer rights, police roles, and responsible health care providers. In this regard, the Commission emphasizes that none of the views presented here describe opposition to consumption space. On the contrary, a discussion on the subject of rich wills was made to resolve the above opinions in consultation with the Ministry of Health. Therefore, direct the Committee to the Ministry of Health and Justice to continue working on the case and restore it as soon as possible. Were even. discussed on the committee that we would like to receive it immediately in the fall if there is a chance. I understand that it is the will of the council to speed matters up very quickly. The Commission also held the view that consumer waste would be best achieved if drug abuse were to be done unjustly. The committee points out that it will not be easy to eliminate punishment for behavior that is generally illegal within a certain area based on a view of damage. The bill's report points out that consumption is primarily for use as an option for those who are far led to addiction and that there is little hope of quitting their consumption. Adherence to the disease is taking steps to recognize that these individuals are primarily suffering from disease. The Commission feels that there is good reason to determine whether there is a greater reason for legislation to go on meeting these individuals so that they will not be punished because of that disease. Therefore, direct the committee to the health minister to work progressively to eliminate punishment for possession of doses of drugs. With reference to the above, the committee proposes that the bill be referred to the government. Under the heading this article, the author and second to Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Ingi In Jónsson, Árnadóttir Kolbrún, Guðjón Brjánsson Bruðsson, Guðmundur Irnsson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjándótir, and Vilmiramur Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u36	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra, Mogensen is very excited for the tour. I'm on a welfare committee as an officer, and I agree with it. Congress officials were disappointed to realize, in effect, that the last steps were not better accomplished. I'd like to get a guess at first. This is because she has directed a committee of significant weight, with many cases, and many of them have been in consultation and have made changes there before they enter a political treatment. This issue goes on course, but no one notices that there are large business associates, Justice Department, and then the law enforcement that does not enter and do not make comments, either because they were not asked or they ignored a request to do so. It has to be said that when the committee tried to get to the bottom of this, humans simply did not match. It may not be the big thing here, but it is quite clear that we on the committee agreed that we would not accept a case that was so grown that it would not be clear that the right of consumers would be legally guaranteed, I'm not talking about the criminal responsibility of employees. So it is a natural process. But I'm just wondering if there's anything I can do because we're taking the first steps by using the consultation puzzle. Although this is the most clear example of failure as a result of failure to enter there, it has occurred in other cases that large people do not enter at these early stages because they do not know or consider it to be wrong. This, in turn, affects the way the church treats. In view of this experience, is there anything that could be changed in this process in the opinion of the chairman in the presence of the consultation and the matter should be in sufficient consultations to prevent this from happening, that there are two agencies and other public people who are simply not ready to accept it when the matter is supposed to be in the final meters? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u37	President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. That's exactly a very important piece of friendship. We saw this crazy scarf in no time. I understood from my conversations with the Ministry that communication wasn't quite achieved, not enough. I understand it even happened in the starting holes, i.e. Not when the matter was made up but earlier when it was sought to get the help and judgment of the Ministry of Justice that the Ministry has not completely met. I can't tell you who it's to blame, I just don't know, but it's obviously something to fix. They'll need parties like the police and the state prosecutors at the table sooner. Something's gone wrong, and it's completely unclear what's causing it. It was very boring with this case, especially because it appears to a committee in which almost every member of the Committee, on the contrary, agrees with the objective of the bill that it should be a waste space and that it should be met with individuals who are in a very difficult position because of addiction and drug abuse and that it should treat them as patients and not criminals. I welcome the conclusion we've come to; there also seems to be a unity within the committee that the step should go further, or look at it at least, and cancel the penalty for consumption doses. What a marvelous conclusion that is! I hope the Ministry of Health feels the support it now has to do with that work, and look at taking this important step now. This may result in the failures that resulted in the end of the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u38	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to know the answer. That's exactly what it is, getting something positive out of it because it's a matter of great solidarity on the committee, as it were. A senator entered, and here at the council hall. There was nothing else to be heard during discussions earlier in the winter, and the subject has been very much discussed. I was wondering now, since it has to go over again that we're at least. many people wish that it might be extended and that consumption will be used without punishment. So the question is, is there something? The senator we can do to ensure that if you go to that job, the same situation will not come up again, that there is something in the system that says, "It won't work out? ' Now we're on welfare committees with the Ministry of Health, but can we direct the case to the Ministry, the Ministry of Justice, involved in this case? Would it be proper to have the second General Committee with us on the subject? Is there anything we can do to make sure that if the plot is now extended, it will return in the same vain land of the year? What does what? A senator of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u39	President. I understand, and this is something that I didn't know before we got this information on the welfare committee, that canceling punishment for the possession of consumer doses is entirely in the hands of a health minister. As a result, I think that what we can do is encourage a health minister to be prominent in this subject and start taking this step, especially since what has come from this work is clearly supportive of that project. All we members of the Parliament can do is give attention to and encourage the health minister. It's the only way I can see how this could work. It is now clear that this project is in the hands of a health minister, that I understand, if I handle it properly. This information came from the Ministry of Justice. It's pretty simple. As a minister of this matter, we encourage pressure and remind him that this is the will of the welfare committee, and hopefully more part of the council is wanted.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u40	Mr. President. I'm looking for President in this case. As a result of the financial minister's response to my inquiry last year on the basis of the rise in social security, the attorney sent a letter to the Council's Office for the Council's Office for the State of the Council for 69th.3 p.m. Act on social security and then the Office of the Ministry of Economics for financing. This year, the U.S. attorney general sent some questions to the Ministry of finance and specific information on this matter, and no answers have been received. Since then, an agent on three occasions repeated this request with letters dated March 26, April 26, and May 16. It's a long five months. There is no response from the Ministry of finance to the agent. That is why, dear President, I consult with you so that an agent may receive support from the council that the Ministry of finance responds to an agent so that disability workers will receive a clearer answer on the exact calculation of social security procedures and, hence, disability improvements. [[The president calls.]] I'm looking for help, Mr. President, at the council. There is pressure for the Ministry of Economics to respond to an agent in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u41	This request has been received by the president and will go for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u42	Mr. President. I want to come up here to celebrate and thank you. for good work in this case. I'm sorry it didn't go any further. I thought it would be very good to look at the time when alcohol consumption would finally be established here in Iceland, which is a very important form of decomposition for those whose feet are caught when it comes to drug abuse. This is a very important solution, and I really wanted to see the progress here. Likewise, I am very happy with the much solidarity and solidarity that existed. The welfare committee has shown in this case when it suggests, as indicated by the Committee, that under the Commission's discussion, the view was also made that the aim of consumer consumers would be best met if drug abuse were done without a penalty. The committee points out that it will not be easy to eliminate punishment for behavior that is generally illegal within a certain area based on a view of damage. According to one report, consumption is mainly intended as an option for those who are far - led to addiction, with little hope of quitting their consumption. Adherence to the disease is taking steps to recognize that these individuals are primarily suffering from disease. The Commission feels that there is good reason to consider whether there is a greater reason for legislation to go on meeting these individuals so that they will not be punished for this disease. Therefore, direct the committee to the health minister to work progressively to eliminate punishment for possession of doses of drugs. According to this above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be referred to the government. I want to first, and last, Halla Signý. Chairman of the Committee, Vilhjálmur? Árnason Halldóra Mogensen, for her work in this case but also whisk. Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Theðsson of Brjánsson Gamnson, Vilmi Ánson, Kristjánsdóttir Seynsja Kristjónskótir, Árnadóttir Kolbræðsson, Andrés Kristinsson Jónsson, and Guðnson, who all agree with this conclusion that I think it is very rich will of the council that it is the most important thing in the world that I find truly enjoyable - which I would not necessarily have hoped I would say in the year 2019 - because it is a very important step in which the principle is that most of the countries that the war against drugs, the war, the so called wars, is a war, and that it is not necessarily in the sense that it is against people who have suffered from this kind of drug abuse, in the world's. It has not been possible to stop the billions of drug dealers from doing their business and to use other illegal measures on their part. It is an enormous source of income and has not been able to reduce it, but it has increased. This decades - long ban has proved that the war against drugs has long been lost, and it has been lost from the beginning. The change in attitude I refer to, a respected president, is that, instead of the banning, penalties, the lawless, to what some prefer to call disease, while others prefer to call the events or association with society - the attitude toward it, and the response to it should not be to remove people from the community or to disassociate it further from the community, to punish it for things that some prefer not only have no control but instead of fantasizing humanity and resources that are bound to help those who cannot use their power to get back in life well, whether it wants to continue or not to stop. There's a ideological decomposition going on. I've been very happy to see at the swimsuit years how ideologies damage reduction, i.e. The idea of helping people where they are going to be able to do so is to work with a human spirit, to reduce, as much as possible the damage caused by consumption. It's the essence of a bill on consumption space. To that end, a much larger scale in our community is just the exact conclusion. health committees that the use of illegal drugs will become illegal doses of drug abuse. It doesn't work out, a respectable president, and that's why it's a very pleasant attitude, which I hope will appear to the Council immediately in the fall. For this reason, I wanted to say how enjoyable I feel about the discussion and the attitude toward people who use drugs, whether in the vein, as it were. This process of consumption is mainly focused on, the rights of the people to the best possible health, right to freedom and respect, has developed in the few years that Piratars have been living in the General Assembly of Iceland, i.e. in 2013, when recommendations were first made to examine whether drug abuse should be taken. I mean, a respectable president, we have come a long way to see how it would be best to stand up, what pros and cons are in finding and how we can best figure it out in our legal system. I would like to mention, for example, that there are many other alternatives to taking drugs, and they turn, for example. that our young people, who will be able in a much safer way to draw closer to information, assistance, and service. There is no need to be afraid that the police are quite no friend of them if they run at the time of drug abuse. We could start a much better wasteful program at music festivals and other places where young people are likely to make mistakes or get bad drugs for the use of drugs that make them necessary. This will reduce the fear that these young people will have in coming to police or ambulances for help, thus reducing the dangers they face or deciding to experiment, as they are sometimes told. It's one of many advantages, except that people who use drugs are also people, and as I came to the beginning of my speech, Mr. President, the war against drugs, as it has been called, a war against people, and it's lost. This is the first step in stopping this nonsense. It has brought us only one result - the misery and misery of those who suffer it. We see around the world that the drug law is particularly severe against social groups in general who are in a worse position, against minorities. We also see that the largest part of all who are imprisoned worldwide for drug crimes is imprisoned for drug possession and for nonviolence. We can also see that many cases of drug crime are judged considerably more severe, but considerably more violent crimes are known to me, i.e. Drug abuses that are not associated with any violence in any way or even with so - called carriers. They receive punishment that may be far - reaching, such as. The worst sexual offenders are given, and then we see that burden animals receive considerably greater punishment. I think it's an inheritance of the banning era that I really hope is near its end, and it fills me with optimism, a respectable president, to see the end. the welfare committee on this matter, see this far-sighted view of her, and see that one of our key issues in Pormissarism, criminal possession of drugs, has received such a sound foundation at the International Assembly of Iceland. Mr. President, I'm truly glad to hear that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u43	Mr. President. I'll take it from here. Because I am one of those who are writing under this committee opinion and to underline the support of the bill in question. As noted in other debates. However, members of the Parliament are the means by which they come to the council in such a way that they feel the need to do better. I think I can speak through most members of the committee that we certainly hope that the matter will soon return to the council so that we can arrange for this important matter to be settled. Sadly, when we discuss issues related to addiction, it has been far too foreign to view it as a problem not of the whole community, not of health problems, but of some private problem of individuals involved. That's not the way it is. Of course, the weightier and the most difficult it is for those involved, but it is truly society's attempt to react, and we certainly have, to form by this means, to try to help these individuals. The idea of these consumers is in the ground very good and can, at least, in some cases, leading to a simply getting an opportunity to get help, though later - even if this is not the goal of ingestion. Their objective is to recognize that this is part of a bigger challenge and to respond, as it were. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir came in earlier, with the damage caused by this process. I look forward to taking it back when it comes back to what it is. The welfare committee. It is a joy, as other members of the council have come up, that it seems to be an excellent agreement between all members of the council and the members of the council, that this is a matter that we should complete and resolve. I hope it's up to you at the Department of Health to get it over with.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u44	A respectable president. First, I want to celebrate the fact that this matter of consumption is being discussed, but it is not really possible to mention only the whole party of paint, you see. This is the case with growth that since the beginning of written history, probably for which mankind has used drugs, the most famous of which is probably alcohol, but alcohol is not the only drug mankind has ever learned. There are countless types of figs, mushrooms, various plants, and different types of plants. You can drink them, smoke them, and eat them. They can be consumed in various ways. For some reason, probably because alcohol has so rich and old history along history, the special exception in modern society is that alcohol is in some way not a drug or in some way not drugs or in some way not drugs. This view has been reflected in the legal environment at least in the so - called Western world, and although others were searched, almost everywhere if not exactly everywhere, that all drugs must be eradicated except alcohol. They will be eliminated by law enforcement and, at times, by direct warfare, by military helicopters in which armed individuals jump out of armed helicopters in so - called Cympanzees or hide - colored clothing and go and shoot people to control the spread and distribution of illicit drugs. This condition is sometimes called the drug war. In fact, much of the initiative of the United States during the last century, in the latter part up to 1970, 1972,1973, something like that was under way. It was at war with drugs, in English called ◯war on drugs, and it is having worse political ideas that have appeared in the century that otherwise was very rich with horrible ideas. Iceland is among those liberal democracies who have adopted this attitude, not exactly the war spirit of that group, rather than the inevitable, so that this problem should be solved by law enforcement, making sure that the good men who are cops reach the bad guys who are drug dealers. In the middle of a war, the drug addicts themselves have landed. They're in a very strange place, they're somehow both criminals and victims. This is a matter of law enforcement and health care to them. The internal contradiction has led the authorities to miss opportunities to help both the victims of the drugs themselves and the victims of the underworld, which have developed because of the legal situation, but also to miss opportunities to reduce the efforts taken by the authorities to reduce the freedom of the citizens. Now, the person being present is very proselytizing with freedom, and the more important, the person standing here feels very tired to listen to people talk about being free and in favor of freedom, but then, when it comes to ban something, there is always a point of banning, and when it comes to allowing it, it is always on the brakes against allowing. Freedom includes the ability to make mistakes. There is an interesting line from a song with the esteemed musician Björk Guðmundsdóttir who said: 'I thought I wish organize freedom, howow Scannavian of me.' The translation is: I thought I could plan my freedom, but Scandinavian by myself. It's a line I feel that Icelanders and Shinings could clean up. Freedom doesn't mean anything if we're going to have absolute security. Freedom means nothing if there's no absolute security to follow, nothing, then it's a meaningless concept. I think that understanding of that lack, especially among such countries as Icelanders, who have really few cultural issues, had to deal with extreme slavery when it comes to basic freedoms. It was indeed slavery, and then it was a long period of slavery, a form of slavery, but when it comes to freedom in Iceland, I generally feel like the independence of Iceland from Denmark rather than the freedom of an individual to conduct their brain function from their own home. Then all of a sudden, freedom has become extremely dangerous because we are at war with drugs and in war with the bad drug dealers and drug addicts, unfortunately, in spite of their alleged freedoms to become what the kain calls the cabolellal Ladyage. I simply don't know the English translation of the words, but it's the cost of sacrifice, let's say, some sort of cost of sacrifice. Of course, this issue is not all about it in the big context, but it is a consequence of that. A report, published by the health minister, is presented by the work group in which the person listed here is serving. The group was set up after a Congress resolution that was proposed by Congress party Porta some years ago, so this is clearly the best case, but it is in the context of the drinking space as an idea that has fallen to meet the population in trouble with drug abuse. At the same time, these groups are lawbreakers. They violate the law, technically not by taking drugs, that is strictly legal, but they have their high drugs while they consume them, so obviously they have to break the law. What's so interesting about the police forces in Iceland is that there will be another contradiction. Especially do I notice in interviews when I discuss drugs and either have a conversation with the police or the police will participate in that discussion. Then there is a contradiction. Somehow, it is both extremely important that consumption is illegal, that is extremely important, but it is always said that no one goes to prison, no one is punished for their own consumption. A respectable president. Why is this illegal if there is nothing to do with it? If consumers are not to be pursued, why should it be illegal to consume? There's no reason, it can't be. The fact is that we are still trapped in the contradiction that we are going to view it as health and law - enforcement that drug addicts are both victims and lawbreakers. The contradiction makes it impossible for us to help those who are having problems with their consumption to the extent that we have a responsibility to be responsible members of society and especially as lawmakers. Another thing that has been forgotten in this discussion all along, perhaps normal, but unfortunately, are drug users, who do not have problems with their consumption. I think that's where the contradiction actually comes from. I think people in general understand that people who are very much bored with a difficult addiction are the victims of their circumstances, that they have entered into situations they cannot get out of, that they cannot get help, and that they cannot cope with their own will in some way. Without wanting to go into all the medicine and philosophy behind addictions, that weird thing, I think the idea of an consumer smoking pot or snorkel cocaine, or something like that has no trouble with it, customs at work or school or whatever, has no problem with his family or friends, is an enemy of the community. I think it's the person the community is so angry at. They are drug addicts who have not earned the forgiveness of society by destroying their lives and even others. So I think that there's the contradiction and misunderstanding that we can have these legal issues and health issues at the same time, that drug addicts can be lawbreakers and victims at the same time. At some point, we need to start discussing it more seriously and in less contact with the fact that all drug addicts are automatically victims, just that drug users are not automatically involved in anything. It's none of society's business to have someone in their house snooky cocaine, or smoke pot or pot. It's none of society's business. I think the high Council isn't quite ready for that discussion, since the idea of freedom in Iceland is as crazy as I once described by a fine songwriter Björk Guðmundsdóttir. After all, we need to consider how we are going to view this freedom. Will we advocate freedom or not? We'll land there in the end. Happily, now we are in the place where we can focus only on those who are truly victims and those who, at least, want to help. Then it becomes clear how crazy they are to punish these people. It is obvious, and it takes nothing much more than just thinking about it in order to reach that conclusion unless you are directly against people who have problems and who want to harm people directly for their problems. I don't think that anger is actually directed toward that group in the community. I think it's directed against the group that gets away with using drugs, drugs other than alcohol. In fact, I'd like to say that there's a difference between religion. It is all right to be religious as long as it is the right religion. Otherwise, people are quite ready to accept the harmful practices of religion, and in the same way, people are quite ready to accept the harmful effects of drugs as long as they are not discussed with alcohol unless, of course, within the context that they can be used in moderation. Of course, selling it should be legal, of course, and obviously. Not everyone who uses alcohol, not everyone who uses alcohol, destroys their lives. Not everyone who drinks alcohol or loses his job is. But you know what, Mr. Honorable President? Some who drink alcohol destroy their lives, die, become addicted, destroy their family life, and work. There are a lot of people, actually, but for some reason it can never be associated with illegal drugs. It bothers me, a respectable president, to talk about alcohol and drugs. No, no, no, alcohol is as high as each other's. It's just as much drugs and as much drugs. If cocaine's a drug, alcohol is drugs. This cannot be made different, just as if we were going to call laslam religion or Judaism, we call Christianity. It is not possible to sort them out whether you will be able to enjoy them or not or practice them. This includes hypocrisy, a respectable president, not conscious, but hypocrisy. That is why I feel that it is worth people to wonder how they feel about the legal arrangements that put alcohol under the same hat as that. cannabis, which I know, is a much lower drug in the vast majority of themes. They're different and they're different, but if I think of the worst head I've ever known over my life, and compare it with the worst drunks I've ever met in my life, the comparison is very clear. I know exactly what I want to end up with, much less myself, or that people I care about get into. I'd much less like it to get drunk than when the comparison is pulled out, often it happens that people don't want to go into that comparison, obviously because they don't do the obvious hypocrisy that is part of current legislation and community attitudes, and the gift of drugs in general, the incredible hypocrisy, this incredible lack of understanding that people might want to use other drugs than those that have been used for the past millenniums in public and in written history, mostly. This is the only reason why alcohol is tolerated and the rest is not tolerated. It's the cultural status of alcohol, that's the only thing. Its cultural situation is the fact that rulers want to use alcohol. In the days of old, rulers understand the fun stories when they got a little too much into their toes and told funny stories and did something funny and stupid, thinking about it fondly. It was fun being drunk, I went out and hit on the wrong girl, and then some fun story comes out of it or whatever, and, of course, hurt stories sometimes. When it comes to illegal drugs, it is merely sad stories because rulers feel nothing important to smoke grass, they only feel that drinking alcohol is important, so alcohol is legal and not cannabis. This is the only reason why alcohol is legal and not cannabis, that is, cultural and historical in nature. I can't help calling this, a respectable president, because I think it's important for me to hear a piece of music when the opportunity arises. This case, like more people, for example. the important thing that I hope to show up as soon as possible from the highest level. Health Ministers to stop punishing drug addicts, all are in context of society's basic attitudes and legislators'view of freedom and how they view people who use drugs that are not traditional in Icelandic society and what their attitude toward people who then suffer. I'm not going to extend this discussion to the moment, but I'm really happy that this case has come up again, and I'm looking forward to having more and more of that stuff out there. Councilmen to take an active part in the discussion. I know it's not always fun, and it's not necessarily that you can discuss it, i.e. It is not necessarily possible for members of the council to see fit to say things that are relatively obvious when it comes to e.g. freedom and the difference in the harmful use of drugs. Finally, I mention that there are so - called dipololeic pathways, and then it doesn't make any sense to say things like that, and it's interesting to say in a rather technical way that the legislation is not designed with regard to how harmful the drug is. I say this, and there's no one shaking his head, no one who's down, no one may just have to digest the phrase, but if I say that alcohol is much more dangerous than any illegal drug, people get slights. Actually, I was saying exactly the same thing. That's the debate I think it is. Congress officials fear and that society is not necessarily ready, but in my opinion it is, it is very clearly so. I refer to the research on these substances to support them. As I foretold a few lengths ago, I did not intend to extend the discussion, and I will try to deal with it from here, but I rejoice over the matter and look forward to having more people in the same direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u45	Mr. President. I had no intention of giving a what. paritaprevir However, the Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson responded to a comment he made in a talk earlier encouraged me to consider the history of the doctrine. Hv. A senator argues, and I agree, for the reason that alcohol has a completely different position, while other substances are certainly cultural relationships, and that is because the Western powers are a little alcohol. This is a very simple explanation of why alcohol is completely different from other substances. On the other hand, the history of the drug war and the prohibitions have quite a variety of aspects that I wanted to go on or as far as I can get in the nine minutes that I have left, a respectable president, of this speech. Sure, like a dog. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son has been entering just a few thousand years ago, and the human family has made a powerful subject for thousands of years. Antidotes such as opiates, cocas, cannabis, khat, peyote, betels, and kava have been used for all kinds of purposes throughout this millennium. Humans have even These are medical material, for religious purposes, for nourishment as well as for recreation. Thus, when you look at this long history of drug abuse, you can look at international attempts to ban culture, production, drug distribution, and drug abuse as a predictor. The 20th century was born of the ban, and this was partly due to a dramatic increase in international exchange and transport of drugs. The harmful effects of excessive consumption became more prominent in the community. It is quite simple, however, to argue that this is the only reason for the international law on the use of drugs on earth today. The world 100 years ago was not so different from the world we experience today, for just as it was now, so the world is governed by the commercial interests of the most powerful nations. Indeed, the development and development of an international ban against drugs is a powerful testimony. In the 19th century, people from all walks of life partaked of coca and opioids, e.g. correspondent in Canada and the United States, Europe, and Australia The substances were consumed in a variety of ways, mainly as painkillers or as sedatives. Little or no control of the consumption of substances, whether by the hands of doctors or by the state. The public opinion was that drug abuse was the choice of individuals, as if society did not look down on those who did. However, little was known about the mechanism of substance use, so people often became dependent on or used in moderation. Thus, in general women, mostly housewives, were dependent on opiates or cocaine, or those who worked in the medical sector. At that time, opioids were also widespread in China and its neighboring countries. Throughout history, the Chinese had been partaking of opiates as part of rituals, holidays, and cannibalism. Opium was also used as an analgesic for chronic or chronic diseases. Most homes had opiates in their pain cabinets, where it was used as medicine for various diseases. Although opioid consumption was very common in China, it was rare for people to become addicted to the material, and in general the Chinese opioids were responsible and moderately consumed, thus not causing adverse health effects or long life to a greater part of consumers. The public opinion, however, would change dramatically, both in China and in Western lands. Some 50 years before the 1900's, however, huge migrations from China to Europe, Canada, the United States, and Australia began. It is estimated that during this period some 2 million Chinese have been transferred to the West as cheap labor force. Their arrival played a major role in changing the Western view of drugs. There was widespread hostility and racism among Chinese immigrants on the west side of the ocean, and their opiate smoking became a major concern. Thus, opiate smoking became a threat. They were called a Chinese plague that led to immorality, increase in lawbreakers, and social decay. These obvious racist and prejudices are believed to have caused many countries for the first time to establish drug - abuse laws, especially those of foreigners with opioid smoking. In China, there was a reversal of views about opiate intake for reasons other than bone - related reasons. The Chinese ruling class considered an enormous supply of opiates and the problems associated with its consumption to be a testimony to the unsurpassed intervention of the Western powers. China had been pressured into opioid trades with the British after they conquered the former in the opioid wars, 1839 verses1842 and 18563/41860, and to finish the first war, the Chinese government had to sign the Nanking Treaty, with the British Empire taking full control over Hong Kong. It was then mainly from where the British sailed with millions of Chinese to use as cheap labor in Western lands. The Nanking Treaty forced the Chinese government to open trades with the British in several port cities of China, while the British used these terms, including to move there an excessive amount of opiates from India. So it was a mixture of rasism and a desire for moral reform that led to the Western world's introduction to the international government of opioid trade in the late 1800's. The Chinese, on the other hand, considered international government necessary to combat their forced trade with the British Empire. The United States and China were the countries that fought the most to ban and punish world drugs. In 1925 their officers went out of the Opium Conference, where they felt that there would be too little chance that the conference's arrival would result in enough strict restrictions on business. As the United States tried its utmost to establish an international prohibition on alcohol and other drugs, the former colony - eutrophication of their production made it worse. The old colonies had vast breeding countries in their colonies and monopolized a very lucrative market for opiates in Asia. They also saw medical markets in Europe and the United States for cocaine, opiates, heroin, and morphine, but the demand for cocaine had increased dramatically in Europe during World War I. It was used as a drug of sleep and mental activity and to help soldiers cope with the psychological consequences of the horrors associated with bullet warfare. Drug companies in Germany, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom went for all they could buy from cocaine during the war. The United States had quite a different moral and life - style than old colonies, and thus, during the interwar period, there was considerable opposition to the true Puritan attitude that existed among the American leaders. The United States banned alcohol and other drugs in their efforts to lead a totally harmless life here on earth, as it was said, but the European authorities still did not listen. During the period when the U.S. government again allowed the production and consumption of alcohol, U.S. countries tried to establish a global ban on other drugs. Of course, this campaign was not merely based on religiousistism and Christian ideologies but had important national interests to guard by well - advertised campaigns against opioid international trades. There they saw an opportunity to reduce the huge profits of the old colonies. Another incentive for U.S. policy was that they wanted to favor Chinese governments in order to expand business between the two countries. As early as the first years of Prohibition in the United States, there was an explosion in organized crime. Politicians, policemen, and criminals often saw a high - risk game in order to make a wonderful profit on a new black market with alcohol. Leaders in Europe were far from convinced that they would adopt the same prohibition policy when stories were received from the United States that mobs and other criminal organizations would have taken control of cities west of the sea. Thus, the United States could not negotiate international bans until after World War II, when the United States just had enough power to push its goal in an drug - free world. This is just a very short review of the first steps in the history of the banning policy. The ban on alcohol was on a population for a relatively short time in the United States, but when it ended, it was noted that the exact same system was tailored to the prohibition of drugs unless it was a good deal better to export it, with economic pressure, and with threats of violence on the part of the United States, but perhaps, in fact, their ban on the Puritanian side against alcohol. For example, there are many explanations and reports of why it did better back then, probably because the United States survived as winners in World War II and had a profound effect thereafter. War against drugs has always been a very convenient goal for the United States because it is a struggle with an invisible enemy. He never dies, and it is very easy to bring him up when he is upset by the State's greater authority over its citizens.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u46	Mr. President. This commission with a change in proposal has arrived after the 2nd. it was a matter called a change in the laws on loyalty and pollution, the handling of wastes and the handling of fires, and protection against natural fires, etc. Redirected to w. The Environment and Transport Committee for specific information that had come from the European Union. This is where I recognize this committee party and the adjustment proposal that comes in to the 3rd. The committee has again discussed the matter after 2rd. The committee was informed that the change expected by the bill, that a large day's work will be done by a member of the local community rather than by a health care provider, may be difficult to perform. This is because most health - care committees have been initiated in cooperation with a number of rural communities, so the new arrangement could enhance the level of misunderstandings. The committee agrees with these views, stating that the bill does not provide specific support for the changed arrangement. It is not clear, then, why the change is needed and how this might affect the health - care committees, but the committee suggests that the bill will still be agreed with the following changes, that we at 16. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. a. Instead of the word "U.S.A.P.A.'s 5th staff members, they come to visit: the operator of a health care provider. b. The 6th Subject will be removed. That's what it was like. Councilmen Karl Hjaltason Einar and Bergþór Ólason were absent at the deportation, and Resa Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bjornóllfótsdótir was absent at the desk as well, but they are signed under the authority of 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under this signature, plus her husband, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Linika Sævarsdóttir Savarsdótir, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörfótir, Sigmiur Ah. Andersen and Vilhjálmur Árnason, why. Senators. Mr. President. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u47	A respectable president. I'm making a motion for the discussion, i.e. The bill to correct the processing of personal information into the police's purpose. These are small adjustments for corrective action, ensuring compliance with the wording of the directive and clarity. Change is made in two parts. 1st Following the word "students" to the first question, 2 mg. 18th par. Come on. 2. C Company 1.mg. Twenty-two. Words such as: sort of recipients who have received or will receive the personal information, including Residents in third countries or international organisations. So many were words.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u48	President. I recommend a change from a management and monitoring committee to the bill to correct the change of information law, with subsequent changes (expecting range etc.) Since we add the root text to the information code today, i.e. these words: As soon as possible. So it is in the law as it is today. The bill was saying 15. A new law, adding a 150-day target, i.e. that the Enlightenment Committee on Information would normally no longer be doing its affairs more than 150 days. Today, more than that, some go to 180, even up to 220 days. The upper limit is being set, limited to 150 days of work, but we were told that the words: "As soon as possible, they would have fallen out if we had done this. So we're adding them here, because the principle in administrative law is like that. In order to explain this also in the information legislation, so that when the citizens or the media are reading through the information laws, it is quite clear that the ruling committee on information matters is going to pay the charges to it as soon as possible, the end will be subject to Article 15. is said, by permission of the president: The decision-making committee on information matters should be published to the person requesting access to data and to the person addressed as soon as possible but usually within 150 days of its reception. As I told you before, this transition is made from everyone on the board of administration and monitoring committees who agree.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u49	Mr. President. This is about a number of special matters in that they are based on ideas that are very old during the discussion here, without being updated in line with the changes that have been made and what have been evident in the community in the meantime. I just want to use this opportunity in a very short talk to encourage that this matter will be examined with the goal of fulfilling its purpose. To this end, I feel that there are a lot of things that have come during the last year and years rather than simply to finish a case simply on the grounds that it is so old that it is time to finish it, it is much wiser to use the information that has been presented in the meantime to work things out better and to make it better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u50	A respectable president. I bring here an adjustment proposal for a bill for the security of network and information systems important to the 3rd Environment. This is what I do as an executive of the case, but there are two changes in legality. On the one hand, there is a change in the requirement of the taking of value, and with the change the plan is that the law be made clearer and obliged a minister to carry out the duties required to be clearer as well as to make the declaration of the law clearer. I just read this change: ▪ Despite the regulations of 29 C.E. shall be a minister in advance of September 1st, 2020 of the operator's record of needed services, in accordance with Article 3. The Minister's required. However: ◯4. Adding to this is the provision of a provisional arrangement: Despite the regulations of 29 C.E. Ministers should start work on network and information policy based on Article 1. Section 4. ..using Network Security Council in accordance with 2 mg. 4. gt.st............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. However, there is a suggestion for a change in 23rd paragraph. due to repetition of the bill. When the bill was read over, it revealed that there were two points that proved unnecessary. I reiterate that the changes are legal and do not alter the subject of the bill or other aspects of the changes made by the Committee. I suggest the proposal be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u51	A respectable president. This is a fine example of the fact that we have to complete a Senate resolution that was approved in 2015 for computerized documents, as this is just 2 mg. Twenty-nine. falling away, but in the original bill, the articles will only be reached in 27. There are some adjustments that came between the 1st and the 2nd. and I remember that they add articles. And then I don't know what 29 is now and who's 2 mg. If the connection is established, the connection will be disabled. When we receive such a change in the process so late, we in general do not know what is being discussed. This lack of context, and in general, we need to do it better. I'd appreciate it if a vehicle only realized exactly what 2 mg was. Twenty-nine. If the connection is established, the connection will be disabled. I have no idea, despite my being on the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Twenty-nine. it's about how it works. It's legal. Like I said, there's a fourth. It should be noted that a minister should correctly publish a registry of operators of necessary services and, on the other hand, pursue network and information security policies and appoint Internet security advice. This will be done both for the implementation of the bill, so in the review of the Commission's proposal, it was repeated that although the execution was delayed, these articles held their value. In effect, these two articles are being adjusted. Or perhaps it can be said that the bill is being divided and explained.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u53	A respectable president. Then I'm gonna assume it's from 26. in the bill that was about validation and 2nd. is that it should be set in paragraph 4. Even if it should be received in force, it will be replaced by something else. I guess it's at that place right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u54	A respectable president. I recommend to the Committee on Environment and Transport with a return proposal for traffic laws. The 2nd. suggested that bicycle - related helmets become 18 years old. That proposal was given considerable publicity, and some comments were made. We took the matter back to the environment and transportation committee for further discussion and after reviewing the views in this matter, both extending and extending the helmet obligations to 18 years of age, and not having it, the committee concluded that it was the right thing to suggest that the helmet duty should be targeted at primary school. Children who go to high school need bicycle helmets. This obligation is important to all organization in the school work, and all agree on the importance of helmet use. What makes this matter difficult, taking the final position on what is right to achieve the goals we all agree on - all agree on the goals, but this is about the means to reach them. The aim is to increase traffic safety and ensure public health and environmental travel. These are the goals that everyone agrees on is the best way to reach. Sadly, we just don't have enough data to make the final decision on what is the right way. What's the helmet use? What are the benefits of wearing helmets? What are the consequences of wearing helmets and other forms of bicycle riding? The transport sector is growing, and we have put money on a transport program, and the road plans set the priority for financial management, the localities setting priorities for money on growing bicycles, increasing cycling, and so forth. This is a growing transport. Therefore, it is very important to gather information on this transport process, both about the use of helmets and other information that can increase traffic safety, increase the safety of cycle riding so that we can drive and make it easier, and encourage the use of transport in the country. We call in very clear terms that data collections are going to benefit these views and to achieve these objectives, the targeted data collection programme at the European Commission and the Community Association, the Road program, and the rest of the involved. So we suggest that while we do not have any further evidence to build a 15 - year - old helmet duty, out of the child's basic schooling to make sure that there will be a certain harmony. In this regard, I want to point out that the law won't take effect until next year so that if there's some conclusive evidence at that time, we'll have time to revise it. Otherwise, this will apply until we find out something else is better. So I suggest that these adjustments be treated by the council and agreed on as it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u55	A respectable president. Until there's another better way to find it, so the carrier says it. As shown in the introduction, evidence lacks, but changes are made and data will be collected afterwards. I don't know if there should be a confirmation of this conclusion or whether it should be resolved if the data say otherwise. It was noted on the committee that there is a measure of bail for those 15 years of age and older when the person becomes acquitted. I felt that there was evidence that the 18 - year - old was called back. Yet, it was left behind for 16 years despite any doubt as to whether insurance companies would take it into account or not. We do not know if it is done or not. There was a sleigh, but there are no data on or off, whether the individual without a helmet loses insurance or something like that. I've got to make a note to do this work, make a decision first, and then gather some data. Although the value level is not until six months, it takes time to collect data. I've been working in science, and I know it takes time and, quite definitely, more than six months to get as powerful an argument as it has been asked in this case, the other way, to cut off your helmet duty. There is no comment on which other methods are possible to achieve the same security goal as provided. [[The president calls.]] There are other ways, but not even some of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u56	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this, for I was just going to install the insurance in my story talk. I've investigated it, and there's absolutely clear evidence and a court order that in order to minimize insurance, the individual needs to act in a way that is unscrupulous. The fact that a 16 - year - old boy does not use bicycle helmets will not be long considered recklessly, there we can look at a court case regarding belt use, speed driving, and so on. I can tell you what. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson says that this is a point we need not worry about. I've investigated it, and I've made contact with insurance companies, whether my understanding is correct, and that's what they said. Regarding the gathering of information, this case was handled, and a bill for traffic law was always referred to in the Committee as a guide in school. There was a point that we discussed that was an obvious problem to deal with, that there was no relationship between school at the time, who would need to use helmets, and who would not. Everyone agreed that the use of helmets was important. The discussion around the views that involved how the helmet duty might have been linked to the colleges, but rather to those over 18 years of age who have a car test and who have more transportation skills to choose. I believe we are going a very cautious way here to achieve harmonization to increase traffic security and ensure cultural change that a helmet is a safety device like a safety belt.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u57	A respectable president. That the helmet is a safety device that applies to the belts, that means the probable fines, etc. as time goes by if it should be comparable. What I believe is lacking in this matter is a universal discussion. Everyone agreed on the problem, there's a problem with the 10th grade that isn't related, but that doesn't necessarily mean that the solution is putting an obligation on the 10th grade. There was no comment on any other solutions, just that we would set this obligation on, regardless of its implications, affect other public health goals, and increase in traffic security. In other studies, whether helmets or not, the safety of bicycle riders is usually enhanced by more bicycle ride. It's good to get it said in a speech that doesn't affect your insurance load. So it's the evidence that's already presented in Congress documents and should stand as such. Other than that, my criticism was that there was only one way to achieve this harmony, and there was a helmet duty. There was nothing else, even between 1 and 2. the proposal came up for 18 years just in the end. There was never a discussion on duty up to 18 years of age, nor was there a talk about 16 years of age. I was at the committee meetings, and I thought I'd be honest with this conclusion if the data strengthened it, but then the proposal came 18 years, which was backed up, which is really nice. Other routes were not considered adequately.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u58	A respectable president. I feel a little deep in this year to say that other routes have not been considered. Then I'd like to point out that the traffic laws we're changing now have been valid since 1987, so it's been totally liberal with a helmet family of 15 years and older. [[Up front.]] This discussion has been extensive, and it has often been found whether to extend the helmet duty. If this is still the problem now, it shows that there are no other ways to find. Maybe that's what we just did. The committee felt that it would be right to be careful and achieve this pattern for the elementary school because there is an enormously important factor at the same time that data will be collected. At this point, we will see if this has any positive effects or if time will be used to find other ways. We have traffic laws and traffic security, one of the main issues. I think we're just being careful that we're moderate in our efforts to achieve our goals in the best possible way. I'd like to point out that those who complained the most about their helmet duty felt that it would reduce bicycle riding. But it is not until 17 years of age that no one is driving a car so that first, at that age, we are competing with other methods of transportation. I think we're gonna be careful here, and I think it's time to agree this way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u59	Mr. President. I recommend an adjustment to a bill for a traffic law facing 2 mg. Fifty. The law. So that's: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. At 2 mg. Fifty. add-on to a new case, as follows: Addiction and drug testing or drugs 1st mg, sr. 6 mg. Forty-eight. g., in the urine of a driver, it is forbidden to operate a vehicle. Second: ▪2. It's over a hundred and fifty. ● 1 mg/m2 Ninety-five. and 1st, 5 and 7 mg. 101st par. Come: 1. mgr., 1st paragraph. 2. mg, 3 or 4 mg. Fifty. gt. and a half, let's go. Nice reading, and I promise I won't repeat it again. In current traffic laws, 2 mg. 45. g. a: In the blood or urine of a driver, addiction and drugs are considered to be under the influence of addictive and illicit drugs and to be unable to operate vehicles. This has been criticized by the fact that drugs are measured only in urine but not in blood, it is clear that the driver has taken drugs but is no longer under their influence. Therefore, it should not be legally asserted that he is under influence and should not be taken out of the driver's rights. The adjustment suggests that a driver who is in such a position to test drugs in his urine is forbidden to drive a vehicle, but it does not mean that he is unsatisfactory. The fact is, he has taken drugs in his urine so recently that they are measured in his urine. Although they may no longer be measured in the blood, it is not expected that a driver could have measured it himself. So he has taken the risk of driving. That kind of risk management is forbidden by traffic laws, regardless of whether the damage has been done on a single occasion. An example is a drunk driver who leaves his car at the end of his car. He will be punished, and even if his driving is not damaged, he will be removed from the driver's rights. The same could be said of speeding, though there was no accident. A speed - moving driver will be fined, even though he has returned home without incident. He simply took risks that he did not own an example of. To do so, you try to keep traffic in check. With the same reasoning, the lawgiver does not send the message that those who have taken drugs so recently still present their urine can take the risk of sitting behind the wheel. If someone feels that this is unfair to those drivers, it is proper to remember that they can avoid getting into that position by not taking drugs. They only need to respect drugs, and then it's not a problem. If the bill is approved, it will be opened to the number of people who have recently taken drugs, who think that it must escape, just in the urine. So 2 mg is suggested. Fifty. traffic laws are spoken in the way I listed them at the outset, and now they say: We do. 2 mg Fifty. add-on to a new case, as follows: Addiction and drug testing or drugs 1st mg, sr. 6 mg. Forty-eight. g., in the urine of a driver, it is forbidden to operate a vehicle.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u60	A respectable president. I don't expect to hear it. A senator is directly in favor of punishment for offenses that they have not committed. The suggestion as a man. A senator of criticism is a product of a medical report and an examination made by a health minister of my own staff. It is not clear that urinary degradation products alone cannot determine whether the person is on drugs during driving. Now it's really easy to handle. A senator simply saying that people don't use drugs, but in this way, it's only in free society that people can do it at home, in their own private life. For by this speech I eagerly expect it to be. A senator is opposed to drug abuse, as I believe, should be without punishment. On the other hand, even if people want to punish people for drug abuse, which on its own is a prerogative view, I simply don't understand how they can be treated in favor of a crime that is not to be punished. The bill specified that you will follow a blood test, which is also not a perfect standard but much better. It works to measure what is in the driver's blood. It is not the urine that goes through the brain of a driver when he is driving, it is blood, and it is in the blood that substances affect the driver's brain function and thus his ability to operate a vehicle. I wondered, " How in the hell am I doing? ' A senator would prefer a worse standard, offering to punish innocent people for offenses that they have not committed instead of having better standards, such as the bill, which works better and is a more grammatical and almost the same goal, which is to punish for the use of drugs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u61	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for the counter-sponsore. I don't think the senator understands to some extent. This is exactly what they are being suggested to be in harmony with what they are doing. A senator said that he would punish people for offenses they did not commit. This adjustment is just in effect suggested that it be broken, just to be clear if there was something that could be misunderstood. This change also suggests that both criteria will be used as yet, i.e. both blood and urine tests - whatever flows through your brain on a daily basis. This is really much closer to the present arrangement. What's right here is that there's a law against saying it's under influence. That's the very thing that was criticized. These two reports are being proposed to bring the project closer to the present level than is proposed in the bill. The natural key, however, is that driving drivers are not being suggested to be punished for offenses that they did not commit because that is exactly what they are suggesting would be a fraction of drugs in either blood or urine.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u62	A respectable president. My criticism is at the point. A senator proposes having the arrangement just the way it is. It seems that it is in the process of making changes to punish people for wrongdoing that they have not committed. In the United States, court cases where someone was seized with a breakdown product of drugs in the urine have been brought to the highest court, and the person was convicted of substance abuse, despite the undisputed nature of the prosecution and all that the person had not been affected by drugs while driving the vehicle. If people want to punish for their drug abuse alone, people will come and say it and argue a ridiculous view. Punishing people for drugs that simply haven't controlled vehicles under the influence of drugs is a precarious nonsense. It is, in effect, a violation of human rights. It is human right not to judge for offenses they have not committed. And I'm talking about a case in which it is undisputed that the daily fraction called drug driving has not been committed. Rather, it is expressed as a legal definition of breaking into urine, something well - known and recognized everywhere that is not enough. Hv. So a senator is certain to suggest that people will be judged for offenses they have not committed, by a legal outback, the ones that have been in the law so far, and that they have rightly been criticized because it involves human rights violations and includes making people guilty of crimes they have not committed. It's wrong, it's immoral, I strongly protest and challenge it. A senator trying to retract this ridiculous proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u63	Mr. President. I will remain here to avoid saying everything about my mind regarding other adjustments. [[Up front.]] I think it's a matter of reason. paritaprevir I'm sure the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson won't get along. It's just that way. I have not had a discussion that the arrangement that has been taken for a long time in these matters has been defined as a violation of human rights. There's a new discussion to my ears.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u64	I can see that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u65	Yes, that's what you're saying. Supreme Court, in that case. A senator referred to, I do not know the subject, of course judge by the law, and the laws of the land are what they are. They're being suggested to be changed in a certain way and I'm suggesting that men approach the earth carefully in relation to this particular point. It's like this is looking at me. Hv. A senator is free to believe that my proposal is ridiculous, stupid, and so forth. I'm not going to sleep at all over the Senator's position, but I don't think there's much chance that we'll make it. I just reiterate that here I am suggesting that the project be done in a similar way as it has been, to say that the driver is no longer under the influence. But it is kept in that it is forbidden to drive a vehicle to detect drugs either in urine or in blood. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u66	The President's right at what. Councilmen speaking to other members of Congress, rather than using the word you or him or her.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u67	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u68	That apology is accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u69	Mr. President. I didn't have a chance to come here at 2nd. When the traffic law was discussed, I'm going to discuss the traffic laws that are being discussed here, i.e. A bill to traffic law. I'm not gonna waste a lot of time on it, just skimming over it. I want to thank you for a good job on the Committee for the first thing. When I first saw the changes the bill contained, I found things that I wasn't happy about. However, in the case of the committee, many things were better, but not all of them can be said. Perhaps I'll look at it a little bit in this speech. Before I begin, Mr. President, I am very sorry to see these laws changed at all because you are becoming rather fond of the old traffic laws after working on them all the streets since they were put in place, i.e. Law No. 50/1987, and that's what they're sorry for now, and some articles are changing, so you're probably going to have to memorize all of this again. Of course, from that point on, it was a long time ago necessary to bring changes to the traffic laws, very many and varied, and in the case of the committee, many things changed that I was unhappy with. Let me mention your helmet use. I'm happy with the change that comes in there at the last minute, i.e. to continue at 15 years of age, not to be put into some deep area where we don't know where to end up taking out this age group of 15-year-old; not to put this group at risk on insurance benefits in the event of an accident and to be considered to have violated traffic laws. Of course, they need to be examined more carefully before they go into such activities. If this reduces cycle riding, then it's also extremely bad. I'm pleased that the tray was down for 15 years, and I'm fine with that. I'm going to mention a few things that I'm not yet satisfied with, although most of these changes are very good. First, I'm going to mention this adjustment proposal that came in today, i.e. ... fromwhat. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason. It's about driving under the influence of narcotics and drugs, which have been kind of an elbow child in law because it's being punished. Addiction or drugs, mainly cannabis, have been punishable in the urine for weeks after smoking cannabis. I have always found it different to be punishing people who are truly not fit to drive just because their metabolites are measured in the urine, perhaps weeks after taking cannabis. I don't think it's fair and wrong, and it's the right thing for a man whose driver is irrelevant. That's been my opinion over the years. Suggested what? paritaprevir This is what the son of Bergþór Ólafsson is all about, she was just coming today, that police are allowed to stop driving those who are measured by urinary metabolites, such as. cannabis, who will be the most common, I think, but it's harmless, it's just to stop the car. If the police stop the driver and he returns the urine, and some kind of degradation is measured in a sample that is just temporary, driving is stopped because people do not know the final outcome. Then it will take weeks for the final results to be taken in such a sample. So, of course, if this happens, you do not risk driving. Well, the motion goes out, if I get it right, to give the police warrants to stop the driving. The results of these measurements are later obtained after samples have been taken. I'm going to mention 52nd. the visit of a doctor or nurse who was on the bill and was changed after the Medical Association had protested. The clinical evaluation of the driver should now be performed by a qualified healthcare professional. I'm, I think, okay with this, end up hiding someone who doesn't have a clinical education to provide such an assessment of a driver. About 64. par.: It also made a comment on the medical community. That law was taken from the bill. I'm talking about a spontaneous doctor if they notice that someone with a driving test is not qualified for his job. The medical company felt unable that as soon as the patient walked out of his office, the doctor would need to call the authorities and report that there will be an unsatisfactory driver. Of course, it would cause a great degree of confidentiality between doctors and their patients, and it may be that patients would simply not show up to the doctor if they felt that they were there on the line, and a doctor would pick up the phone as soon as they left the clinic. It's been canceled, so I'm happy about it. Third, drive under the influence of medicines used in the 50th chapter of a new cycle. It's good to put it better, but I only mention it here that, of course, it's something that could take years to develop in the job of the prosecution and the police how it's going to prove it. There are many drug classes, all kinds of drugs that have various kinds of activity, which are not controversial, so I think that there may be riding on a line that we don't know how deep it is. Of course, the initial steps involved are to improve. About 62. g., about driving tractors, including, I'd like to mention that there's a certain problem that's still unsolved and is not being solved in this bill, i.e. When using tractors in the same way as freight cars, there are rear cars that take large amounts of materials and are not placed under the same hat as freight cars, for both opinions and other purposes. The only thing the committee does is actually direct it to the minister to consider this, as the committee puts it: In view of traffic security, then, the Commission aims to review the requirements for driving rights to motor vehicles who are involved in non-translational agricultural activities. This problem is not being addressed. I would have preferred that the committee have tried to solve this problem, which is urgent in many parts of the country, i.e. They are competing with trucks of product that have to take care of completely different requirements than those tractors. There's a problem that's unsolved. With respect to police traffic control, I am glad that the committee had failed to dismiss a warrant to hide others from the police on this road check. This document was removed by the Committee, and I am pleased with it and want to do so. With regard to objective responsibility in 94 st. Of course, I'm thrilled that they also published the same thing and spoke a lot about it on the committee. We need to get to the ground with caution if we are going to blame the owners of cars when they are certainly not breaking off, i.e. When they lend the car - it can be a driver of a rental car, a company worker, or just some other family member who drives too fast past a speed camera and the jar is sent to the owner. He's given the responsibility, all of it. It's very convenient if it could be like this, then the collects, of course, go well. They know exactly where to look, but the owner pays off the bottle, though it is not a cause and it has not been a cause for many times and seasons. We need to find another way to solve this problem, e.g. For perpetuation. Then it comes up right away: Who should be charged if the car cannot be taken and the owner is charged because we never know who is driving each time? This is an unsolved problem, but I'm glad it was removed from the original bill. Another thing I'm going to mention, time flies, is 5 mg. 52. g. There is a law that is very strange, with permission of the president: A traveling overseer is forbidden to drink alcohol or other stimulating or sedating substances for six hours after driving if a police investigation might be expected to take place because of driving. I really don't understand this kind of lyrics. It's harmless, but a driver who goes through a car won't drink alcohol or other drugs after driving is finished, in the event that an investigation is possible. This is very strange. It's criminal. What, then, if men break this, what will they do? What, then, will they do? Will they be ashamed? It's completely unnecessary, Mr. President. Will they spank them or what to do? Is this just a general manual? Be nice. I don't understand this law at all, at all. I'd like to see it leave the bill, and it doesn't mean anything. Then it's 101st. ... thatI'dwanttoseechange. It contains a set of instructions for drivers who violate the rules regarding drivers' driving and resting time. This is a group of drivers driving cars or large vehicles. If he violates these criteria for driving and resting, the penalty is very different from that of many other categories because he may be removed if he breaks these measures more than twice. I pointed out on the committee that I thought this was unnatural. There would be many other violations, traffic violations, such as punishment; it would seem unnatural to take them out. It's a professional rights. I'd like to see it go out, or at least. will revise the effects in many other cases, but only this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u70	A respectable president. It's a matter of course. A senator's suggestion for my helmet duty to the age of 18 would have been retracted, but that is not entirely correct. She was turned to 16 instead of to 18. Despite all of this, changes in helmet duty were made between the 2nd and 3rd. Then I'd like to ask you what. Regarding the urine test procedure, the senator: Is urine tests on the street to stop driving?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u71	Mr. President. My helmet changed, I think more than once, from the original bill. I was now declaring that I was pleased with the conclusion that it is now, i.e. That, in view of those under 16 years of age, if I have the right to do so. I think I've noticed very well at my last committee meeting. I am happy about this and was just expressing my opinion of why. A senator. Thank you. To question Björn Leví the son of Gunnarsson. Then he was talking about a urine sample. He asked if they were taken on the street. I can tell you what. A senator that is done in some cases, yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u72	A respectable president. It was shown in the case of the head of the Committee on Environment and Transport that he had passed the insurance obligations of those who are already accused of being 16 years old and that there was no risk to the age group as a matter of concern. A senator tore up his speech earlier. I wonder what. A senator agrees with me that this was -- Yes, it's been shown in a Senate speech that this is the case. But I would have liked to have it in my hands, in writing from the specialists or those who are capable of putting it on paper, instead of in a debate. However, it is a responsibility to present it in a debate as a claim to whether or not to do so. And if any. A senator was concerned about his insurance guarantee at the age of 18, and she is still up to 16. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur's Árnason of the Year before he answers, if he's holding it, and if he strikes them, they'll worry. A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u73	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the questions. You're absolutely right, there was a layman, boy. Vilhjálmur Will, Árnason's son, expressed confidence that this would not affect him. This, as well as the exercise of helmet duty, whether the provision intended would reduce or beat the increase in bicycle riding, would it not be good to leave that route until all factors have been further investigated, as well as the possible effects on insurance benefits, personal risks, or so on? I'm not saying that it is, but I believe that if they are given any indication of possible consequences, they should be very careful on earth. That's why I mentioned it. So I welcome it. Regarding your urine, I'm going to finish it, that's the way you propose it. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason's son that it is really only being granted permission to stop the driving. It's criminal. So if it means in your urine, which may be at a police station or out of the road, the person is not allowed to continue. This has been carried out, but there's a warrant for the police, without crime until the result of a thorough investigation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u74	A respectable president. A little more coverage of the helmet family, since we separated her before we heard her. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason. There are other things in this decision that I think are lacking. It is mainly an analysis of the current situation. According to the information available to me at the National Bicyclist Association, the use of helmets is generally very good in Iceland. In contrast with other countries where helmet ties have been adopted and helmet usage may be greatly increased following helmet obligations, this is not necessarily the case in the current situation in Iceland where helmet use is relatively widespread. But as I mentioned earlier, the situation is relatively vague. The evidence we received is not so clear that we could appreciate the effect of taking on a helmet duty. There is no predictor of present positions, saying that helmet duty increases helmet use to a specific reference. There is no special goal in this helmet duty. It just seems to be a political decision that is not based on evidence. I don't like it because there's evidence on that too, e.g. But from New Zealand, when you take up your helmet duty, the use of bicycling is somewhat reduced, which weighs against the other aims of setting this law. So there's two poles at it. The Commission certainly suggests that data should be collected on the outcome or the impact of this, the situation in Iceland, the effect of this action. However, there would be a collection of data after that, and then a decision would be being adjusted afterwards. If this were to be fixed for the New Year's Day execution of the law, it would be a bill that would appear relatively late, arriving at the end of the autumn Summit and be given a timely treatment. I don't see that adequate data can be collected at that time as required, on the other side, that the helmet duty is not necessary. Just to emphasize it: The use of helmets in situations such as bicycle riding on the streets is very necessary, or just in general, very intelligent. But that does not necessarily mean that she should be under law. There is one obligation to the law now, and this has gone through the process with this bill: The original was just what it is now, 15 years old and younger. The management board suddenly suggests that this should be up to 18 years of age and younger and recommended as a minister to examine all helmet duties. Then you hear the story stories of the committee that your helmets are supposed to match their seat belts. It's a serious matter if someone doesn't wear a seat belt. There are fines and fines, as far as I know. So it seems to be the course of everything. However, there is no evidence that the safety objectives intended to be met by that decision are met. As is the case today, a political decision that is not based on evidence is now being made that the basic school age is related to helmets. Not entirely, though, since those who have birthday birthdays early in the year can suddenly stop wearing their helmets even if they are not completely out of high school if I have the numbers right in this case. Some have birthdays in January and others only in December. There's a bit of a wide range of things going on here. Then nothing necessarily, I think, I might be wrong there. It is too embarrassing to know where these limits lie. So I'm just calling attention to this position. The first decision is to make, so they're to see if it's right or not. This, of course, should turn queer. That's really all I'm going to make a comment about. If, after all, the data show that there'll be a positive number on the use of helmets, positive security numbers, positive bike figures, and so forth, with this kind of operation, I'll be the first man to jump on it. However, data and data need to be available, which is not. So I don't recommend that this is done. It's better to store this and make the decision once the data is collected, because it's pre-established, but I don't think the data collection will work quickly. It would probably be after a year or so that there would be evidence to take a decision on or off. I haven't seen or received evidence that there's a serious problem with the use of helmets right now. So I don't see that there's a hundred people at risk whether it's going to be months or months from now or after the year, whether the helmet duty will be placed on the front or on the next spring or at all. So I'll make a serious comment about the decision sequence in this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u75	Mr. President. We will discuss a bill for traffic laws and adjustments that can be found there. I wanted to discuss only the adjustments made today. paritaprevir and a member of Bergþór Ólason's committee, an arrangement of 50th par. The bill. This is a prohibition on driving under the influence of addictive substances. The current law forbids driving under the influence of addictive and drug abuse to have signs of such abuse measured in blood and/or urine. This bill suggests that, as stated in 2 mg. Fifty. ▪ The term "drugs and addictions" is spoken of by the U.S. 1.mg. in the blood of a driver, it is considered to be under the influence of addictive and illicit drugs and to be unable to drive vehicles safely. That is, in other words, as mentioned today and as I wish to be made, the measurement is in the urine. To this, it seems to be the reason. A senator disagrees, and he wants to add again that a driver's urinary drug or drug is not allowed to drive a vehicle to the driver's urine at the same time. For this reason, I want to apply only what is stated in the discussion of the Mosaic Law. It is just about to suggest that the fundamental change from the current directive will be to measure the potential amount of addictive and drug, which is a basis for assuming that a driver is involved in chemical activity and therefore the inability to operate vehicles safely, only a driver's blood will be required. This will result in a reduction of the urine flow that has already been present and is based on the fact that when addiction and drugs, or its inactive metabolites are detected only in the urine, not in the blood, alone in the urine, it is generally appropriate to conclude that such materials have been consumed but that they are no longer in the quantity or recent state that the driver is under some of the substance's influence and that it is inappropriate to control the vehicle safely. This must be crucial when a vehicle or some kind of forcedness arrangements as suggested in the transition are imposed that the driver is forbidden to operate the vehicle, that the car is incompetent to control it. Because there are, of course, incidents that make us less equipped to drive vehicles. This was shown in the case of a man. A member of the body that a person, a driver, can only blame himself for having at some point in the past few months been able to take some drugs, and of course it would be best if all of us would refrain from drinking alcohol or other drugs, or usually drive fast or drive sleepy, for at times we are sleepy and have health problems. But that's not the way it is. We humans are all kinds of people, and we do things. But here we are considering whether to punish or to use other means of forcedness when it comes to a number of experts who have discussed the matter that the driver, whose urine is found to be having certain signs of consumption, is not unwise to drive. For what? A number of visitors, including Valgerður Rúnarsdóttir, medical director of Vogi, Kristín Ólafsdóttir, and Kristín Magnúsdóttir, came from the Institute of Drug and Toxicity of the University of Iceland, the department that handles all these tests and the police's work at the time of the drivers. In the case of these men, it was very clear that urine metabolism measurements are misleading and that urine concentrations do not affect the function, i.e. that when a substance is measured in urine alone rather than blood - in order to be completely stated, it is talking about when there is no measurement of blood, nothing, but something in the urine - it is clear that it is so far removed from its intake that it does not affect the individual's ability to drive or operate the vehicle safely. And why should we use forced means at such times? It should now be noted that if the police have suspected such a thing, if it is measured in the urine, they have had a blood test done to the individual. So the driver's movement has long been stopped. However, if it is found that there is nothing in the blood, you should not continue to have to carry on the necessary forced action and to continue to stop your quest. So I don't really see why this bill is about to be changed, because, really, it's a good bill. It's only about your helmet duty. It was very much discussed inside the Committee whether to go up to 18 years of age or stay for 15 years because 18 years of age was a total suicide. The reason they spoke of 16 years when the committee concluded was simply to send a clear message to basic schoolchildren. They're in middle school until the 16th year. Although some children will be 16 in December and the rest of January, it is now with a number of other rights, such as driving a driving test or voting rights or whatever, that they are based on the calendar rather than on the year of their age. It's just gonna have to. But there was talk of it, for reviews, that this was a good message, that the top grade of high school couldn't just let it go on its own, just the tenth grade, and then the kids would stop wearing a helmet. There would be a fairly special message for young people in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u76	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion much, but I'm a little in the same place as what. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason, former chief of police, said that I cared about the old law, although it may be possible to say that because of changing society and a new technology, the law has to be revised and added. But I'm not sure that we need to write new traffic laws. If they were to do so, it would have to be an improvement, but it seems to me that some laws in the original bill were by no means reformed. The committee's fixed some things. I'm going to discuss just two things that have been discussed in the past. Councilmen before me, the big helmet business, and the day when humans are being influenced. If we start, I'd like to get it out of here, because I'm looking at it. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason, whom I treasure, is probably one of the most hopeless changes I've ever seen in a long time, and a lot of regret. I suddenly stand in that position to agree. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson and why. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir, who has good reason to worry about, but not in this matter. So I'm made to avoid punishment if possible, and I don't want to punish men for being influenced, if they're not under influence. It just tells itself. I don't really think there's any need to discuss it further. In Iceland's Supreme Court, where a man had eaten cannabis two months before being taken by the police, I found that the first traffic law was a metabolite, but nothing in the blood. I gave a very inspired talk in the Supreme Court, saying that it would not work out. The court would just have to intervene. It would not be good for the lawgiver to say that the subject was under influence when it was not under influence, and all research data showed it, and all the court officials said that the subject was not affected. It was just like that. That didn't work. That inspired talk was only half that. It worked in that the Supreme Court decided not to deprive the man of the driving rights and then jumped on a warrant in the traffic law, which I think was 104. g. More than 102 str. then, but a fine, saying that the lawgiver decided that the person was under the influence even though he was not. No doubt this would do just once for the individual. The next look would be if he took cannabis two months before, then he drove. So I think it's just a really good change. Simply saying, as it is right, that the person is not under influence, and as a result, it is criminal, and I'm not talking about taking people's license to drive. The other thing is about helmet use. Then I'll return to my position on the Environment and Transport Committee to raise my use for 18 years. - Not what. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason, he says. All of a sudden, I agree with men like what they're doing. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, who normally wanted to know about almost everyone, and my friends in Piranha. I would have wanted to go much further and keep it as it was in the old days when I was a child, then I took a 12-year-old child test. Then came a teenage department, and I would have liked to have a helmet duty to 12 years of age, since children are not as developed as they later become in control of such devices. I would have liked to have a helmet duty for 12 years and, as was often the case in high school in the old days, there were other rules in youth departments than the Leagues. It must be possible now since it was possible in the old days, but the distinction must be made. So now it is just that biking is not the same as riding a bicycle. When I ride to work sometimes, on a female bike with a basket on my face, I don't ride fast. I think I'll run faster, or I'll do it in my youth. We are not going to oblige a cook to wear a helmet. It looks very different when you get on a race wheel or exercise for that and go at 40 miles an hour. I would much rather believe that older helmet duties would be attached to some speed on the bike. You see, bikes are different, just like that. I have seen no evidence of this about bicycle riding - which has become very popular and widespread, and many cycled, such as when I was a child - that some head injury is common around them. I think head injuries and other injuries are more common in Helgafells and wolves. What message is the lawgiver sending to them? Why don't we have elbow screens and knee pins? I don't think it can be compared to a safety belt in a car. If a biker makes his way as fast as a car, I feel that he should wear a helmet, not tie it to anyone's age, but that everyone who rides on a helmet, which I think everyone has. That's how I watched these helmets and addictions. Of course, we're supposed to be responsible for ourselves in this, like everything else, so I'm talking about my helmet. I can totally understand 15 years, maybe fall into 16 years. But I think people are supposed to be careful about this, and I think that much more and more interests are involved than thinking that someone might fall and get hurt or hurt, which, of course, always happens. It also happens as we walk, it happens on foot, it happens when we're walking all over the hill, holes, and hills. It's a part of life. Maybe the safest thing is we don't go out the door, have no corners in the apartment, and put a sponge all over the ring. I'm just not interested. Of course, there is something else about children, but we do not completely agree on that. I think I probably don't agree with most people here on what is a child. I've always put a child in line with his age. It doesn't take responsibility for its own actions until then. We have children so far beyond our years. We are children when it comes to drinking, very much beyond our age. I'm not in that place. People can call this irresponsible, but I don't think it's. I think we in this room are taking too much responsibility for all the people in the country that I don't think will be good for the overall population. I'm not just gonna be negative. Of course, there are many benefits. There's one thing at the end that I find strange in the bill that no one has ever wanted to change, that the line has now been withdrawn from 0.5◯ to 0.2. I've been asking, why? What do people have in mind that those with low blood counts are unable to drive or worse than those who only have 0.1◯? I haven't seen any data on it. I don't think there's any reason to change it unless we have something that says it is and that some research shows it - even though I almost hate that word - and something that tells me it. I think it's all part of a decrease in patience, as men call it foreign, the highest. The president, who is a fine word, which I also think was the reason why driving was forbidden even if the metabolites were in urine. This is all part of what's called in a foreign language, U.S.A. President, or no patience. I'll experience it somehow in our society that we're becoming more impatient with those who are different from us or who don't do what we think is the most reasonable thing to do. It is everywhere in our society, and all we can think of is by means of some kind of wood or punishment. I don't think it's right. I think it would be so much better for the rest of the community over time that we have a little more responsibility for ourselves. Of course, I have no interest in being dangerous. If people find out that humans are dangerous by driving at 0.2◯ in the blood, I don't object to punishment. But no one has told me, no one has shown me, or proved it to me, not any man. It's just part of this impatientness. They say in advance: We cannot afford to drink alcohol or some other substance and drive a car. I'll have to have something better to read, but I don't want to be so impatient about it. Then we may as well have it, which, of course, will be the next time the law is reviewed. Evolution is always that way. As a result, everyone has to wear a helmet to drive a vehicle, to drive a bicycle, even to go to the jog. I'm not going to be a big part of it, and I think we should think about these things better, tops. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u77	The president wants to say that he is completely intolerant to English scripts, but he still doesn't look at it. The senator, although twice using English as a speaker, points to the phrase "complete intolerance. "
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u78	Mr. President. It is a historic moment at a council when we are at ease. paritaprevir Hermies, Níelsson, agree on something. And then, of course, I am having a great time feeling that we don't agree on the big helmet thing. This was shown in the case of a man. A senator said that it was not possible to compare the use of helmets and safety belts. So I have my first question. One senator simply said: "Why not? It's exactly the same. There's some kind of security device being decided on when people travel. I don't see that there is any difference between safety belts and helmets. Why isn't this tied to speed? [[The president calls.]] Maybe I'll come in on it in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u79	V.E.G. President. The reason I don't see this as the same thing is to ride a car at a very different pace and drive at a very different pace. With the same reasoning, I could have assigned every person outside the house to wear a helmet. It's just a safety device. I say, somewhere, this must be the line. I think the line is there, that we don't have to wear a helmet on a bicycle, because more than 90% of bikers aren't riding so fast that it's actually more dangerous than just running, or walking up on the Wolfsfells or on Helgafell or whatever they're all called. Last time I went to the emergency room in the spring, I think half of the people waiting were walking around town somewhere. It's very dangerous. [[The president calls.]] I'm not interested in taking action with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u80	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. If you're riding a bicycle, you're probably doing that on the road. It's not necessarily about rolling somewhere, you falling at the top of a mountain tunnel, it's about how the accident happens when you drive. The car is driven on a bicycle walker that hits the street, and it's good to have a helmet on your head. The message the law sends to the kids is clear. I don't know. I think it's a bad message when we pretend it's an obligation to wear a helmet instead of being protected, that it's a self-defence, so we're sorting them out when they get to the 10th grade, high school seniors. That's exactly what I think it is. It's a tough message from the legislature.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u81	V.E.G. President. I just want to start by arguing that most cyclists will be hit. Most accidents simply fall, lose control of the bike. [[Up front.]] Most of the time, walking people are driving cars. It would also be nice to have a helmet. I'm just saying I want the boundaries somewhere. We can discern that. I also said in my speech that I wouldn't stick fingers out for 15 years, not even 16, I'm not gonna make it any big deal. All I'm saying is, when men are up to 18 years, there's gonna be something more next. I believe that bicycling is a very important means of health for this nation, and we know that the more people cycle, the more accidents there will be. But I'm trying to assess a little of the overall interest in this. Some people don't bother to ride a bicycle, and they always slide with their helmet. I won't stop it. I won't. Senator. That's when I stopped riding.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u82	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A gentleman in Níelsson's son for an excellent speech. For example, I can start by removing the helmet speech so in my case, it would be far more important to wear knee and elbow protection than head protection. I can see why. paritaprevir Brins the Brynjar of Níelsson agree with that. I knew it before. However, as for his criticism of my suggestion that urine tests are being used in this evaluation, my opinion of reducing the risk ratio is that traffic content. I think it is reasonable for the senator to believe that a person would be fined for a quick violation of the picture even if he had made it safely to his home. I'm sorry. A senator's avoidance of a similar precautionary approach, such a phobia procedure, includes the same approach to urine? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u83	V.E.G. President. As to phobia, I experience this as an intolerance to drug abuse. If men told me that there was something that would indicate that those who are not in blood but in urine, even for weeks of age, were less qualified to drive a car, I could buy it. But my theory is that this intolerance that I mentioned earlier as to drugs is just as intelligent, though. A senator, and to say that those who have drunk sugar drink should not drive. There is nothing to tell us that cannabis consumption two months ago has an effect even if it is found in the urine. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u84	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. Of course, nobody knew but the customer what to do. A senator at his time, whether it was two months or some other time from the end of his ingestion. It does not change the fact that by making this adjustment, this practice against drugs in the urine will be considered illegal. No doubt the same application can be applied, that it can be considered to be basic laws, and it is not limited to traffic laws. There's more. I can't believe it. A senator would agree that this approach is considered an incorruption approach, but at the same time, he agrees that punishment is possible for having made a drunk or fast drive because there was no harm. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u85	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen on timelines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u86	I couldn't get over the top. The President hit so fast.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u87	V.E.G. President. I can tell you what. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason's report that there are many dangers in the law, creating danger. This did not necessarily lead to harm, but there is nothing new. This has to be dangerous by taking cannabis although the activity has long since disappeared. There's nothing in the blood. The product is not active in the person and therefore does not affect the driving, but it is found in the urine because the metabolites are leaving for so long. That's just what I'm saying. This is the difference. That's right when it comes to it. A senator shares with you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, we can legally decide to make a penalty for eating non-Urinary substances. I just agree with what. A senator that has no right to do, as it were, human rights. paritaprevir Hrafn's Helgi held. It's all nonsense. [[The president calls.]] But I look at it this way that the person has to be a failure to drive, or I don't want to punish.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u88	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. A lot of times, I agree with what. Senator. But I'm in just another place in those helmets, but many others because I don't make a complete distinction between cars and helmets. I wondered if a man who has to go into the store and has to drive 500 yards shouldn't be in his belt. If you have to drive a short car or drive slowly, should you not have light on your car? I haven't seen any evidence that suggests it's wise. I also don't remember putting down evidence to show that helmet use reduces interest in bicycle riding. Does the senator know? You're not cute with a helmet, I realize that, but it's not a beauty contest. However, I recall that the data contain information from Denmark showing that there is a correlation between helmet use and accidents, i.e. serious accidents are reduced when bicycles use helmets. I understand the Senator's idea of freedom, but we're making sense to people like driving. [[The president calls.]] Is there a basic difference?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u89	V.E.G. President. As I said before, there is no fundamental difference. That's exactly the same view. But I ask, " Where is the limit? ' I'm sure those who went up on mountains with helmets, knee pins, and elbow screens would get hurt less than the others. We haven't thought of saying, "You're not walking around in the wilderness unless you're carrying this gear. No, we won't. A bicycle is in my mind for most people who don't ride fast. And then I see those who are preparing a race and cycle fast. They wear helmets, even though they are 50, 40, or 30 years old. There's a line somewhere. There's no big difference, but I'm just saying that there are men like me, many others, and probably a lot of teenagers that if we get hit by the police every time we go to the bike, we're not gonna do it. [[The president calls.]] Then we won't ride. That's my theory.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u90	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think I've had my bike once a year and I used a helmet. I just didn't make any sense. While people may disagree whether there is any reason to defend this head, I think it is very important that we convey a message that makes us safer with a helmet. I think the same is true when we talk about legalizing lights on cars or seat belts, I don't think there's any fundamental difference. We're looking out for life, limb and health. Maybe we're not supposed to get involved. Maybe we're just supposed to let people drive without a belt. It's hard to say that if you ride fast, you have to wear a helmet, that if you drive far, you have to wear a seat belt or light. It's very difficult to set such boundaries, that's why I agree. Senator. It's just a question of where the line should be. I'm still very happy that this place has a why. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir countered, leaving no doubt that there is still a difference between the two of them on a certain matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u91	V.E.G. President. Yes, we are relieved that there was a difference. I'm just saying, somewhere, the line has to be. As far as I'm concerned, they're there. I can't really compare seat belts with lights because cars have special needs, not just those ones.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u92	Right.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u93	But I don't always feel that we can go further and further with legislation and penalties because something could happen. So where do we end up? We can spread propaganda, I'm willing to give a lot of propaganda about it and encourage it. I didn't let my boys out in my time without a helmet. I never thought of it because I was responsible for it. I'm saying there are so many other factors that can matter too. And where do we end up? Like I said once, it ends with us never going outside the door. [[The president calls.]] I don't want to be there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u94	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Brynjar's armoury, Níelsson's son, here, has been a habit of speaking about himself and his personal opinions and experiences, and he has gone to great lengths for the United States of Congress where his intolerance lies. This may be of interest to some, but less interest to others. Hv. A member of the Parliament says that he has a lot of intolerance to regulations and bans, despite his working on law at the Council, to set laws and rules, but perhaps he feels that his role is to reduce law and order. Hv. In his talk about self - responsibility, a senator spoke extensively about alcohol and drugs when driving vehicles. I want to know what solutions we're gonna take. A senator proposes what he has in sight to reduce alcohol or drug abuse when there is no rules or bans, as it were. A senator speaking through here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u95	V.E.G. President. It was one of the strangest answers I've had in my life. [[Up front.]] What the hell is this shit? I don't object to being incompetent to driving or driving dangerously illegal. I simply demand that I be shown that the person is unconvinced, not just because I have some intolerance to drug abuse or alcohol intolerance. It's as simple as that. Of course, if we put people in danger, we don't make laws. We have penalties and penalties, there is no disagreement, but I'm not going to interfere with what people are doing, whether they take drugs on their own time, alcohol, or anyone else. I will not forbid driving or riding or doing anything unless it has the ability to do so and thus is harmful to others. A more simple answer cannot be found.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u96	Mr. President. Hv. One member says that he will not forbid people to drive under the influence of drugs or alcohol unless they have the ability to do so. How can you tell? A senator realizes that these qualifications are measured? What standards does he place in his mind to determine the ability of drivers not only to harm himself but also to others? When driving, people are responsible not only for themselves but also for other people driving along the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u97	V.E.G. President. Of course, we all have responsibility for ourselves and others when we are driving. That's why we need to be careful. I often feel that while humans are not under the influence of any chemicals, they can also be unable to drive, e.g. feeling tired or sleepy. People realize that then they are not equipped to drive. It can be punished for such things and may lose a driver's license. It's happened. I'm just saying that there are some experts who evaluate when any amount of alcohol, whenever nonblood drugs, affects the person's ability to drive. If it doesn't affect the ability of the individual, I'm not going to have any rules or regulations in it. I don't even think about it. Senator. The same is true of everything in life. But I'm not against something safe. I'm not against security belts. [[The president calls.]] I don't object that men wear helmets like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u98	A respectable president. I bring here an opinion from the greater part of the General and Education Committee on the bill to legalize consumer decision-making committees. This is a administrative bill from a travel, industrial and innovation minister with a defined aim to ensure consumers' access to a more efficient and professional approach to the solution to conflicts with the segregators and to put it in order to resolve issues outside the courts. This is a vast deal of subjects, attracting all kinds of productions and changes in laws far and wide. The Commission has discussed the matter and has contacted Daði Ólafsson from the Department of Employment and Development, Tryggvi Axelsson, Thoré Árnadóttir Adnad, and MatthildurSveinsdóttir Þórunn from the National Institutes, Heiðrún Björk Gísladóttir on behalf of the Industrial Association, the Industrial Association, and the Companies Association, Breki Karlsson, Pétursdóttir, and Ívar Halldórsson from the Neythians and Grímur Sigurðarson from the National Legal Committee of Iceland. The Committee received reviews from the National Social Association of Iceland, International Economic Associations, National Institutes of Industrial Affairs, Fundamental Services, Trade and Service Associations, and Tourism. The bill suggests that the total law on the solution of issues outside the courts will be given. It is suggested that certain regulations be implemented by the European Parliament and the Council of 2013/11/EU, for the solution of non-authorities, and for the Regulation (EU) No 37/2010: 524/2013, the solution to consumers'issues through electronic online treatment. In addition, the bill includes suggestions on the basis of a comprehensive review of legal matters to solve the exclusive conflict between consumers. Most recently, the reviewers were generally included in the subject of the bill, which included an important step toward increasing consumer protection. I'm not going to file long enough, but I'm going to refer to the Senate document, and I'm not going to go to this long and detailed committee opinion any other way than to refer to it. At the end of this report, the Ministry pointed out that in view of the changes in the topic of the bill for non-authorities, it is necessary to ensure that consumers are not prevented by abnormal terms from looking to relevant judges or by other means making it difficult for them to seek their rights. In this country, consumer contracts, which have not been held by law or by a judge, have not been held by citizens. However, in the current Treaty Treaty Act, there are no restrictions on this kind of contract. In many other countries, special laws have been provided to protect consumers from treaties that may later arise in the proper relationship between consumers and sellers. If the bill is legal, the Ministry considers it a special need for consumers to be protected from the terms of terms of conflict. In addition, it is desirable to make clear and to know that this type of contract law will be passed on by a special law. So the Ministry of Justice arranged for a change in consultation with the Ministry of Justice. The majority agree with the Ministry on these topics and therefore contributes to appropriate adjustments. Other than that, the majority of the bill considers it a step for the Icelandic consumers to be a step toward strengthening their position and rights in their conflicts with the segregators. In addition to the changes that have been explained in the Committee's opinion, there are some changes that are legal in nature. All of these changes are included in a special Senate document that I'm not going to reenact, which is simply present as part of the evidence. With these changes, the greater part contributes to the approval of the bill. Under the authority given here, Páll Magnússon, president and executive, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Árnadóttir Kolbrún, Birgir Ármannsson's son, Guðmundur And Thorsson, Jón St. Steindór Valdimarsson, Steinunn Þóra, Aarna's Árnadóttir, and Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u99	Mr. President. I bring here an opinion on the bill to legalize climate change laws from 2012, with subsequent changes, which are involved in the development of administration and development. In general, more of the Environment and Transport Committee celebrate this bill and consider it an essential step of many that will be taken to achieve the objectives of Iceland's climate until 2030. Iceland is, as we know, committed by international agreements to reduce emissions to help control climate change. Most of them are the Paris Convention adopted in 2015 and the Kyoto Protocol. Then Iceland is committed to the Member States of the European Council to follow the recommendations of the European Parliament and the European Parliament. The European Parliament has repeatedly agreed that Member States must take more intensive and extensive measures to reduce pollution and improve air quality in ensuring citizens and rural the basic rights of better air quality, now the last recommendations by the European Commission on May 23, 2018. It is most recently reported that air pollution is considered to be a major health crisis according to the World Health Organization, while 4.2 million people die each year directly from air pollution. Of these, it is estimated that 753,000 people will die in Europe alone according to the latest figures of the Agency, which, like the European Parliament, have defined pure air as basic human rights. In terms of pollution, Iceland is no exception, but according to a report, Iceland was the European Union and EFTA, with the greatest emissions of carbon dioxide from the economy in 2016. So it is clear, Mr. President, that action is required, radical action, and that the bill is an essential step in that direction. I'd like to tear down here the changes in the development proposals that most of the Environment and Transport Committee agreed to do on the bill and the emphasis that the committee agreed on to provide for the case. First of all, it's a carbon equation. With 1 st. The bill is the definition of the term carbon balance added to Article 3. law on climate issues. The committee found that the aim of action on climate matters was to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to eliminate emissions that cannot be fully prevented. The definition would be blurred in this respect and would actually mix the goals together. The majority agree with the above views and suggests a change in the wording of carbon balance to explain the concept and harmonization in the direction of the Management Board's climate policy. Second, it's a plan of action. With a-a team 2. is the law on climate uplifted with the aim of strengthening the plan as a control tool to achieve target reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. In view of the greater part of the Environment and Transport Committee, the work programme for climates was 2018-2030, which was introduced in September the last good start, although there was a lack of detailed objectives. However, the plan of action has started work and encouraged the discussion and became part of a nation's awareness of climate issues. In 1st. The paragraph of the law states that a minister has a climate-based strategy to recommend measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to increase carbon binding in this country. The commission presented criticism of the terms 1 mg. That it is unclear who should respond to these suggestions and actions. The majority said that the wording of the paragraph is not clear enough in this regard and that the action programme should correctly implement actions instead of steps to take. In addition, the more part of the environment and transport committee contributes to a change in 1 mg. 2.g. That the programme should implement measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase carbon binding in this country in cooperation with strategists and experts. Third, it is a law on climate control. A- force 3. The bill contains new guidelines for climate management, its role, and its work. The Council has, as it is well known, been appointed in accordance with the Council's Reconception of No. 46/145. The work of the Governing Body is defined in the number 1st 2.mg. but one of them is providing education and information on climate issues to the general public, companies, institutions and rural groups. Visitors to the Committee showed that the wording of the law might be understood as a means of publication of matter. It is not, therefore, that various institutions do and hold in the publication of all kinds of information and information sharing. The majority agree that this need to be explained and that the European Commission has a visual view of education and information, but the responsibility for the provision of this exchange remains. Therefore, the more part contributes to a change of that substance to the fourth number 2.mg. Section 3. Similar criticism was also observed with regard to the 5th. It would be more correct for institutions to take responsibility and to suggest monitoring and research related to climate change than a climate board was assigned to study these suggestions. The majority agree with the criticism and suggest a change in the 5th number. The committee also discussed a number of orders in the Council of Climate, and whether it should be specifically mentioned in the laws of the committee. The committee found that it would be necessary for a certain amount of openness to be maintained. This area, climate, would be varied, depending on which members of the council were needed for a session at any given time. However, it would be certain that the members of the council represented certain areas of society, and the majority of them agree to that in the bill there is a measure of flexibility in the council. When it comes to the representatives of the industry at the climatic Council of Climate, it was noted that both the employment team and the remuneration community are involved. So the majority feels that it is necessary for a minister to take account of an order in the council and to make sure that the representatives of both groups are there. Then, a greater proportion of the committee's equal share and its importance to the order and that those taking place have experience or knowledge of climate, climate-related areas, or environment. Fourth, it's a climate policy. B-team 3. The bill is based on state climate policy, but according to the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, state and business institutions in the majority of the state are obliged to set up climate policy. It was considered at the Committee's meetings whether it would be necessary to add into the communities. In fact, the rural communities are one of the most important levels of government here on land and society, without which there is little need for action to help control climate change. The cry for action and action in climates has rarely been louder than today. Can be used there, e.g. Consider the repeated climate strikes by young people around the world and from here on the East. Then the United Kingdom and Ireland Congress has declared a state of emergency in the climate as well as Scotland and Wales, as well as 19 rural communities in Australia, mayor of Brussels, and 114 United Kingdom governments when this is spoken. I have no doubt, Mr. President, that this figure is ever changing, and the population and cities of the population that will declare an emergency in the climate that encourages the government to take more drastic measures than at present. Therefore, Mr. President, it is clear that Iceland, like other nations, has to speed up efforts to combat climate change and its serious consequences. It is extremely urgent that government agencies at all governments lead them in a way that is intervening in these areas. There local government levels are not excluded, and the more part rejoices at the vital steps already taken by large and large rural communities, e.g. Reykjavíkurburg, who set up climate policy in 2016 and other rural areas that have started working on the induction of climate change programmes, such as Kóppavstown and other rural communities, who have completed the implementation of their strategy. In view of the greater part of the Environment and Transport Committee, it is essential that rural areas become active participants in climate activities and, therefore, suggest that rural areas also be obliged to set climate policy, such as Iceland's Management Board, government institutions and companies in the majority of the state's tenets. Similarly, the greater part realizes that such a course may be an enormous task for the smallest rural communities. Thus, the majority of the countries, large or small, can unite in climate policy development, including Based on practical considerations and the use of knowledge in climate issues across rural areas. It is also important to mention that the EEA will assist government agencies in the process and implementation of climate policy and that the majority of the countries will have the advice like other government agencies. Adds the extra item to 3 mg. Section 3. Iceland's management board has already set a climate policy, but one of its objectives is to be a model for other government institutions and businesses and can also look forward to that development in its own climate policy. It also appeared to the committee that several institutions and businesses in the majority of the state's tenets, such as the largest power company in government owners, land induction, have already established or worked hard to develop environmental and climate policies. It was noted to the committee that within their ranks there is a tremendous willingness to share knowledge and experience with others in the process of such a course, and that is well. It was good to find this conversation with visitors who came before the committee in order to share with others when it comes to planning and sharing it with other institutions and rural communities. Therefore, the more part encourages cooperation among the persons under the law, so that all the knowledge and experience in the past will be effectively developed and that action can be undertaken as early as possible to help control climate change. The majority stress that in the development of rural climate policy, this policy will be targeted prior to the end of 2021. For this reason, I want to point out and thank you for the well - being of a community to accept responsibility when it comes to measures to manage climate change. The well-being can be found directly by local authorities as well as by the heads of the Union of Icelandic rural society, and that's fine. It is foreview and fairness, and I would like to commend the European Union for the vision of climate and the responsibility of wanting to take on more burdens and share knowledge with others. Number five, section 3. for reports on the impact of climate change in Iceland. A greater proportion of the environment and transport committees rejoice that such reports will be legalised, as regular reports of experts in this field are necessary in the measures and adaptations to be carried out on as a result of climate change. We need to know exactly what numbers we're working on, what changes we're seeing, what accurate information we're working on. On this point, we have a shortage of climate issues here, and we need to do better when it comes to obtaining data and using these data and details to make good decisions. Hence, the majority stress that these regular reports are immediately followed, not just leftovers, but followed. It is also very important that we be on guard here at the council that there is a regular discussion in this hall about the climate, about the great woe we are facing as a community and as a member of the national community. Therefore, more than one part of the Environment Minister's assessment of the state of the climate is strongly requested by the General Report on the state of the environment, which includes: the results of the scientific reports he has involved in the impacts of climate change. I think it's a very positive thing because we at a councilroom need to have more discussions on the climate. We need to open up these cases above our list of importance, Mr. President. I hope we take to heart the above, but we need to discuss these matters with depth and vision. Fifth, it's a climate fund. In the 5th. The bill is set up on climate funds and on its role and on the terms of the bill, the role of the fund is confined to the present level, and it is proposed to support its role in the innovation of climate change and climate-related projects for the presentation and education of climate change impacts. A greater proportion of the environment and transport committees feel that this law is a good thing. It is good to be clearly set aside the role of the fund, and particularly in terms of innovation rather than funding other projects, thereby encouraging innovation when it comes to finding solutions to the crisis of climate change. Climate change impacts and measures are an enormous task that affects most areas of society. In view of the greater part, the funding of climate projects is necessary both from public sources, from public funds or from financial resources as well as from the sector. For example, in strengthening research and development work related to the induction of new climate-friendly technologies or design. The 3rd Amendment 5. it shows that these improvements in innovation are intended for that purpose. It was noted that using the wording, the funding of research and action as a result of adaptation to climate change would not be expected, but it would be fitting that such research also depended on the directive. The majority agreeed with that view. In addition, the majority proposed minor legal adjustments that do not require explanation. Finally, Mr. President, I would like to emphasize the degree to which the environment and transport committee was in payment of this bill. I also want to thank the spirit and rhythm of most members of the committee when we went to bed. The committee proposed a change to the bill. I think the Environment and Transport Committee has made this bill even better. All of us know here that more drastic measures are being called for constantly, clearer measures. This bill is just one step out of a number of people we have to take, but that's a big, important step. I am really happy with the work that the Environment and Transport Committee laid on the Committee and thanked the members of the committee for the spirit they found on the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u100	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for a brilliant speech and saying that it is very important that we discuss climate issues more and more deeply in this room than we do. I'm hoping we'll have a chance, because there are so many reasons to discuss climate, not just the policy we're setting now, but, for example. around budgets and such, how to spend money if we watch climate or action that is obvious to us that we need to take action. I'd like to ask you what. A senator into what was said to me in her speech, that Iceland had the most economic energy on an individual. What I'm wondering is, because I didn't find it in the data quickly, although I may have overlooked it, is whether it's the whole one, i.e. Flights, ships, cars, the entire economy. There is another question about where we can get the most results in the shortest time. It may be difficult to answer, and I do not expect a very accurate answer to that question. But I don't think we're little, but we're smaller, but many others in the big context. We often talk about the car, the private car, which is understandable, it is clearly contaminated, but if I remember it is a small part of all emissions in Iceland and probably around the world, but especially in Iceland. I ask, " What can we do in the other cases where we have to reduce emissions? ' Do we have to put a pair of dinners on flights? How can we overcome it without always talking about the same thing, the traffic, and the car? There are also ships, and certainly public transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u101	Mr. President. Thank you. I'm glad to hear that he agrees with me that we discuss climate matters more frequently and regularly. When it comes to the pollution rate, I was referring to the publication of the Hausum, if I misread correctly, at the beginning of this year or at the end of the last year. It turned out that Iceland was the EU and EFTA, which had the most economic release of carbon dioxide in 2016. There are the latest numbers, and inside these numbers are the large mails, the industry, and the flying. You're right. A senator will talk about it, of course, we need to take the large mails into the numbers. We also need to focus on the fly and the heavy industry, which are large sources of pollution. There we can use creative thinking and not only put on control charges such as carbon tax and airport tax or flying tax, as if to produce a Swedish government for flights. Then, because we're discussing a bill to legalize the changing of climate laws, there's a question also about whether the government, the government, should it really be that its carbon equal flights, should be taken by surprise? We know that it is the public that is being taken by surprise when it comes to measures to combat climate change. We cannot wait for the free act; rather, we are the foremost public example.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u102	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I agree with Hv senator that we need to examine the bigger picture, absolutely. The question is also, How can we develop positive incentives to improve our thinking and thinking about individuals or individuals? Is positive inducers such as to encourage individuals to switch from diesel and fuel cars to electric cars? Surely they are without pay today, at least Part of them. For example, should we do even more well and give money to those who buy electricity cars some kind of tax reimbursement? Of course, the state and rural society are to ride the field, replace all the truck fleets, choose environmental solutions for the ministry or office and for that reason. There are things you can do, I agree with that. A senator with that. It's nice to hear if the government has begun to consider taking, for example. electric cars in use. [[The president calls.]] When I was in the position of choosing a ministerial car about the year, I wanted a electric car, but I wasn't allowed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u103	I hear that me and what. When it comes to automobiles, a senator is on the same page and is sorry to hear it in case of trouble. A senator and a former secretary of state has not been allowed to select an electrical vehicle. At that time, there was not much forwardness, but it would have been better. Because of what? A senator asked me last year about the car tour, saying that there was even a small part of pollution and later opposed the use of cars and the need to increase the share of electrical cars owned by the government, so I agree. But I also think when it comes to public transportation, we need to take drastic measures to make them a practical choice for people. It is the dramatic and vital action that we need to unite in. Not only is it replaced by electric cars, for neither can anyone afford to buy a new electric car, but also strengthens to the side and at the same time to use public transportation. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm counting on. A senator will come along on that journey.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u104	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Berry's daughter for your story talk. I'm on top of this committee party, and I'm coming to him in a speech later, not going to spend the time that has been delivered. But I wanted to get into a dot like that. A senator entered a speech earlier that focuses on the senator's position that, of course, flights and aluminium productions and such things were to be counted at every person's disposal by permission of a president. In this context, I'd like to ask the senator, because I heard the first answer coming in the direction of trying to focus on where to get results and where it was most important to put energy: For example, for example, a member of a U.S. senator who only stop at Leifs Station and then head west through the ocean or on Europe after incidents, did it matter to achieve a realistic estimate of success? If that's the situation, I'll give myself, for example. that the bankruptcy of WOW has had a marvelous effect in the context of evaluating emissions per person in Iceland. We are in the position of already reevaluating the government's financial policy. I'd like to hear a point of view. Senator: Are we going to focus on this? Is it not something else that we can put our energy in an effort to identify and assess and succeed? These good people will only fly with someone else if not with Icelandic airlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u105	Mr. President. Thank you. When it comes to flying and polluting flights, a senator for the counter - answer and interesting call. We know that flying is one of the most polluted. We also know that we are in a bit of a difficult geographic situation as an island north of the Atlantic Ocean, trusting much in flying. How on earth are we supposed to reduce flights? I'm one of those who for a few years thought that flight expenses were really too low. If I don't fly here, back and forth, between 15 and 25 airlines. That's well, and it's good that people are traveling and seeing the world. But it is worth a moment and a moment to wonder when the cost of flights to Poland is 8,000. Whether we are on the right track, whether or not we are actually helping out for air travel in a way that is neither practical nor environmental. I wonder, too, which way. A senator shares the view with me because he listed WOW's bankruptcy and put it in an interesting costume when it comes to the environment, that flight costs have been too low for several years, and it has fallen on the weaker management base of airlines, which we see not only at WOW but also at Norway air and other low-cost airlines in Europe, and then on time when it comes to them. Hv. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson mentioned whether it was possible to record some kind of control, and then he was likely referring to paying and taxes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm very talkative of using the tax system to steer you, and it would be interesting to hear it. A senator shares that opinion with me. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u106	The president also reminds us of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u107	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjörðurdóttir. To answer my last question, I am a general spokesman who is less tax and simpler than higher. Hv. A senator asked me if -- she'll actually repeat the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u108	...whether the plane was too low.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u109	Yes, exactly. Thank you for a good question. You see, I think they've been too low for years, but it's also been shown to be a airline operation. So I think that if rigid green environmental taxes fell to the cost of business of these partners, it would actually be necessary for a double increase, in contrast with green taxes, and in setting up a partner who seems to have been pretty fucked up in the past few years. Now that I'm here to answer, I'm supposed to be asking. It's a strange situation to get ahold of. [[The president calls.]] But with the senator's question, she'll only be free to faddle something about what I would have meant to say if I had had more time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u110	Mr. President. I hear that me and what. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason can have a lot of talk about how we can steer flight routes to and from the country and in the very fact that some of their expenditures can be used to treat the environment. [[Up front.]] Yeah, I think we both agree with that. I think there's a lot of opportunities for green taxation. I don't think we should be afraid to use green taxation to control a certain behavior that is less environmentally friendly and to help prevent climate change. I hear what you're saying. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason agrees with me that in recent years flight costs have been too low. I just take it as a witness that he is well pleased to look at some kind of control in public fees towards green.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u111	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's excellent speech and a review. Here is an important issue and a big deal; climate is becoming one of the biggest issues, both national and international. I wanted to ask you what. A senator only in half. On page 18. 3 reviews a report on the effects of climate change. It says that Ministers regularly allow scientific reports on the effects of climate change on natural processes and society in Iceland. I just want to stay at this community in Iceland. I'm saying I'm very into these reports and I think they're very important into this. How does that feel if you have a problem with it? A senator could come into it only? Is e.g. Are you looking at the tax factor? Will it be examined? I think it is very important to examine him, especially in the country, that tax such as carbon tax is leveled fairly down to the entire population. I think it's a bit important to get it out, if there's a possibility that there might be a report here. In Comb 4. is about companies and business people who are expected to submit reports. I'd like to get some more out of it by then. A senator: Are you talking about the need to report reports to a single and small company? Isn't this getting a little overcrowded? Without charge, it is stated, it is mandatory to report to the EEA - if possible. A senator could explain the matter simply. I couldn't find it in the report.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u112	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For answer the Birgir of Þórarinsson. Yes, it is. This stipulates that Ministers regularly allow scientific reports on the effects of climate change on natural processes and society in Iceland. It is clear that climate change is also a change in society, our social habits, our eating habits, our travel habits, our traffic habits. Climate change will also mean changes in agriculture and our basic fields, such as the fishing industry. That's why society comes in here, and it's fine. That's well, because with this sentence it is recognized that climate change is not only environmental change but also social changes that we need to analyze and explain and discuss. About the second question why? The senator of the government agencies, whether or not there is a limit on their size, etc., it is not in the bill, and it was also not added to the members of the committee's list of parts. If you read the spirit of the law, I think it must be the general understanding of the law that this refers not to one or two people's workplace, who hear under the government, but rather to the big overcrowding and institutions that need to set up climate policies and plans. It was also shown in the Minister's case, when he recommended for the bill, that the EEA has received earmarked funds to help with the development of this programme, and at any rate one standard value will be lost to achieve these programmes by institutions of public property.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u113	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's answer is excellent. In Comb 4. says, if we take this up a little more carefully with these reports: a firm and a professional person should submit to the job. Professionals, I think it's a little fuzzy. There would have to be some kind of definition of what they're talking about there, i.e. the size of enterprises, etc. As I read this, Mr. President, I feel like a small company with three or four employees could be required to report operations on climate. I may be mistaken, but it's not like that. I was trying to read my report, but I didn't see it. In fact, it is suggested that the minister can establish further rules about this in the Regulation. Finally, I'd like to bring a little in on these green taxes, that's interesting what happened. Senator. Would be e.g. Do you not agree that the airlines will begin producing less polluted engines? Do the public always have to take care of these things, such as in a higher price of cargo and so forth? Why don't we set these demands on the airlines?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u114	Mr. President. Yes, I wholeheartedly agree with what was said in the last case. Senator. Individuals cannot carry all these burdens themselves, but the big parties, including the public and the companies, must set a good example and take this also on themselves, i.e. The responsibility to resist climate change. I reminded you, last year we're going back to what. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason's son, that the Swedish government has placed on a so - called flight tax, in the case of a very temporary dissatisfaction of the airlines, in the view that they carry on an even greater responsibility when it comes to environmental and climate change. In the case of professionals, it is stated by the Regulation that the Minister decides on which members are obliged to submit it. I trust it will be fair and good on the part of a minister. I got it. I got it. Councilmen to observe and follow up that regulations are being made well.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u115	Madam President. We vote for a great deal of justice. I'm very happy that this place is in the council, and I hope to see that loyal support is there. Councilmen on this important equality matter. The bill, if legal, takes effect on September 1 and I just wanted to use this opportunity to encourage consumers, then, of course women, and those interested in consumer protection, to monitor closely on September 1 and to see if this important tax reduction will not also come into the prices and prices of these important products, hygienic and contraception women, will certainly be reduced to the detriment of this valuable taxation. I urge all of us to keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u116	Madam President. This case is worth a lot of pay, but it's a bit of money for the merit tax system. Of course, it would have been necessary to take far more steps than to take this matter into consideration. I'll remind you, for example. ritonavir, with The dignity tax on drugs affects both the elderly, the poor, and those mentioned among the hands. So I find this matter, as I say, butt-sucker. There's no way to simplify the tax system, rather the other. I will not take my stand on this matter for the reason I don't think it's going far enough. I don't think any specific actions should be our guide. We are to perform actions that are relevant to the total number of people we are working for, i.e. The people of the land, and that's why I don't think this case is far enough, though it's a good price, as I say.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u117	Madam President. I want this vote to account for my votes and my party members of the Central Party. It's even there. they were moving, so to speak, a list of holidays from law on holidays to a law about 40 hours a day's workweek. I don't like this approach, so to speak. I think the situation is excellent, and we think that moving this day-to-day list to law would be about 40 hours of work a week would be an intermediary in just putting it into a bargain contract. I would be surprised if there was more to such a decision at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u118	A respectable president. I have to agree with that. A senator who spoke before me that I don't feel it's just like I'd like it to be. I'd like to dismiss the law as much as the bill Pirantar submitted earlier for this council. But this is a matter in the right direction, and I hope it will be remembered the next time. An independent person says that he feels that there should be more scaffolding to remove laws than being always put new that at least one Pirati agrees with them. I sometimes feel that there is a need to show in action what is said in a word.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u119	A respectable president. It's a pleasure to stand here today and to be walking about the People's School law. It has lasted a long time to strengthen the welfare of the people around the school. With these laws, of course, we are strengthening this form. The activities that have taken place in the LungA area and the People's University of Flattage are exemplary. This has to be done into the Icelandic education system and we're increasing the variety of these days. This is a very good case, and I thank you especially for the General and Education Committee how well she handled the situation and for its support on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u120	Madam President. It's important to come up here and thank both ministers and even the same as the House of Congress. This is an enormous and important step. We're promoting both diversity and increased opportunities in our system, both informal and formal school and education systems, and we have a pleasant tip about the country, both through the LungA, the People's University of Flatus, and hopefully we'll see another start coming up in Lake Saturday through a sports school and a connection with the National Society of Iceland. This is a huge step, we're opening the system, we're not shutting it down, and it's just gonna be good, and it's gonna be a success for an Icelandic community. So I say yes to this good bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u121	Mr. President. I want to take this opportunity and come up here to thank you. A board of directors and surveillance committees, and especially the top manager of the case, why. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson, for good work in this matter and, indeed, for the above. Both of these matters are the results of a few months ago that I started and came from committees who had the goal of turning away primarys to promote freedom of expression and make Iceland more available in that area. Both of these issues will have the result, especially this issue, which includes increasing the range of information songs, e.g. In terms of the General government and the courts, however, there is also a greater demand for governments to have better access to information. I am very pleased with this step in increasing the level of light and information freedom. We haven't finished all the work that was started, but I consider this to be the means of a prisoner on the way here taking advantage of the opportunity to thank the committee and what to do. A pilot in particular.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u122	President. I'd like to say thank you very much. Prime Minister for putting this matter to work. This is an enormous revolution in promoting the rights of the public to get information, and this would only happen because it is among the highest. The prime minister of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter burns to death. This is one of the pleasant things one saw when this government was formed to happen, i.e. It's something you can see you can trust the highest. Prime Minister for, i.e. to promote transparency. It's been put in the first place, but it's also another case that was accepted at its time by the council resolution and all classes in that matter, called IMI, or a case of Iceland's unique to the freedom of information and expression that Birgitta Jónsdóttir was the senior authority. I thank her, too. This is one example of when it takes time, it happens, and it has to be the right people in the right place for things to work out, and I thank them very much. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u123	Madam President. I appreciate the warm words for the Board of Directors and Control Committee but I'd like to, because I'm aware that it's the highest level. The prime minister is busy, and he is not likely to be able to read all the committee views that are presented, reminds us of what is listed in the Committee on the Review of the bill, i.e. that governments contribute more to the decision - making committee on information matters. Because the committee has been starving, as many committees have been, and there is a situation rate that is, in effect, completely unacceptable. To cover these matters, the Commission decided that governments would have to arrange for an equal rate of speech. If we don't, we'll celebrate this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u124	A respectable president. This issue has made many good changes since it was first proposed by the government and the management of the committee. But there is one factor left in my opinion, the cost of the bill. There are more than 500 million each year, and there is no particular explanation of what that coin should go on. We have happily agreed to all the improvements that have come on the bill, but the cost question remains and has remained unconcerned in the discussion. So we sit next to the entire issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u125	A respectable president. Generally speaking, it's just a really good thing, and a lot of good changes have come to this bill. However, existing forms are devoid of several reasons, and especially about your existing helmet duty. The decision is being made, and then it collects data. Of course, this should go the other way, it should first collect data and then make a decision based on that information. That's why we refuse that proposal, but in general, the bill is just very nice, and we look forward to seeing it work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u126	A respectable president. In a report from a group of people who were put together as a result of Porta's interpretation of drugism, one suggestion was that drug driving would no longer be defined as a violation of the law, considered substance driving, end-up if asked any expert on the subject and in actual violations of human rights, where people were judged for offenses that it had not been committed and that it was undisputed. It is an definition of the law, which was simply defined as a drug driving with a breakdown of substances in your urine, which does not mean that you are on drugs, possibly means that you smoke grass days or weeks ago. It was fixed in this bill, but there's a motion to change. 1771, which I encourage all members of the council to protest and vote against, which includes making this positive change comeback. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u127	It's a great Senate home. I just want to come in for a little while. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson said just before, that this is a vote for a change I made earlier today that turns to the fact that these issues are essentially going to be made in the same way as they have so far. This has no violation of human rights. While promoting the safety effects or approach of the traffic laws, the law's definitions are taken out. I believe that those who want to contribute to the safety of traffic laws are, in effect, being able to maintain driving when drug detection remains prohibited in their urine. That's what's suggested by this change.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u128	A respectable president. I am glad that this adjustment is rejected by so much of the Generals'section. I think it's a sign that we're already in the right way of substance abuse and that we stop treating drug addicts as if they're radioactive waste or automatic criminals and stop acting like drugs to be a man of some sort of evasive society that doesn't deserve fair treatment. I rejoice, most respectable president, that this tragic proposal is rejected. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u129	A respectable president. I am following a decision made by the Environment and Transport Committee on the return of the 79th Environment and Transport Committee on the return proposal. The bill on the 2nd. but the adjustment included a helmet duty until 18 years of age to 15 years. Instead, I find that the adjustment that we now vote on as the commission suggests that helmet duties reach 16 - year - olds, adding one year to our helmet duty from what is now two instead of the original proposal. In this way, it will be time to look into the matter further before the legislation takes place, which will take place at the coming year, while recent research from Denmark and elsewhere shows very growing helmet use, e.g. in Denmark, which significantly reduces the risk of head injury by up to 50%. I accept the proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u130	A respectable president. I'd love all to wear helmets, of course, but the Council doesn't make decisions like that. The General will not make decisions and then look for information and data that will confirm their decision. First we look for information and information and then make an informed decision. That's why I say no to this change. The data can be collected first and then decided before the law works. That's the right way to make decisions like that. That's why I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u131	A respectable president. I'm not going to repeat it, but I'm going to say why. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson passed over earlier. I'd also like to mention that one of the big safety concerns of bicycle riding is that it becomes public, that people ride a bicycle, and that their traffic is used to being run around. You've noticed in Iceland, especially if you've been traveling around on bicycles such as Holland, Denmark, and elsewhere, that Iceland in general is not accustomed to very heavy riding. That's what we need to change. That's the biggest safety point. When everyone is accustomed to having a bicycle ride, safety is growing, part of which is not being unnecessary for bicycle riders, young or old, beyond what is necessary. Therefore, it must be demonstrated that this is necessary, at least for it to be useful, and at least to wait until the data are presented in a reasonable way. A senator mentioned earlier. So I vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u132	Madam President. I come up to thank you. Environmental and transport committees for handling traffic laws. It's a big day. I think this has been done by the executives for 20 years. Over the past ten years, it has been tried to bring a bill to the council that has been sent up to the Ministry, and it is therefore a real joy to see the fact that the whole body of Congress agrees that traffic laws to improve traffic security and to explain the rules of the procedure in the strict manner here made. Say and you can't stand together on one of Iceland's most sunny and most beautiful days. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u133	Madam President. We're here discussing the continued systems of the climate. I think it's safe to say, until then, that this group of languages, like so many others, has not been very successful. In fact, it seems that the bigger the issues, the more superficial the solutions are. I suppose we can all agree that climate issues are one of the major issues of this loss and coming years and upcoming decades. But if we agree on this, we must also be able to agree that there is a need to approach climate in a way that brings real results. But that has not been the case. Not long ago, in 2015, a so-called Paris treaty was adopted on climate issues, and I believe I have been involved in it signing a document, since we were Icelanders, and we are, all of us, willing to participate in the solutions that humans can get along with. Sadly, though, there is little evidence that that that solution will produce significant results, actually on the contrary. The UN's own data on climate change has now been proved that even if man fully meets the Paris meeting at the time man has set to complete that issue, the effect will be negligible, almost zero in terms of climate change or greenhouse gas emissions. It has to be a concern, but the concern is that humans will continue in the same course, continuing with performance measures, with measures that they feel are expected to be made to appear to be responding to a climate problem, without any progress being made. It is interesting to consider comparing the results of the United States with the European countries in dealing with greenhouse gas emissions, particularly interesting in view of the fact that the United States has been laid down to avoid doing their part in this regard. Of course, the United States has spent a very long time in the land of greenhouse gases. In addition, the U.S. government told them about the Paris convention. But what has been the case? In recent years, the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in the United States has been substantially greater than in many, most likely, in Europe. Why is that? Yes, it is not particularly because the United States has increasingly moved from energy production by coal burns and into gas - producing energy, but gas production, natural gas production, has increased considerably in the United States during the past few years with a new technology, known as the English language, which has been known as ◯frackering in English. I must apologize to Mr. President for not knowing the Icelandic word for that gas production. The result, however, has been that U.S. gas production has greatly increased, enabling them to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. But this is something that people simply want to overlook, which is very peculiar in view of the fact that the world's greatest disaster is mankind. However, they do not want or at least avoid looking to the methods that have produced real results in reducing greenhouse gas emissions but developing new and even, such as now characteristic, unfortunately, through today's politics and the proding of political politics, producing new words to describe things as if it solves something. Here's a bill that goes primarily on this subject, creating new committees, even new words, a new platform to discuss matters and wonder. In view of the experience, you are afraid that it will be all in the same book learn and so on, that instead of really looking at science and the ways that may be effective in these matters, it will be about verbalism and mention so that men can refer to the fact that this committee is, yes, active there, and these goals have been set. In this way we are working on this problem, although there is little progress in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Of course, this scene regarding the gas is related to the debate on energy efficiency in Iceland. We live in Iceland, making electrical energy almost completely or 100% with renewable energy sources, environmentally friendly, renewable energy sources. It has often been odd to observe the debate on energy processing here in the country where those who define as environmentalists have developed that this is activated, even though they are activated by the inducers which are consistent with the innovations in a frame plan, and have often and often simply put out on all activation projects. This is particularly strange in view of the fact that the energy produced here, of course, is useful to all the world in the battle against greenhouse gas emissions because it is produced by renewable energy sources. However, many individuals, who define themselves as environmentalists, have strongly opposed the fact that Iceland is capable of oil and gas processing in the Dragon area. They have even tried to break their plans, although research has shown that there is likely to be considerable natural gas, especially, that could help countries to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and at the same time reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It is clear that there will be a need to increase energy production in the years to come. The world's energy demand increases by about Two percent a year, and it's been doing for a minimum of 40 years, usually. This increased demand for energy alone by windmills and by such means will prove to be insurmountable. In fact, I made windmills for a special conversation about the third energy package and considered them in the second talk on this subject we are discussing, as it has been difficult to prove that the wind milling suit has fallen to the real reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Windmills are generally made from steel that is worked in China by incinerating coal and by extensive use of concrete and other substances that contribute to and increase greenhouse gas emissions and have not been shown to reach its lifetime. However, this is a special discourse. I mention this only in the past to emphasize that in climate matters, in this major climate issue, people need to develop a general view of things, examine the overall impact of the action being carried out, and look at things in the long term. Actually, the same is true in this regard, as in so many major matters, must try to assess the overall impact in order to make wise decisions that lead to failure to produce some results. Because I mentioned the use of gas and windmills, it can be summed up by pointing out that gastrins produce as much as windmills with only 1200 of that raw materials, i.e. metals and other items needed to produce the turbins needed in the windmills to deliver the same energy. Only one of many examples would mention the need to put these things into context, being serious about success in this regard. Iceland has truly contributed in recent years and decades. We produce, if I remember correctly, about Ten times as much energy here as the average European nation and we do it in a environmentally meaningful, renewable way. That is why it has been very strange, as I mentioned earlier, to observe what the discussion, often from environmentalists or persons who identify themselves as environmentalists has been negative to Icelandic energy production. Of course, the same applies to aluminium production. A lot of the energy we produce in this country is about to produce an aluminium that is then exported. Aluminium is a unique environmentally friendly metal in many ways, light metal, to produce the waste of vehicles produced from aluminium rather than much lower amounts of fuel, thus releasing less greenhouse gases. But aluminium can also be recycled almost indefinitely, and it is very successful in recycling. Once they have finished their role in one place, they are always recycled and have a new role in the future. The production of aluminium in Iceland probably releases about a tenth of what the same production would release in China, as there are aluminium plants in China, and more and more, driven by the energy that is usually produced and even almost always by carbon burns. Therefore, the fact that we will produce relatively large pages in Iceland is a reminder that we really do a lot of work to deal with the natural disasters that may result from climate change. But to be truly effective, we need to do better. Therefore, it would be helpful to discuss more real solutions than what appears in this bill, which are new names and even new names of parts. The solution will include It is in the beginning of my life that the world is becoming increasingly out of coal but also in technological progress. In this context, it is of great interest to look to the progress of energy production through garbage combustion. Today, plastics are spoken of, and many people see plastic hallucinations and seem to think that all the plastics used in Iceland end of the ocean. Well, that's not the case. In fact, more than 90%, even up to 95%, of the plastics flowing through the oceans have come from just ten rivers, ten rivers of the world, and not much of the plastic that is being used here in Iceland's most successful ocean end. In technology, plastics can now be burned even environmentally but gas. In such solutions there may be a huge opportunity, for instance, to form in the countries I mentioned earlier, where these ten major rivers are, where plastics pile up and emissions rise each year because of population growth and increasing economic activity in these countries, if humans simply use the technology to burn these plastics, change it into fuel, to a kind of gas, and then to burn it as environmentally and even environmentally as they do the natural gas. Of course, history shows that there are other types of garbage that can be burned along the way. But the plastic has been the most contaminated and the most greenhouse gases released. By bringing in these new waste-incinerators technologies, the maximum emissions due to plastic incineration would be considerably less of the other waste than the amount of greenhouse gases being released on each energy unit. In fact, the most environmental energy - related energy source incinerator uses modern garbage and produces energy or electricity. For example, in Oslo, very large incinerations have recently been constructed, providing that city much of the city's energy demand. Although Norwegians do not generally lack energy, as humans know well, and have many features, they do use technology, make use of technology, make use of technology, see opportunities to burn waste and produce with relatively environmental energy. Why do humans not view such solutions? Why do people not view it as scientific and true and work, but rather, rather than stick to virtual and new committees and groups of work? I fear it is for the very reason that at the beginning of my speech, it is the nature of today's politics that the bigger the subject is, the more attention the subject receives in the media, the more important the action they proclaim or want to attack are to attract attention, to be visible, to show the virtues of the individual politicians or political movements. As a result, these political discussions are far worse than floating along the current or even sailing in the stream of discussion about these matters, searching for the scientific and real solutions, as they can be complex. Of course, they may take time and often during times. But if we are serious about dealing with the problem of increasing greenhouse gas emissions, we will not succeed unless we allow ourselves to seek solutions that really work. I'm going to mention at the end of my first talk on this matter, and I want to say that I'm going to be better on many of the technical aspects of later speeches, that I'm going to mention in particular the great discussion that has taken place in this country on action in climate matters, which is involved in shoveling in the ditch. It has not been demonstrated that this work works, and in fact many scientists have expressed great doubt that this will do the best. But it's obvious. It is possible to take pictures of yourself shoveling into a ditch and to argue that it is being contributed to the climate crisis. In fact, this may have a reverse effect. Of course, wetlands of methadone, which are 23 times more efficient in climate than carbon dioxide, are quite likely to at least some of these measures include increasing the emissions. This is one example of many of many of the same, all too many people want actions that can be photographed, that can be ignored as to the climate problem, without necessarily achieving the desired results, and that can even be counterproductive. However, it is quite clear that land transplants and trees are one of the most important equipment we have in dealing with greenhouse gas emissions. There should be something that humans could gain solidarity over, a significant increase in agricultural and tree crops in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] I don't think I'm halfway through my speech, Mr. President, asking to be reassigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u134	This will be the subject of the president, as well as to the members of the Parliament, which apparently translates as liquid fractions in Icelandic. Well, it's at the University of Iceland Science.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u135	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. I have to explain that I agree with that. A member of the Council of Paris could have been more radical, but it reached a historic agreement between all the nations involved. I agree with you, too. A senator with likely overemphasis on the recovery of wetlands when it comes to climate change and measures to avoid them when it is more appropriate to take measures to reduce emissions directly. But, hey. The senator spoke of the system of climate affairs. That's exactly what we need. To cope with the consequences of climate change, we need structural changes. I'd like to hear from what happened. A member of the council because he claimed that carbon dioxide emissions, one of the most polluted gases and the most destructive of climate change, have decreased more in the United States than in Europe. I want to know the evidence. A senator has the right to make that claim.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u136	Mr. President. First of all, on the basis of the system application, it is appropriate to make clear that if the network was to allow the system to function in order to actually reduce greenhouse gas emissions, it would be a positive system area. But the system area we're looking at right now is all, or at least To all too much, on the grounds I could about before. It is founded on committees and groups of consultations, and it is set up as goals without actually having the solutions to them, as though the Paris Convention is all too good to see. But because of him. A senator asks where I have the numbers, I keep them. United Nations and the U.S. Power Institute. Of course, this is quite different between European countries, and I mentioned that this applies to some European countries, but to form Germany, which strongly stresses the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, has not been achieved. Despite an enormous and expensive investment in especially wind mill gardens, Germany finds it difficult to reduce coal burns, including In fact, because Germany had adopted the policy of shutting down the nuclear plants of the country, every nuclear plant in Germany. At the same time, Germany buys electricity from nuclear power plants in France, which shows how much apparent these measures are. And at the same time: When Germany settles its climate accounting, it does not look at the effects of being elsewhere, for example, in China, because of its production of the steel that goes to the windmills and is produced almost exclusively by coalbrush.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u137	The president forgot to mention that there were three of them. Congress requests an answer for one minute to be answered in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u138	Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson for the answers. I would like to receive in the second issue of exactly which United Nations report he is referring to because in a more recent article in World Economic Forum since January of January this year, the latest figures of national emissions show that China is at the top of the world's top with a 29% greater emissions of carbon dioxide, except from flight and shipping. Afterwards, one of the most polluted land, the United States, still responsible for 15% of carbon dioxide emissions. Third, India is responsible for 7% of contaminated emissions. Other countries follow up with about 2% of global emissions. It's Russia, Japan, and Germany. So I still scratch myself a little bit over that claim. The senator's success in reducing emissions because the United States is not a part of the Paris Convention and the declared policy of the present president of the United States shows that in that town, there is not much desire to resist international commitments when it comes to climate. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u139	Mr. President. I now did not claim that the United States had stopped releasing greenhouse gases but that by the time it reached its peak, it would have reduced emissions. I described that as the most important reason why people have become increasingly using gas than coal in producing energy. But that's right. One senator says that China is past the United States, and it is likely that India will, too, do the same, in which this problem is growing. But I'm not making anything small about the United States, this vast industrial power, of course, releasing enormous amounts of greenhouse gases, and I'm not going to defend the climate policy of the United States government. I'm only pointing out the fact that this has reduced U.S. emissions, even though they are not members of the Paris Convention, especially since they use more gas than coal. This shows that carbon burns at the cost of gas are effective.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u140	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The speech was given to Davíð Gunnlaugsson. It was wide and wide over this big issue, which is naturally large that in many respects it is beyond my understanding, for we are talking about the earth's atmosphere. I have described that I have been a little reluctant in this matter in the first place to swallow the fact that we have a problem and how we can cope with it. You've been waiting for some kind of action plan that's part of this bill. All right. Many of the world's nations have agreed to take up action against the climate and the local communities, and they have also discussed how we can apply ourselves, even taking the lead in climate change to get us better on the map as to who we are and what we are. I would like to ask myself, " Is the senator making a living, leading to this, in simple and short terms, how can we meet the unique situation of developing leadership on a universal scale? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u141	Mr. President. I think we'd have an excellent chance to be at least A leading nation in that area, though only in view of our having ahead of all other nations, so to speak, achieved the transfer of energy into renewable energy. Of course, the experience and knowledge that have been built up here in Iceland can become available to nations around the world and have begun to do so. In Africa, for example, a number of funeral projects have started with Icelandic assistance and especially China. But like a dog. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryenlfóttir mentioned earlier the release of the Chinese today substantially more greenhouse gases than any other nation. It is quite surprising, in effect, to look at tombs and plots that show the growth of such emissions in China. Far beyond any expectations or hopes of people since the beginning of this initiative to become an international event with contracts, to form Kyoto, China has gone far beyond, I think it is safe to tell the greatest pessimism predictor of emissions. But this is especially due to uncontrolled coal burns of energy production in China, the coal burns that is used to produce in the country. Of course, in this large country there is an enormous structure, but products are also being produced that are then transferred to the West, and carbon burns and energy production are not in the climate markets of countries that receive the goods, but China that produce it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u142	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for that answer. This is an interesting subject. But I'd like to follow because I'm looking at us in Iceland in connection with carbon tracks and stuff like that. Now we've been discussing that issue with the carbon tracks. Great transport is available between countries by ships and airplanes and by people alike. How does the senator imagine that we would become more sustainable, e.g. in food production and so on, and reduced carbon lines due to the import of food? Similarly, when it comes to flying, it is a very delicate matter: How can we deal with that in the way of carbon tracks? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u143	Mr. President. First, to the first thing about production here at home and the increase in home production, this is especially true of food. This is just a vivid illustration of what you can do to have a truly positive effect, and I had actually thought to make it a subject for a special talk later in the discussion. It is very interesting to consider how important it is for the environment that we protect ourselves from our own food production and how strange it is to see how food production is made at the same time by those who, in many cases, consider themselves to be environmental warnings. For the tourists, I have always found it very strange to write emissions from tourists who fly across the country or land here in Iceland. I'm sorry I can't finish this, but I'll be better able to get into it later.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u144	Mr. President. I have to admit that I am, like the what. A senator, only thinking about the previous part of the bill presented here. Now there is no room for climate to be a constant project, and it has never been as urgent as it is today. Today, we have had for several years, likely since 2016, the climatic Council. Which is, as says here in Article 3. and on page 24. 2 on the bill, by permission of the President: The European Environment Agency shall be responsible for the management and counselling of the policies and objectives of Iceland's climate-related policy. The bill presents a special project management that shapes the steps and supervises the implementation of measures. I just wondered: " Is this not the same assignment? And second, we have here the Environment Agency, a very strong and powerful organization, which has been very carefully promoted in the past few years and should be monitored for air quality, etc. I wonder what. A senator understood this, because I didn't quite understand. Is it the task management that then supervises the climate crisis program, which is monitoring the government again? Or is it the opposite? I also wondered if either the project management is taking a project from the EEA and/or if there's some supersede at that facility, along with a climate council. Since I don't get it that way at first, I wanted to see if I could. A senator has noticed this and has developed a view of how it works and works together.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u145	Mr. President. No, I haven't quite figured it out, but this is what I mean when I talk about the system of this group. New projects, councils, committees, even agencies have been developed in order to discuss these matters, without showing how this new arrangement will be more efficient in finding real solutions or implementing them. Like what? A senator rightly mentions that we already have agencies to deal with these issues, so I would prefer to spend more time talking about the institutions we have and what methods, which projects, are best reduced greenhouse gas emissions than to complicate the matter by flaunting new mission governments to do the same - or by fearing that it is the case - to be able to say, "Look, we're doing something. We started a new piece of advice, with a name that should fall to show that humans are actually attacking. Of course, this is a challenge in many areas, that humans often react frequently by confusing their options, exasperating the circumstances, in solving matters, rather than focusing on the solutions themselves and solutions that really work. The danger of these ever - increasing complications is also that this system becomes increasingly unintelligible and even becomes caught up in some round thought, such as shoveling into a ditch, that it becomes a systematic thought, where one committee backs up the other in maintaining something that may not really work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u146	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. There is, in fact, something else that I've only wondered about, just because of it. A senator said about shoveling in a ditch: Now you have heard different opinions about whether it works or not. The question is: Knows who. The senator's research accounts for the claim that shoveling in a ditch prevents carbon emissions? In particular, you have heard that now you should shovel back into older ditches, which have already released a lot of carbon, to make new swamps that then release more carbon. I'd like to ask you what. A senator knows whether he has seen or heard from studies that support this doctrine of shoveling in a ditch.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u147	Mr. President. I've just tried to study it as much as possible and had thought to give a special talk on this matter, to recover a wetlands as it is called, and then two if one speech is not enough. But I'll give it to you now. A member of the recent edition does not have research to the point that this can be determined to produce the results of the advocates of this method. In fact, evidence has been provided, and it has been written on fine branches, including In the farm newspaper, that these actions can produce reverse results, i.e. harmed by emissions, for example. A senator mentioned. But I will consider this better in a special talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u148	Mr. President. I'd like to start my speech a little bit by the bill. It first discusses a plan of action, and that is the best case. As we know, climate has become a major and important category, both national and international. We are indeed reminded of the changes in climate and the consequences they have had. So this case is a good case for me. But there are other things that I might want to come on that is related to it. Like, for example. The tax-based role, which, in my opinion, is quite broad and has to do with all the people and especially the country. I'm going to come into that later, Mr. President. In this regard, it is discussed that a minister has a climate action programme and suggestions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase carbon binding in this country. As I said, it's obviously very important for men to have a plan of action. However, it is as important that this program is practical, followed, and successful. This is very important to bear in mind. A promise cannot do in these matters. There must be a targeted plan on how we will achieve these goals, such as. It's about the Paris convention. I'd kill because it says here, by permission of the President: The protocol should be reviewed at least every four years, taking into account international commitments and government declared targets. It is good to review this program, review how well you have done, what you can do about it, etc. In her type, says here, and here, she's going to agree with interest stakeholders. I don't think that's exactly what this means, but I think it's very important that there's a consultation, e.g. the national employee movement, the interest organisation when it comes to housing and these factors relating to the index. Because taxation of this type naturally affects the index of consumer prices, etc., household resources. That's why my opinion is, like, For example, it is very important to consult the European Union of Iceland. What is the effect of this taxation expressed in the carbon account - which I review afterward - on the homes of the country? It must be evaluated, e.g. in view of the effectiveness of our efforts. What do the carbon taxes have to say? Is he making progress in the climate? Are we able to reduce emissions? Is taxation the result of a reduction in emissions? These are all very persistent questions that need to be answered. Mr. President, I think we have a question from what? paritaprevir The Ólafur Ísleifsson of the subject of whether it would be possible to determine how effective this taxation is already at the disposal point. If I recall correctly, the result cannot be determined. It is in itself something that we need to review, for having such a tax system is not something that can then fully be said about the results. But this bill is good in many ways, and it's good to have a plan of action, as I say. We haven't done enough on this case, unfortunately. We also need to ask ourselves, " What expectations do we have for this bill? ' In this regard, it is intended to appoint a climate Council that has the responsibility to provide governments with access and advice on the policy decisions and goals of Iceland related to climate and then the projects are listed in the bill. It is still said to ensure that in this council the representatives of employment, university, rural, and environmental organizations, as well as other representatives considered necessary to sit in the council at any given time. I believe, Mr. President, as I mentioned earlier, that it is important that there comes the employment movement that, simply because of what I traced earlier. It then discusses the state climate policy and that the Board of Management sets up climate policies and businesses in the majority state's tenets. A policy is said to include a defined target of greenhouse gas recession and carbon balance. It's all good and good, and I'm with you. That's a good definition. Except for what I mentioned, that, in my opinion, it is necessary that the employee movement be there. The next chapter discusses a report on the effects of climate change, and it shows that a minister regularly provides scientific reports on the effects of climate change and community in Iceland. Of course, it is very good that these reports are over, especially in order to monitor the results and what the parties are doing in these areas. Of course, scientific reports are very important in this regard. But I'd like to stay with the reports for a community in Iceland. Hv. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryenlfóttir did this before quite well in answer to the fact that this was e.g. The agriculture and the fishing route and various fields of the industry But when it comes to society, you think that the people, the settlements, the people who live in the capital area, etc. I think it's necessary, as I said at the beginning of my speech, that this will be appreciated, i.e. the impact of climate change and their related activities on the region. I believe we have shown in the Middle East that taxation is not equal to the population when it comes to carbon tax. We need all of this and to have evidence of these matters in order to arrange for the success to be the greatest, while at the same time, for the whole nation to sit at the same level. Let's not forget it, like a dog. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryenlfóttir said that not everyone can afford to buy a truck. Thus, public transportation is very important in these areas. However, in order to achieve the success of becoming a carbon shareless 2040, public transportation has to be made so that those who cannot afford a power vehicle can use it. Of course, as many as possible are encouraged to use public transportation. In Comb 4. they discuss that the EEA is permitted to require government, government, business and business organisations, data and information relating to historical and extrapolated emissions, as well as information on policies and measures in their activities. It states down here that this data is obliged to deliver the Agency and without a pass. That's what I traced here only in answer to what's happened. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjörndóttir. I think it's a little fuzzy, Mr. President. Is it possible that they can be proposed to a small company with perhaps two, three, four employees, that they will provide some kind of EEA action programme, if desired? I guess that's not what the legislature wants. This need to be made clear, and the point was made. A senator earlier, an executive, thought this would be for a bigger company and a government firm, and I assume it is. This seems to me to be inexplicable in the law, and I did not realize that there is anything specifically mentioned in the report on what is meant. It simply says that there is a way to change the responsibility of data in a Minister's Regulation. In my opinion, it's something that needs to be more settled over. It is this way in law and law must always be clear, and therefore it is important to settle this matter a little more fully, that I think. Then it is appropriate to mention the so - called green taxes, which are at least an important way of reducing emissions. In this regard, it is important that they produce results. It was here, for example. Talk specifically about flying a plane, i.e. Air travel, extreme exposure, and significant impact on climate. However, I believe that airlines or airplane producers should be required to improve their actions and improve motor functions, as well as other factors, in order to minimize pollution. It should not be, in my opinion, always the solution to the taxation becoming more important to the public, but the business needs to get involved in these products, such as airlines and airplane producers. Next time, Mr. President, I'm going to step on the carbon tax. I don't think he's thought enough. This was part of the Treaty's covenant to establish a climate plan and plan of action. All right. What has also appeared to us from this government is a significant increase in tax returns in this area, i.e. The carbon bill. It is a new tax in Iceland, and it is now budgeted for 2019 that income of carbon paid is estimated to be about 5.9 billion this year. The price has risen in this government in a very short time by 50%, since 2017. These taxes are not all directly related earmarked measures in climate. Actually, only one of them is failing to act on climate issues. It is not possible to be taxed like this to the public when only a bit of the tax flows into the union they're actually meant to fit into. As I mentioned earlier, it has happened at the highest level. Environment Minister that it is not possible to determine fully whether these activities in climate, the tax system, are effective. There is something that has not been shown accurately. I have thought, Mr. President, and we all in the Central Party, that the rise in carbon bills is modest. Of course, we emphasize that this is a very important group of subjects and that it is very important to take care of him. However, we must try to find a solution that produces the most results. This may not always be the main concern of the tax system. You have to face it. The next year, an additional increase in tax rate is expected to be 550 billion. K. in income, including the side effects of worthwhile taxation, i.e. these increases. The amount of carbon pay will be around the end of the year. 11K. Every quart of gasoline and less than 13 taps. Each litre of diesel. These fuels are especially bad for the country. That's a fact. There is, therefore, evidence that by means of the carbon charge it is taxing the population of the country beyond that of others. The end of the electrical vehicle problem, as we know it, is much easier here in the capital area than in the region where the infrastructure is much higher in the capital area. Nevertheless, electric car owners have complained that electric cars are in no way satisfactory in their capital. Well, then, in the country. The internal structure is simply too far off. In addition, inhabitants of the country use a much greater extent of automobile fueled by fossil fuels, i.e. diesel and gasoline, and because of distance, they buy more fuel. There is thus good evidence that this tax recovery, as I described it here, increases in gallons of gasoline, and increases in liters of diesel, would be less affected in the country than any other country. It is quite clear, however, that if the aim is to reduce pollution, due to the increase in carbon pay, environmental activity should be reduced. Not so, Mr. President. You're right to keep it up. The main objective of the carbon account, as we know it, is to encourage both homes and businesses to reduce emissions by switching to cleaner energy. That's what we know. But, first of all, there isn't anyone's chance of switching to electric automobiles, as I mentioned earlier, simply because not everyone has the resources to do so. Second, such as electricity vehicles are still suitable for the region, such as this one. In agriculture. Then it specificises, e.g. to the limit of the automobiles and the number of loading stations. Thus, in different ways, the population of the capital area and the inhabitants of the region of the country are affected in different ways. I see it, Mr. President, that my time has passed and I have not reached the end of this passage and wish to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u149	Mr. President. It is a pleasure to have a good time here at the Council and a keen interest, visible. We'll discuss a bill to legalize climate change laws, No. 70/2012, with subsequent changes (indicative and administrative support). I must admit, Mr. President, I'm a bit thinking about this bill. A few years ago, a so - called climatic council was set up that in itself had a central role. On page 18. 2 on the bill, number 3. ... whichwillbe 5. b on climate council, by permission of Presidents: The European Environment Agency shall be responsible for the management and counselling of the policies and objectives of Iceland's climate-related policy. Then it says: ▪ The Council's Verifications are in the process of: 1st Provide advice on shutdowns in greenhouse gas emissions and measures to increase carbon binding. 2. Giving advice on adaptation to climate change. 3. Plans for climate - related planning will be reviewed by governments. 4. Central education and information on climate issues to the public, companies, institutions and rural groups. 5. Provide advice on monitoring and the testing related to climate change. 6th Work on other projects that a minister once hides the Council. It should be ensured that the council will represent the sector, the university, rural and environmental organizations as well as other representatives considered to be in the council at any given time. The Minister appoints the Chairman and the Vice-Plant Council of the Climate. Climate should be impartial and self-employed. The four - year climate should be set up at the same time. According to Article 2, the task management to establish. The bill, says, by permission of the President: ▪ The secretary appoints a project management to counter measures and supervises the implementation of measures. Now, after reading this bill quickly, it's not clear to me whether it's the project management or monitoring of the climate control programme or vice versa. Then you can't forget that there is an institution in Iceland called the Agency, which has become stronger and more successful in the past few years, which has been going on. You wonder, " How many governments and a lot of advice is needed to discuss these matters? ' In the report, on page 18. 4, says by permission of the president: There is a reason to update various laws of the law and to set new laws that will strengthen climate management and help governments reach established climate goals, such as the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions to 2030 and noncarbonization in the year 2040.◯ I'm still saying, the Agency has even The role of air quality as well as climate management is to ensure air quality. In the Environment Ministry, there's a lot of knowledge about climate. So I have to ask again what purpose does it have to put one more government unless all you need is room to put your partners in comfortable jobs. I don't see that this is the point of strengthening it. On the contrary, it is a failure to disseminate. On page 18. 5 is listed as who appoints the current climate Council, and I'm not going to read it, which says that it is now to be allowed by law to allow a minister to expand in the climate council, as well as the task management. From a quick look at it, I could point out that the FIB had representatives in the climate council because it is a car owner who carries the main weight of the tax system to pay off the climate effects. In itself, Mr. President, when you look at the emissions of automobiles, it's the prime suspect in 3 to 65% of the total carbon emissions in Iceland. You ask yourself: " If you were going to go to a dam, would you start with some tiny heifer of less than 3% of the river's flow? I don't think so, Mr. President. I think you'd try to attack the factors that are far more involved in pouring out carbon than this. This was illustrated in a very good speech by reason of reason. paritaprevir Rása Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Broynfjörn's daughter that we should put this discussion first and raise climate issues above the top priority of the government at any given time. I couldn't agree more. That's why I'm really scared that men are killing these cases by distributing the charges and setting committees and hiring all the things you don't know exactly what to do with. You're going to get a lot of results on carbon emissions and start, as I'm saying, you're going to go for a 3◯4% attack, i.e. Car owners. There's been a lot of talk that energy exchange, a very noble, and all right - should be used in this relationship. At the same time as humans are planning to establish energy exchanges, there are steps being taken by two Parliamentary decrees and two primes to generate a pack of three, from the European Union, which will truly increase energy prices in Iceland. More and more are entrapmented by buying an electrical vehicle and are at risk that within a few years, electrical prices - that is, for filling that car - will increase dramatically. That's why I feel that these matters, climate issues in Iceland - everything they do and that they say is contrary. The goals we've had to achieve energy exchange, reduce emissions, etc., are small. Or, as you say, are at least paralyzed by those who intend to take part in this effort by taking measures that will greatly increase the price. Then there is something else that is not exactly in harmony with this bill and that is not exactly in harmony with what the government intends to do. A special waste tax to be returned to 1.5 billion next year and 2.5 for the next four years is now due. At the same time, the amount of money that goes into the environment in this country is reduced. And I say again, The words and deeds are not joined together, and the work of men is to be done, and what shall I say against themselves. Speaking of garbage taxes, it has rightly been said that estimating emissions from garbage dumps are very damaging to the air. In itself, appreciation is much more powerful than carbon dioxide when we reach a reduced level of air quality. There is, however, no place in government plans that you have yet seen to reduce the spread of waste. There's been an increasingly larger region. I mention, for example. Areas such as a asshole in Mireram, area near the Babostos, region in the South, where people have combined to harvest garbage from the quality of the Ranger County, and then the Skaftárfjords, and the east. All of this garbage seems to be being carried out as you please, without significant research before going through it. I haven't seen any research yet, perhaps there are those who demonstrate the effect of this watch, e.g. on groundwater. But let it go. There we are storing up waste for decades with a very high risk of decontamination. We are already burning a record in Eelfunus, which is not new to anyone, not new to cars, small or large. We are burning the record until it cannot be exposed to the atmosphere. It's a natural waste, like you've never seen before. First, a lot of money has been spent to harvest garbage in the first place. Then, after all the money they have gone to dig it down, the value of waste that we are not using will not seem to be useful but will be forced to burn the value of millions each year. Then we must watch the same thing, e.g. In the hole of a fool in Mimorm, in Eelphnes, and elsewhere, hath not been exemplary. So think the problems of garbage just disappear by growling it -- unfortunately, it isn't, Mr. President. Not so, and we must bite out of the needle with the consequences of this very long time. I think we have to look, Icelanders, at this point in a bigger context. We now watch unique features, and it appears that we first take some smallcomb, which, as I said earlier, is of substantial importance, is of limited importance, as is the low - power emissions of vehicles, 3◯4%. We're also going to, although it may not be directly involved, stop using plastic bags for partial waste, but this is a negligible part of what we should be attacking. In 20132016, the left - green members were looking for a bright light to point out what they had meant when they said that men should do something other than build a major plant - it was now before they decided to build the medium of Húsavík that burns a few tens of thousands of tons of coal every year - and then some senators said that their tourism was something else that green would have seen. I remember telling you, we talked about this good stuff. Senators of their time, I suppose it would be true that tourism was an excellent profession. But the worst thing about her would be that, first of all, she was completely contaminated, and secondly, she was likely to create low-paying jobs. I remember a few of the words I had at that time on that very point. As everyone knows, it takes no small air to travel to Iceland 2 million tourists or more every year and send them to their homes. Aside from those living here and going west through the ocean, although this activity has temporarily been reduced because WOW fell - which is now the subject of another discussion that will not be considered here. Then it was not observed that the two million tourists, however, would likely make a number of travel through the ring called. That means we're here with 100 rentals, and we have a few dozen thousands of rental cars on the market. There is no mention of these issues in the draft we see here. I say again, we need to expand the problem we're looking at, how we're going to solve it. Then there is something else that seems more fishy and that is about to shovel in a ditch. Many of the fine men have visited and discussed this point, and most of us agree that no direct scientific research is behind shoveling into ditches in an effort to prevent carbon emissions. So it is that the oldest of the canals we have here, perhaps in the country where people want to shovel; the swamps have already loosened the carbon that was in them, as the most skilled men think. That is why you ask: If we are really going to take steps that will address most of the factors in this matter, I am not necessarily sure that the results are hidden from continually starting more committees and advice. Then, without a doubt, if we agree to form this project management, which is to be worked either aside, above or below the climate board, we'll have to form some kind of conversational space so that these two bots can form opinions plus the EEA, plus the Ministry. So where are we? We may have a group of 50 who need to meet several times a year. I'm just saying, Mr. President, is it likely that this kind of overgrowth will bring us some results? At the beginning of the bill, it says, with the permission of a president: ▪ Secretary has a climate-based strategy to recommend measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase carbon binding in this country. The Action Programme shall assess the estimated costs and the assessment of the environmental benefit of the implementation of the procedure. Then comes this unprecedented task management, which should shape the proposals for action and the Climate Council, and it also needs to provide government support and advice on policy decisions. Then, as I say, we have the EEA and we have more institutions in the field of nature science that I thought would be a government counselling on how we can best behave in these matters. Instead of putting this matter into the hands of people who have become familiar, however, we continue to resort to committees and advisers. Then, again, I'm going to mention the Environment Ministry, which is our most skilled climate experts, one after the other, has participated in negotiations for both the Paris Convention and the previous Kyoto, et cetera. I can't help but see that these people are well aware, have knowledge, know, in order to be able to assist the government to get the best results. I see, Mr. President, that my speech lesson is about to end. I'm sorry, because I'm just beginning to discuss what I was going to pass on this subject and on this bill. So I ask the president to put me back on the rosary as soon as my speech session is over.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u150	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill to correct climate with a change in the law, where the government intends to take action against this problem. During the last few weeks and months, schoolchildren have come down here to the east, reminding us of the climate of the earth and showing us how our earth moans because of mankind's society. We continue to enjoy life, as it is called, but it is a synonym for eating and wasting everything as a hand on a fixed environment that is so extensive that there is no way to go over it in a short talk. This association with the mother of the earth is unprecedented in the history of the earth, and we must work hard to reverse evolution. We only have one earth. One barley ground. It's our responsibility. Government action around the world seems to be a weak end to any real change in order to address the problem of our own image of quality of life and satisfaction. In such a situation, not only action is needed but, above all, a global change of viewpoint. There's a single lift here, not just to Icelanders, but to the whole human race. Of course, I welcome the action the Icelandic government intends to take in these matters. However, a national automotive decommissionation of a local motor vehicle in only a chicken - fat relative to total emissions is under way. This is similar to the neighborhood's waste, but in most neighborhoods, there is some mess that fills its property with car wrecks and various kinds of junk and can hardly be accessed to the house for garbage and junk - getting ready to clean up the upper closets. The acidification of the sea is a complex problem we should be concerned about, especially with Iceland. The warmness of the sea results in a shift of fish stocks, although new ones are expected to replace them. This latter point points to the lifeblood of our Icelanders, who are the way to the sea, and we are under obligation to endeavor to use our influence to counter measures as soon as possible. We need action, and here we are, Icelanders, to put us in the front row. I thank the schoolchildren for sticking to our material. Mr. President. Actually, at the High Council, we haven't talked about anything very much about climate. The talk has been superficial, mainly by starting committees, groups of work, and advice or by setting up agencies or institutions. When actual action is to be considered, the key factor is to pave the way for taxes. They are known as green taxes, such as the passing of heaven to the left classes, which, as it is known, seem to fantasize an increase in taxation every night and have ideas that appear to be infinite in these substances. And they manage to drag the scariest among Iceland's right - to - face independence party on their bus. Mr. President. Of course, I'm referring to the fuel tax of carbon without any investigation to whether it has any or some success in climate such as the stated objective. This is how it is taken, e.g. ... witha carbon onfishing and making-up. It is an all - out payment regardless of the fact that in this industry, by electricalization of fish industry, by restoration of the fishing fleet, and by general management of the article that everyone knows, in new technologies and new ships, has succeeded in reducing the carbon footprints of the article in recent years. The work programme has thus reduced emissions of greenhouse gases by 54% since 1990, far beyond the Paris Convention. Thus, she has met with the Paris Convention and better, but this industry is covered with carbon pay. In all competitive countries, this industry enjoys a special release on such taxes as the carbon tax, but it is taxed here by costs that are not yet available, whether or not they give out their real, declared purpose. Mr. President. There is no study to determine whether this tax will bring real environmental success. Rather, it seems to be just another tax. Mr. President. I've been talking about the expansion of forestry ever since I first came into this council. The development of new forests has dropped significantly over the past ten years, with a total of about 10 million plants a year down to 3 million these past few years. The government's reporting a huge increase in this, but the budget is only visible to a small extent. If the forest is to be increased to what it was before a crash, much more is needed. Plants, plants, and plants must be started and introduced that want to seed seed already if they are to succeed in starting a new plant within five years. It takes a few years to build a station, and it takes several years to build plants in such quantity. I've been talking about how we should plant at least 12 million plants a year. It is a real contribution to climate because forests, especially tree species such as the one, quickly bind enormous amounts of carbon. There's plenty of land here, mostly deforestation, so the opportunity's right in front of us. I call for action on this level, serious operations so you can get into this. Mr. President. More importantly, forestry is not just a bond of carbon, forestry is a future job. This is a work that will not disappear overnight, as many other jobs have done, especially in rural areas where earlier governments have supported extraordinary sectors, such as fish farms and fur farms and other things over the years and all know that story. There have been massive contributions that have quickly disappeared and become like a rusted monument to all companies. The forest continues to exist, providing long - term opportunities for the people who live there after 20, 50, or 100 years. In the long run, forestry is a source of employment and profit across the country. I have spoken not only for forestry but also for better waste disposal, i.e. Trash. I proposed a few weeks ago for a convolutation of garbage treatment. The model is from Denmark and, in fact, from more countries. Lands that are prominent in these areas have taken up the risk of deforestation, as most have done so far, but are burning it in the most environmentally friendly way possible by means of so - called high - tech garbage dumps. The waste is being recycled much better than before, and the fire is controlled much better. There's a higher temperature on fire. The gas generated during the burns is also burned at a later stage, with a filtered, complexized, nearly pollution free. In Iceland, we became about A total of 140,000 tons of municipal waste each year, 140,000 tons, mostly here in Eelfsnes, but also in several parts of the country. Although we are at these stations trying to win the metals that are worthwhile, much greenhouse gases are released there. The gas that comes up there, if it goes up into the atmosphere, pollutes 25 times as much as if it is burned. I believe, Mr. President, this is an opportunity. It takes a lot of money to set up a station like this, but we shouldn't look into it when it comes to such an important matter, which is reducing greenhouse gas emissions and reducing land use. As we know in Reykjavík, Gufunesi, a land full of garbage. What was this called in Gufunesi, parks? There were garbage dumps, garbage parks, and likely this land will not be built just in the near future. There is a great land in Eelphnes, and in other parts of the country. This has an impact on the environment, both waste and pollution and emissions, and most important, these are causing high and sustained groundwater pollution. All kinds of contaminating substances fall from these dumps into the soil and pollute groundwater on large areas near them. And when the place is near the sea, it's leaking, of course, to the sea too. Everyone knows what kind of material there is, all the rest of drugs, toxins, and the others, and the very contaminating substances that people dump in the garbage dumps even though modern recycling has become much better and much better than it was just a few years ago. I'm going back to the fall where there's such a good subject. If we were to build a garbage incinerator, which is currently in Copenhagen, as another 400,000 tons a year, and is practically in the central city of Copenhagen, so low is it, it would be a total of waste for Iceland. Even if, as has been the past few years, an enormous increase in waste, even if garbage continued, such a station would last for many years. Another thing I'd like to mention in this connection is the location. Of course, it is better to keep it where most of the garbage is in order to avoid driving through any garbage dump. There's another viewpoint I'd like to mention. It is not far from possible that such a station, perhaps a smaller station, would be best located in cold areas to form in the West, where there is no electricity. Only 80,000 tons of stations that would take one third of the garbage in this country would largely eliminate the demand for electricity from the West. As an injection into the system in the region, it would also enhance the electrical security. Granted, some of this would require a long drive, but we might imagine that one such station was in the West, and then perhaps a 200,000 - ton station near the capital area, which would be the least of it. Today there is only one station in Iceland that burns garbage. There's Kalka in Smokeynestown. That station only burns over 12,000 tons, which is right for about 5% of all garbage. But in return, Mr. President, there is the burning of all local hospital wastes and most industrial wastes. We'll be able to dispose of it there, or we'd have to move that garbage to a foreign land with all the emissions that such transport would require. No longer can Mr. President, we Icelanders who want to think of us as a environmentally friendly people, are digging tens of thousands of tons of garbage into some land filling or soil near the capital. Water may be one of mankind's most valuable resources, and we are in this country where water resources are inexhaustible, can't be known for digging garbage everywhere. We can't. We've got to do something better. If we are to be the model we want to be, then we need to turn away from this course. When I made this proposal for Congress, I got a lot of senators with me on it, and I hope that in the fall when I put it back, they'll still be more because it's one of the best environmental issues we can talk about. In spite of the incinerator, less greenhouse gas emissions are used than in waste disposal. Waste incinerator's less emissions. While such costs are certainly a threat, they are only profitable in the environment. I'd also like to point out, Mr. President, that today rural society costs a lot of money driving garbage between parts of the country. Such incineration would also result in more pressure on both household waste and other wastes to be classed so much better than today simply because this type of incineration needs to be considered for every occasion. This would also increase recycling, which, of course, has improved dramatically in recent years. I think we still have a lot to learn about there, and we need to do even better in recycling and disorganization. It often seems to be that way. People are sorting the trash, and they have even heard reports of how people are sorting household waste and returning it to a number of parts, and then all of it lands in the same area of emergency. Mr. President. We need to do better in these matters, and I'm here to finish my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u151	V.E.G. President. In this bill, to correct the change in the climate law that we address, there is a difference between the two of us. proposed to add a law definition of carbon equivalence. That's what counts, including. on the implementation of government climate policy. It is suggested to meet the Paris Convention's objective, or as stated in chapter 3 of the report entitled The Basic Issue, by permission of the President: To ensure that Iceland achieves the aims of the Paris Convention and other international commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, as well as the government's aims for noncarbon. It is expected that measures of action will be updated less frequently than every four years, taking into account international commitments and government declared targets. However, governments feel that it is proper to reexamine the plan quickly. Two. Section 5. Law on Climate, No. 70/2012, consult stakeholders without further development. It should be ensured that those who consult with them have the real potential to study the matter and to make such comments. Care should be taken to make sure that you have adequate deadlines. Each individual must be evaluated as stakeholders in the sense of the law. For example, a business care group and a business organisation would likely be considered always to be stakeholders, but many other people may arise. All of this seems to be in order, but it continues to be a new arrangement that requires adaptation to these climate changes. It is now established in the law of an effective adaptation strategy, and this is a major decision, so action plans must be made as there is reason to set down frames, adjustments so that governments and society can all prepare for these climate changes. The bill says that reports on the impacts of climate change in Iceland were presented, which I think is a very good case. It contained just the tips on how Icelandic society adapts to predictable changes if I read them correctly. It is considered important to plan such a plan, and by permission of the president says: ▪ In view of the Paris Convention's decision and continued climate change to work such a strategy to better prepare Icelandic society for future changes and to take counter measures where possible, such as designing ports and other coastal structures with regard to the rise of sea level. The work ethic and the content of adaptation programmes to climate change are not strictly laid down, but the climate Council intends to offer indications on this subject. Clearly, though, adaptation plans need to be based on the latest and best scientific knowledge and must be carried out by a number of people inside and outside the administrative system. I read in the bill that it is suggested that the civil climate policy laws be passed, i.e. The Council of State, State, and Enterprises where the State is the majority owner, the Council will become a model for others by introducing climate policy and carbon balance. So it will be interesting to see how the policy will appear and which line it sets and what steps it will take. This is still quite open, as the special staff appointed to the Ministry of Environment and Resources, the Ministry of Presidency, and the Ministry of finance are to offer suggestions for events, as mentioned in the bill. It also says that the EEA will provide counselling and we members of the local Parliaments will be aware of the EEA's procedures called Green Steps of Government and are fine ways to call real action. That's the approach we're supposed to transfer to the administration. It is not wise or wise to expect another committee or committee to be appointed. Real actions, e.g. growing plants are trees. There's a way that actually produces results and it seems to me that people are ready to take those actions. To illustrate just a few examples, I would like to mention work on a glass valley above Akureyri, where there is a cooperation between partners and companies. The Lions Club is on top of Isavia and Sunforests, and they call this the work of the Carbonifier Forest. The Facebook page of the project says, with permission of presidents: There are several reasons why the Lions Club Haggis attacked this project. First, there has been a lot of discussion about making up a so - called green scarf around Akureyri City, which gives the town a place of safety from strong winds down the Valley of Glass. Second, help with the work that is involved in making up the land, increasing our level of carbon, and thus drawing from our Iceland's carbon footprint. As I said before, the Lions Club Hing in Akureyri was a forest project, and trees are starting to be planted in a glass valley above Akureyri, and they invite society to share in that work by bringing trees or buying trees and carbon equals. All the trees planted there are cultivated by the sunforests in nuclear groves, that is, all of them from the inhabited earth, and that is, they are planting a number of species, such as rabids, larceny, birch, try, dump, and pine. They are identical in their two - year - old tray plants, so the plant that goes down in each region is reasonably available. This is an example of a very small volunteer assignment, and I feel that it is one of the projects I want to say is real action. Another project that I would like to draw attention to is a project assigned by UEFOK. The text page of that project says, with permission of the president: ▪ Yesterday and today, parents in the management board of their parents and school councils in over 30 schools, in Reykjavík, received bilingual plants from UEFOK. With this, we want to thank parents for giving of their time as parents. CONFIDENCE has been assigned land student fields at Heathermarks where the plant can be planted if it is chosen. There is another small project, so to speak, that, in the end, will be quite large and, more importantly, is thought of a future so intensely important in the position we are today. I'd also like to discuss only the government's contract and professional life on the site of cooperation and climate, putting all of this into context. So it is a cooperative site on climate and green solutions that establish the Basis along with 23 other sources. In this way, I would like to point out that the entire community is prepared for real action than the discussion of this contract and the cooperation site and how it is to function in the farm paper published on May 29th of May. The contract shows that the aim of the work site is first to improve the results of the climate and to provide a wide variety of contributions to the countries, both as successful as well as to what lies ahead. The use of renewable energy is referred to as being a means of transporting this product, as well as intelligence and solutions based on Icelandic energy and, of course, green solutions. This should increase the value of export. The second objective of the scene is that governments and commercial life work together with ambition, as stated, to take action in harmony with the government's goals. Also, there are four projects designed to be carried out by the European Union and, by permission of a president: 1st To present a wide variety of European contributions to climate in the past as well as the goals and policy to the future. 2. To ensure effective cooperation between government and professional life on climate - related activities, including noncarbonization in the year 2040. 3. To support the company's market and business development activities related to climate. 4. To run a presentation house for the reception of guests and shipping committees in which there is a presentation and education on the challenges of climate, the contribution of Iceland, and available solutions. These are quite a few important things I've been tracking and the site for cooperation. I think it's a little steep, unless you've already got some kind of operation plan in all those areas. I say I feel a little steep because on September 15, 2018, at the scene, I have a meeting, and I need to have roles and projects and how the setting should be done. It's also nice to see here that it will be in the hands of an Icelandic agency to hold the position of cooperation or the bodies of 24 organizations. There's an amazing lot at stake, and there's a lot of work to be done, and I say: There's also a need to get going. Since I am witnessing to the local farm newspaper, I would like to draw attention to an interview with the owner of the Gardening Centre Kista in Smokeholt, which today produces some 1,100,000 tree plants a year for foresting. Then we can say again: These are actual actions. It is noted in the paper that in the wake of the 2008 economic collapse, the government decided to put the sails together. They decided to draw together contributions to the forestry of the country, which had a negative impact on the activities of the Gardening Centre Kusta, and the owners were forced to pull the sails into the plant. Someone had thought that by 2008 it would have been the wise thing to do in forestry, to start thinking about the future, but these owners had to subtract the sails in the plant. However, they are now on the right side, and they base all their activity on the government's promise of an increase in budget for this project in the years to come, saying that it has produced similar plant production as before collapse. I'm pretty sure that more gardening stations here on the land were in their exact position at exactly that time. I hope we have good luck to think about the future. I think deforestation is a major factor in carbon binding. There are so many ways, there are opportunities, and many other things. This looks promising, and I hope that most people will hope that the government promises will be followed because it is part of a carbon link to the future. I have traced this talk to governments and a career community. I feel that it is equally important to consider the small tasks that are so important to me. I mentioned a forestry campaign at the Lions Club, and especially that we have an overall school that has been assigned to the field at the National Park and is the parent - school organization that is involved in planting plants there. I'll do it for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u152	Mr. President. First, I want to wish us all a wish, and the country in particular, congratulations on winning the game. I thought that all in the hall would react so slightly - except for a speaker who spoke the right way as long as she needed to finish the game. Of course, climates are the subject of our discussion. I might like to come in on the previous speeches tonight, just to frame things up. We'll find ourselves in a place where I think all or most would agree that there's a lot to work on the frame of action that works, actions in which energy is provided in many places where success can be achieved but less in projects that are more on punt and photographic, as it is sometimes called, at English, by permission of the president, which I allow myself to translate as a photographic opportunity. There's been an observation at home for the past few years where there has been a special interest in attacking the private car despite the fact that tests - and for the lack of extensive research, this is part of merely a combination of underlying factors - that the release of the private car is a very modest part of the overall problem. A recent subject is to dissect into ditches where it seems completely unclear what results are likely to be obtained from such measures. It even went so far to the highest level. Environment Minister has reviewed the fact that such information is not available but that it is working to better control the impact of shoveling in a ditch with regard to the age of cuts and so forth. At the same time, we watch another torture, which I allow to call, as is the so - called carbon charge. One would be if governments calculated that the carbon price would have its effect, i.e. control of behavior. The aim, then, is not to be paid for the undefined use of pollution in the atmosphere. The goal is to control behavior. And there, to be taken into account, a weak feeling of success. There's another thing that's the highest. The environmental minister responded honestly and openly here not long ago to the fact that there were no natural consequences of the carbon expenditures. However, at the same time as they are aimed at changing the behavior of those using fossil fuels, it is expected that use will be increased. This will take into account the development of electric cars and such factors inside them. In spite of these taxes, fuel use is expected to increase, and despite the potential for the introduction of tvs or electric cars, children are being cut off. It mixes with some special interest in increased tax returns and the thought that it can be done under the hat of green taxes. I think that this is where we're on the wrong road, and I think it's best if you take a few steps back and try to figure out what's going on in this material can be effective and what's more to show. There is another smell of the conversation that I have found to be a real problem with trying to dive a little bit. It is: Does it matter where the emissions are created and where the aircraft are listed? Now I give myself, without the full investigation, that the commercial fleet, the Icelandic company, is, on the other hand, has been the longest, registered abroad. Their ships'emissions will then likely go to books of some of the nations that have economic laws in this regard. At the same time, I'm going to tell you that we're beating ourselves for having a lot of air per person, the greatest in the world, and inspired talks are presented and presented in television shows that there's a person's emissions in Iceland the greatest in all the nations we know and compare with. I mentioned it in an answer or an answer earlier today. paritaprevir The Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Berry's daughter at her story talk, whether the senator, who is the head of the committee, would be interested in where to form an airplane's emissions. If this is the case, and the measure has made major progress in the environment in Iceland by bankruptcy of WOW arg. Would anyone think that such a approach would make sense? I can't imagine. No one would think that the bankruptcy of an airline is for the benefit of society because some excel pulse number will be passed on to some foreign organization or settled in after an incident. Of course, this does not make any difference, for these people who are being transferred must, whether they are across the Atlantic or if they are going to stop here on the way. It's just a move. I'm not very high school in these studies, but according to what I know, it's not everything that matters, and actually very little in this context, where the air is going. So, with the permission of a president, it is a glalt to be seen, so it is a global problem. That's how we're supposed to approach it. We're supposed to contribute solutions that can actually produce results into the world pool, if we call them that, but we're not supposed to be busy with it by some torture job to put one patch on the feet of another on this site-made wound. There's really work to do, but the energy is being set, that I think, in the wrong places. The focus is wrong. I think we just need this example here that no one would think that the bankruptcy of an entire airline would be quite successful in this context of taking the thought even further: what if there were no Icelandic airlines, it would be just some airline written anywhere in the world, just not here? It'd just be a hell of a success to be caught up in the environment, the emissions would go down as never before. We have to get out of this part of the discussion because, of course, he's thumping and not helping us. One source of this part of the discussion is the hatred of those who are deeply concerned. Of course, most people have naturally worried, but the leading group, I allow myself to say, have the greatest hatred of aluminium production in the country as long as I can remember, and especially during the last 15 years, something like this, even though I don't trust to nail it down to time when it began to form in the future way. If we take out the unfortunate sources of electricity that the energy companies are selling, so-called letters, and watch it with the production of energy in Iceland, I don't think anybody has to doubt that in Iceland we produce the most environmentally friendly aluminium in the world, the greenest aluminum in the world. So while we are not so shortsighted as to sell this proof of origin from us, the domestic producers, where needed, need to supply aluminium or other products at home produced by coal or nuclear power. As I'm saying, the focus is too much on punt operations. We're putting far too little energy into putting the emphasis where real results are achieved. One step is to think that it would be desirable for us to abandon the years of hostility here that has grassed up with the fine aluminium manufacturers here with their operating posts. If we look at aluminiumtons produced in Iceland, the same carbon track of an aluminium produced in Iceland, compared to a ton of aluminium produced elsewhere, so that no ton of aluminium produced in China, where pollution is the most behind each produced unit, it is obvious that we have contributed quite well to the global accounting for greenhouse gas emissions. If no production were possible on the basis of energy production at this point, the world bookbook would be in a worse position than it is now, and we should have the courage to discuss this on these grounds. We are not to be ashamed of our pure energy and the energy we stand for. We are not to be ashamed of this fine product, the greenest aluminum produced in the world; we are not to be ashamed of it. We are not to be ashamed of ourselves or to put ourselves in a position that is impossible because we had a short period of two major international airlines. I'm sorry, there's only one thing left. That's what we're doing for Iceland, but for the world it didn't work out. I make it clear that people in general are not traveling just to sit in the airport where it is available so that those who are coming to Iceland will try to come forward even though there is probably something a little tighter for a short time than those who had to cross the Atlantic, whether they were from America to Europe or vice versa, just find another way, like water, and pollute just as much as others would have been. The only change is they don't come here as tourists. Then we came to the next smell of my discussion that I wanted to use to frame the matter just in. It's touristism. The flight, of course, is one smell, but the tourists that come here are going through the country. A small proportion is on foot or bicycles, but all the mass is traveling around with either some form of human transportation but especially large now and growing with rental cars where individuals or families travel together. It also enters theulia. Gonna stand here--there's no representative of the government classes in the hall except the highest. A president whose aim is not to have a conversation at the moment - claiming that they were willing to squeeze up to the touristism here in the country with the goal of reducing the greenhouse gases produced in the Icelandic books, either by flight, by sailing, or by the international tours of the good visitors who visit us here, so that the cruise ships probably leave behind the roughest pollution in view of land conditions? These big things we need to talk about and talk about, and that's why we're getting some results are completely left behind in the big talk. Most of the programs put in place are well paid prices, and the plan of action used by the government now is, of course, as far as it goes, but in the large context, it does not reach very far. This was shown in the talk "Wicked. " paritaprevir The Sigmundur of Gunnlaugsson Gunollson, president of the Central Party, earlier in this discussion, are coming in from ten rivers that I think are in Africa and Asia, if I recall correctly, about 85% of all the plastic that goes into the world's oceans. Of course, it's fine that we try to do a good job here, and we're supposed to do it, but there's the big opportunities if you're going to have something to do with the plastic problem. I view it as part of the climate problem, although it is different from greenhouse gases and other factors, e.g. acid rain and the like of it directly follow the discussion taking place here. My point by mentioning this with the plastic is that in many places, if you think about it, you can achieve so much success if you are ready to focus your energy on where the big problems lie. While I'm standing here, I'm trying to recall an article I read a few years ago and focused on how the planting was achieved in Iceland, compared to the most productive areas in the world in terms of tree growth. Of course, if we're just looking at it this way, we'd better send every cent in the world, but we don't want it, we want it to be some ball of it. Therefore, like all the other factors, we want to do well to grow forestry and land healing at home while being aware of the other things, that more success can be achieved if you see problems on a global scale. If you watch these things globally, the big solutions and larger opportunities are much different from those in your home, but they certainly are at home in terms of energy production and energy efficiency. Because each ton of aluminium, each ton of silica, each ton of each product produced in Iceland, compared to the production of the energy from coal or nuclear energy, is just a once-in-a-day policy. And of this, we should be absolutely not afraid to be proud. We're just going to do a pretty good job on the books on the energy and emissions, and even though the rules are like that, while there's a lot of it hanging on the Icelandic floor, it's far more important that we look at what this is really like than how someone's misinformed cohesion systems in this world are holding around the system. I reiterate what I said in the beginning that no one would think of claiming that the WOW airline failure was for the good of the country because it reduced greenhouse gas emissions, since it brought only another. I think that while the discussion is in the way it is, it will reduce our success. That's what I wanted to say at the beginning of this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u153	President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It's interesting as hell. A senator came in at the end of his talk, whether anyone really thinks that there was some kind of blessing in WOW, that there was a fine airline working here, that might be a blessing to the environment or something like that. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Perhaps the person being present has not observed well enough, but is it really that people have spoken in the sense that the overall fall of their sociality is good for the environment and for the battle of Iceland when it comes to climate? I hope it isn't, because it would be very special if it were. I'd like to ask you, too. A senator, who is now a member of the Environment and Transport Committee, whether at any point he or she has been discussed by the government groups some positive incentives for the national energy exchange, for example, to get people to look more closely at their daily environmental activities. Or are these all commands and bans - increased carbon costs, increased tax returns, which is somewhat special in a government where the Independence Party is responsible for financial matters, that they are taking up higher taxes? I wonder if the senator wondered to use the tax system to encourage those who might want to change their car and repay some of the cost of having a electric car, whether it is through the tax system or something like that. Of course, we're down payment on these cars today, but we may be able to do more with positive signs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u154	A respectable president. Now, about the evils, we're doing something else today. It is partially responsible for the use of electrical vehicles or so - called hybrids, which run by gasoline or diesil on the other hand and electricity. It seems reasonable to be achieving, but it is, in fact, that in terms of the overall picture, this is also possible. I saw in some conversation earlier at the council that between 1 and 2% of cars in this country were clean electric cars, if I understood the story correctly, so it's a long way to the country. I give myself that these hybrid cars are much higher than they are, however, so much of they use conventional fossil fuels. While we do not know how much carbon costs can be used, of course, it is difficult to plan to use such devices for some kind of control. I remember those parking fees, but if I had more time to think, then I'm sure there's no way we're working with any more indiscriminate measures. But as for people to express themselves in the sense that they were very happy to have WOW stopped operating, it is now that, fortunately, it is not. How, then, will people, the same groups that have gone so hard on speaking in the sense that emissions are so great, show the next figures? How difficult it will be for them to welcome the success that has been achieved!
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u155	President. I agree that it will be reversed to demonstrate it. You are also wondering what this book is all about. Now we have in front of us the fact that it is, if I recall correctly, for a fund called the Wetlands Fund, which would strengthen the shovel being in a ditch. Of course, it is very good if it can be shown that it really is important, that it has some effect. Know what I'm sayin'? A senator, e.g. to suggest that such data were submitted to the committee, that, as well as so much, by taking the way to shovel into the canals? Someone mentioned in this discussion, I just noticed, that it might have some side effect, i.e. not necessarily that there is a result, that it just wasn't studied. I'm aware of that, but the question is, has such evidence been placed before the committee? The problem is not to be minimized, even if you have doubts about certain ways in which to handle it. Is it, e.g. Realistically, if we view the entire world as more and more people, even tens of millions of people each month, come to a place where we can travel? We see large countries in Asia, whether China, India, or other large states, where there is an enormous increase in middle - class population, or those who have it. Of course, these people will want to travel like the rest of us who have been able to. Should Icelanders, in some way, reduce their consumption or reduce their travel by adding certain taxes that reduce the ability to travel? Are we not, then, pursuing even greater social class? I think some senators are fondling these ideas.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u156	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. You suspect that in recent years, airlines mainly wrestled with the fact that income for each passenger has been too small. I think the airlines have to make up that position. I hope the cost of flight is as low as possible, but I'm afraid the airlines will earn up this functional position. Then I don't think it's preferable to make an additional increase in the form of taxation on the particular flight. It is often said in a joke that those who travel the most are the most complaining of other people's carbon lines, only on private jets at their fancy climate encounters. I don't think I'm going to put anything into the future unless something great changes, to stop people from traveling with a special tax system that's going to do that. Hv. A senator asked if data has been submitted to an Environmental and Transport Committee, which frames the results achieved by incision. I can see why. paritaprevir The little Anna Sævarsdóttir is in the hall, and I trust she shakes her head or nod, if I don't remember, but I think for the Committee it was spoken in the way that men think she's got some feeling, but not a solid foundation under those numbers. Isn't that pretty right, huh? paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir? Yes, I trust to answer that there is more to information missing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u157	A respectable president. I recommend a board of committees with a bill-changing motion to correct the changing of the Law of the Nation on the Matrix, with subsequent adjustments. The bill was originally brought by members of the Parliamentary Committee. After 1st. It was discussed by a board of administrations and monitoring committees, and this committee has discussed the matter and brought in guests and received reviews from three sources. The bill suggests that employment activities at the national park's national level should be banned without any agreement on such activities at the Parliamentary Committee. A bill is also provided for such agreements, management and supervision. I'm not going to trace the committee's opinion from a word to a word. Chapter 1 discusses protection benefits, but to the Committee it was noted that the national reservations of protection may be necessary to limit the number of people in a particular area of the park and to choose between parties who wish to do so. It was noted that such an arrangement can be found in the current law on a lakeland park, but since it had not yet been established as a professional policy and developed conditions for people to practice employment within the national park, it would not have been possible to enforce the limitation so far. At the same time, it shows that the model for this bill is applied by law for Lakehjörður. The next section on the shape of employment policy and the objective of the bill is to set criteria for meeting requirements for professional activities. However, financial and economic work is now being carried out in the shape of a special marketing agreement due to the use of land owned by the state. When that work is completed, it is important to make use of it as the basis for further policies on the provision of limited quality in national parks, which could lead to further adjustment. The majority claim that with this bill it is being granted to the Constitution Committee to set the criteria for professional activity within the park and to shape the employment policy for business there. The requirements may vary depending on the function. The Committee noted that it was reasonable to look to the objectives of sustainable development and conditions, such as knowledge of nature and cultural patterns of the park, knowledge and skills for the service to be performed, as well as security and quality requirements. It would also be important that professional policy create incentives for innovation. The majority agree with these views. A bill with the bill shows that the evidence for the National Park in the United States is that a small part of the park is within the national boundaries, but to the commission it is further explained that there is still a simple law that would not have to seek the permission of the local government, as expected in the law of national citizens, as rural governments would have other ways in their case. The committee suggests two changes to the bill. On the one hand, there is a suggestion that the law will not be valid until the year 1, 2020. This is done in view of the experience of a lakeland park where experience has shown that having enough time for preparation is essential. However, it is suggested that a phrase change in sentence or entry into words to explain that there is no doubt that the Constitutional Committee can make a suggestion to a Regulation as a minister then approved. It has to do with reimbursement and management of licenses to do business in the National Park. The majority of the members of the Committee suggest that the bill be adopted by these two changes. Under the committee, Chairman Helga Vala Velgaa Helgadóttir, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótttir, Brastr Níelsson, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Óli Björn Kárason, Þóstein Sæmundsson, and Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson. Jón Valdimarsson signs in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u158	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for his speech and for introducing this committee opinion to us here. I must admit that I had not been deeply involved in this matter, but I have wondered a few things. I heard that the senator mentioned that it was being looked at a Lakejörður National Park about the payout. This is stated in a special Regulation set out by the administration of the park. It'll hit me a little bit if we have the only government and the regulations and the licenses and things on the United States Field and others on Lake Bay, maybe still others on Snæfells, and then in other places as national parks grow. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether at some point it was discussed that it was simply a general rule of permission partying in this direction, i.e. With regard to national employment, pay, etc. I think somehow this would be a better option for a general nature, that, in fact, the same rules were true, even though the evidence can be reasoned that this is so, as it were. Then I'm not saying that there's always something bad to be a monkey after all, I'm just saying that it might be better to have this general rule that covers all the national parks we have and hopefully we'll get them to some extent.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u159	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. For the first time, I want it to be perfectly clear that the receipt I entered earlier is about the services due to be paid at the expense of contracts allowing, oversight and supervision for the other permit activities. There is no currency beyond that. This bill, however, is part of harmony. It is a step towards more harmonization in promoting employment policies and in creating consistent rules for the operation. But there's this chapter that I jumped over in the commission, which says exactly: ▪ The more part takes note that in a bill for National Park and national parks legislation, the Environment and Resource Minister is proposed to establish a consistent protocol for all national parks, including nationalities. National park on the Thieves. The bill is for the treatment of the General Assembly, but it is not yet available to settle the matter before the end of the council. However, if it is to be taken care of, or when this is done, more harm will be achieved over all national parks in the country. However, as the situation is now well under way, the payment of its bill will be completed and laid out by the Environment and Transport Committee, the procedure there, while this case was being carried out on a administrative and monitoring committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u160	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Somehow, it's a strange thing to be accepting a case like this at the same time as another case is being discussed. Although it may not be over right now, I assume the government groups are willing to put up with the challenge of completing that matter. If I get it right, I'm postponing the execution. I'm reviewing it, I felt as if it were a delay, but if it isn't, it's strange to have two issues going on at the council that could handle the same, although the rest may be delayed in some way. But I don't reduce the importance of getting some strings on an organization and something else over there. But the question I would like to bring forward here is, Is the senator familiar with any discussion that ideas or feelings are that some activity will be clearly banned within the park, i.e. has come to realize what kind of activity they want there? Or will it just be the committee that will do it with their policy and the like to decide what kind of activity they have within the national park? The question is, Is it safe to be reasonable or equal to be guarded? ' Now it may be possible to see an opportunity to work within the park, to pay a leave, and all of that. Is there a maximum number of leaves, too, e.g. About a pay sale or something? Will they allow lodging? Will they be on the basis of some maximum number and so on? Or how many buses can go through the garden every year and so on?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u161	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. The fact that we're dealing with this and, at the same time, there's a bigger issue here, just reflects the challenges of this series of subjects right now. Working in many places is important. What may require that this bill be approved now, although the value value is only after a year, it is the exact time needed to shape the sector. In 1st. says: The employment policy to be shaped by the National Park, including shape the conditions for persons to be allowed to work within the national park, including with regard to national protection targets and agreements The protective goals may limit what work is possible in the park. There's a water field that's sensitive and protected. For this, the Constitutional Committee is allowed to set up a Regulation as detailed in the terms of operating conditions, handling and making agreements according to these regulations, when the employment policy has been submitted and the minister shall confirm this Regulation. When it comes to the demands, it can be in many ways. In some cases, it is very simple. You just have to confirm that e.g. A vehicle introduced into the national park meets the safety requirements of both passengers and the same with regard to the environmental risk. In other cases, the requirements may be more complex, as with guide knowledge or so on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u162	V.E.G. President. This case clearly indicates that if I suspect that they are on the Þingalva committee, at least someone, I do not remember the composition of the committee, but it does not change the obvious fact that the movers will carry the national park's interests on the United States and the Þingvails, as we all do hopefully do. It's one of our biggest pearls, or the pearl, that we're most proud of. There is little more fun than going to the House and showing visitors and tourists who visit us, foreign visitors, or even to accompany Icelanders, children who have not been there before, and who are making them breathe only the story and try to experience what has happened or have been there for years. Then there is also the geographic history that there is tremendously remarkable and few foreign visitors have experienced the amazing adventure of actually being able to stand on two surfaces that shape this earth, the Americas, and the Eurasian leak, and being able to stand on them both at once and wondering how the earth's crust moves, I'm not going to tell on a day, but, of course, it does, for at least a year from year to year and how it occurs. Of course, when we discuss this contract, change or bill, you wonder how far you have to go to cover or have some kind of order or extramarital activity in your natural state or country. It may not really be that anything or any activity can exist within such desirable things. At the same time, we must be careful to keep the guidelines so that they are predictable, and most are at the same table. First of all, I wondered if there is some limitation of a species that allows, if you put it that way, it could be a maximum of ten people selling sausages, or whether you look at it, or offer a diving rod or a liquid with guidance on the park, or if there are any restrictions on it. I don't see that's the meaning of the bill. Also, there is no comment on how ten parties are being treated to run the same activity, and it is likely to be something that will be shaped in the job policy referred to as being to take place. But at the same time, it is clear that the committee is given quite freely with the way that this policy will look, at least as I understand the situation. It's normal, though, so I'll say it, tops. President, that there's some kind of rule of operation going on in the National Park, I reiterate it, i.e. In that certain conditions and quality requirements and such are being taken care of. Otherwise, you may wonder why work should be limited if it can be handled business and how well the pearl should be handled. Þingals are a place where I think some people might think of serving inside and then they'll have to apply for permission when it's fully developed. If this bill is legalized, a particular work will be started and those people who may be interested in it and may present ideas to those who will develop and establish the rules of the game. As it turned out in my objection to what. The head of the Committee opinion makes you wonder why this procedure is being carried out by the bill when it is clear that if the Environment and Resource Minister is accepted, it probably will not happen at this council, but if it is approved, for example, it will not happen at this assembly. In the fall council, this case is unnecessary. The execution is postponed. Then why is this going on? Not unless this is a step toward meeting the expectations of the Minister's bill, but at the same time people may not expect it to be completed in the form it is. Now I'm a little bit able to get into the gaps. It's a little special going this way, that I think, at the same time as the National Park bill is on the side of the council. In fact, I personally find it a completely ridiculous idea, this idea of National Park, to create another organization, another administrative tool in our administration system. I think everyone realizes that even if something starts with one or two employees, it calls for more and eventually blows out and grows. So I don't think it's right to go that way, even you might think that there might be a better way that, within the Ministry, there is simply an area that could be furthered up by national parks or that an institution is assigned that authority, and it agrees that the current functions are in some way. Now you're wondering about something in the future. But it is also all right to do so. It was shown that it is part of harmony with this process, that it is likely between national parks, and that those who want to do any job or service in the national parks will know or be able to see that one rule applies to the same thing. We can just imagine that a person who wants to perform the same service in two or more national parks, within two or more national parks, can then agree, or he can try to achieve a measure of economy in that function, even though the parks are in separate parts of his country. But this fine thing in itself is not solving anything about this arrangement. I think this is a good course. It's good to put our hands around the business and have some rules and shapes. It's necessary, I agree. What I find most interesting in all of this is policy, shape policy for the park, what kind of work will be in the structure and what we want to see there. It's a question of whether -- I'm not doing it at all, taking it out, minimizing the work of the members of the Parliament Committee, not at all. However, it may be wondered whether it is normal to have such powerful institutions, committees, or governments over the national parks, whether it is better to have more media control, or fewer people are involved. I'm not saying that's necessarily true. I'm just wondering. We're supposed to focus on trying to simplify the system in Iceland, reduce the number of units, not increase the number of them. Yeah, sync with what they say, make it all more obvious. That's not necessarily true, I think, to do it this way, i.e. setting the rules regarding exactly this, but it may be necessary during or in the absence of other rules. It is important, as shown in my counterargument, that when it becomes necessary to allow the rules to go, it is clear whether there is any limit to the activity to be involved, because once we have limited things, when we have said that this kind of work will be, but not another, so many licenses will be, but not many of these, we would have made certain limits of value. It is important to remember that all laws and all regulations for this need to be clear. We have seen it elsewhere in our operating system, where we have limited resources as an example or limitation of some kind of permission, that there is a natural constant criticism, which is just normal. So you might wonder, " Is there any danger of going along the way here, that this will lead to something like this, the work being done here? ' The bill focuses primarily on job activities within the park, i.e. that such a thing cannot happen except through contracts with the Þingvall Committee. I don't know about it, I have to admit, what arrangements are involved today, but it may be in the discussion of which rules apply today regarding who can practice employment in the park and who is free of all things, whether or not there is no cost or exactly what the change is. I also hope that the Parliamentary Committee, if she goes to the employment policy - a little strange to call it a professional policy, should be a service policy or something like that - i.e. what work is to be there within the park, doing it as publicly as you can, if you have it on tables, i.e. let us say that it accepts ideas from stakeholders, stakeholders who want to serve and have knowledge of such things, or if there were some kind of new creation ideas about what service might fit, mean, and take place within the national park. I also think it is extremely important and one of the reasons, whatever happens to the industry and the bill as such, that it is carefully shaped the requirements for business or activities within the national parks in Iceland, of course environmental requirements for loyalty, pollution and such, to be taken care of in all such ways, to have some kind of certification for it, and to the firm meets clear requirements. This is of vital importance, for if we are to build the national parks as pearls, we must be in the front of any one of these things. It is no less important than to shape a course for what is to be in the park. It can also be asked whether the committee will be given full authority. Farming is directly or indirectly linked to this field. Now I haven't gotten a chance to find out if there was a review from that source. However, the committee's opinion suggests that this is a simple view of nationalisation, i.e. the country's community does not need to be drawn when speaking of using land and rights within the national park, but will become a permanent member of the Parliamentary Committee. It would be peaceful to know how the local authorities have responded. It may be all done in a good way and should, of course, be delighted. That's an improvement, I'd say, in case it is. There are many things to think about when the committee, advice, or some members receive the authority proposed here. If the case becomes legal, we begin to shape employment policy. Note that the committee may need to set some kind of work protocols regarding the shape of employment policy and the future. It has to be through how the payer should be, for what is paid, what is included in the payment. How much is the price? What is really the management of which the price is due? This can't be some kind of a fundraiser. That needs to be clear. If this is not made clear, it must, of course, be explained when the Commission's Regulation becomes a reality. But that is also interesting, the highest. President, to find out what the rules apply today on what is being done here, i.e. on the job, on the management board, where each man goes to seek permission to start a business, wants to offer a service. Likely, a parkkeeper has something to say and all that is possible. It is a relatively simple administration if it is, a person can have an opinion of whether it is true. I'm not saying there's something wrong with that, not at all. I would have thought it would be very tempting to keep it very simple, if possible, but then the committee, as they have, overseeming the National Park. A respectable president. I think there's a lot of interesting things in this case that can help. You're wondering a little bit about the timing of the prime minister, which is probably on the environment and transport committee, and also because the element is returned and is not really until June 2020. It would be interesting to know that explanation. I realize that some day the Regulation on the terms of the permit will be shaped and shaped by a professional policy. But I would have thought it was a good time, one year, in view of the fact that we have a big case in the council that touches the import of non-frost meat, where there are many so-called counter measures, 15 or 17 operations, and there are three, four months in which the law should take effect. In fact, it would be a marvelous accomplishment that would be accomplished before the value will take place in that matter. A respectable president. The parks are of utmost importance to us. They're pearls. These are desirable things that we need to take good care of and take care of. Of course, we need to be careful to comply with the highest standards and rules. At the same time, we must not have rules that discourage people, whether they are doing service or simply attending our home these pearls, for it is never acceptable that nature is some playground or area for few. This must be so that all Icelanders, or most of our guests, can, in a good way, get them home, get a good service at a fair price so that they want to come back and forth to enjoy these wonderful places.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u163	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For his speech and the extensive passage of his language, Gunnar Sveinsson, son of Sólnsinn. He turned to factors that seem interesting, to me at least, which is plan and timing and the importance of it. That includes the word "woe. " A senator, number 2020. It's not far now. It would be very interesting if it were. A member of the council might take a more personal view of these matters. It is very important that all the preparations of the decision-making and implementation of the policy developed in the bill and that contribute to employment policy in this important area, Iceland's holy space. That's why I think it's important, because he stepped away from this particularly in his speech, that he would discuss a little more clearly what his viewpoint is on this and what it is that gives a special basis for comment on this aspect of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u164	V.E.G. President. First, there is a bill from the Environment and Resource Minister for National Parks on the Environment and Transport Committee. In the beginning of this discussion, it was stated that this institution is expected to become a reality, in effect, to take over the activities of this facility. In view of the fact that the law is not to be applied until 2020, the bill will be accepted, and you will wonder if there is no hope that this so - called National Park will become a reality, which I believe is a unnecessary institution. On the other hand, the question arises. A senator on a professional field trip. I feel like this should be a service policy or something, anyway, I think professionalism is something else, you know, you talk like that. I would like to be a part of your community employment policy, etc. If they're going to take a year to shape this employment policy, to sign a bill for remuneration, that's quite a bit more time, and hopefully we'll have most opportunities to get to that job. But I drew this into consideration, in view of the fact that a law on importing fresh meat from the European Union is supposed to take a high risk with Icelandic livestock and human health. Promoting measures are referred to as related to this in 15 or 17 joints. But there is no time - consuming plan for these counter measures. They're not financed or anything like that. But there seems to be a timedive plan here. It's supposed to take one year to clean this up. So you ask yourself, " Is it not possible to do so at a shorter time in view of what has been said? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u165	Mr. President. Thank you. A candidate for the answer, and especially the interesting comments he made and perhaps the lessons that can be drawn from the big issue before the Council that has its name on animal diseases but, of course, has to do with the import of raw meat. You're right. According to one U.S. senator, there is now a total of 17 measures taken. When the case first came to the fore, there was probably one 12 more in the case of the Generals. But what's wrong. The importance of this kind of operation is emphasized by a member of the body of elders. In fact, without my going to make the subject more appealing to the raw meat, it seems to be a serious deficiency of both, timing, and full assurance of financing. In fact, those who have discussed these matters are to form visitors in the field. Business committees have given much emphasis to these two factors. The bill discusses that the law on the National Park on the United Nations is further followed by the regulations of nationalities and the decision of nationalities, national lands, and penalties. Therefore, the use of land and land rights within the park does not require permission of local government but is sufficient for the permission of the Constitutional Committee. I'm going to let me describe the appearance of this law, but I'd really like to know what it looks like. A senator on this point. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u166	V.E.G. President. Yes, it can be said that no matter what case we discuss, if we have 15, 17, 20 promises or how many of them have any actions, if they are not timed and less financed, it's just a word on paper, it's nothing else in itself. Therefore, it is important to explain the matter. Regarding what we're discussing here, about employment policy and payment at the National Park on the Þingles, it would be interesting to know the position of the local government on this matter. That's a question. I hope at least that there is not been any going against their will. It's very important that we cooperate with our communities. The other is that, of course, the matter is not too complicated in itself. It's about employment policy and this is about fees to pay. But it will first be complicated when it comes to determining which employment should be allowed within the park and which is not. In what quantity it should be, i.e. how many people are allowed to be ready? What should the currency be? How much? Pay all equally and are guaranteed that the permit fees are solely for the costs of their management, etc.? It's supposed to take a year. Fine, you trust that if the law becomes legal, it will be very well done. Of course, I had complete confidence in the committee. But it is important that we be very clear on the surface. I'd prefer to see the general rules for the national parks in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u167	Mr. President. We're going to discuss a bill about a change in the law on the National Park on the Capitol. I'm a co-sponsor on this bill, and it says that the bill is all members of the Þingalval Committee. This bill - I take it further into its individuality - is due to a huge increase in the number of tourists in the United States area and a natural interest in tourists in tourism to run a variety of activities in connection with the arrival of tourists into the area. The closest thing is to mention the dive in Silfra. The rise in tourists in the United States has been tremendous. In the past, one can remember that it was possible to go to the Þingles, where he enjoys solitude in the shelter of beautiful picnics in the lava. You could find a tent area somewhere in the lava without being around a lot of people. But today this is so that during the winter and even during the winter, there are hundreds, or even thousands, of tourists each time enjoying the extraordinary beauty of the world. The importance of this selection is very high in the minds and hearts of most Icelanders, since the story can be found there. This has been the largest time in Icelandic history. This is the beginning of the legislature of the legislature that we are now in here at the General Assembly. Judgments were pronounced there and carried out. There's nature in its power, it's lava and moss, its bushes and its vegetation, its rocks and its caves, its water. You can see it there in its most pure form and the way it has shaped the land. There you can see land and vegetation, this good old Icelandic vegetation. Þingir is the nation's cradle. It's the pearl of Iceland and it touches all Icelanders how it's treated. This bill may not be a major change - but it does. It is intended to replace operations on the Þjóldur and put them under the Constitutional Committee, i.e. that no one can run a job without a contract on such activities with the Constitution Committee. In short, it is the subject of this bill. Normal is due to the local history and its importance to the republic and republic of all Icelanders'thinking that it is being kept tight and the place is protected as far as possible. That is exactly why we have a special committee, a Senate committee, overseeing this sacred location of all Icelanders. The origin of the place as a historical site for the Icelanders, of course, was the founder of the Generals, which took place on the Þingles in 930 C.E. Before that, there was an idea to set up a General Assembly for Iceland, and the model was made for Norway. In Iceland, the gods, where they sent an archdeceiver on the roads of the most important people. A man named Úlfljótur River was sent to Norway to study the matter and the laws of the Yellow Council in Norway. It came back after learning it, as the story says, outside and soon thereafter, in the summer of 930, the General Assembly for Iceland was organized into all the major princes. The people chose this place, Mr. President, Blue Forest, now called The Field. It contains the beginning of the state of Iceland. And why was this place chosen? Some say that it was because of the influence of the chieftains of Ingólfur Arnarson who had come and did not live far away, on the other side of the Gentiles, who had already formed their district council, the Council of Cjallnes, and found it practical to have the General Assembly near them, but also because all roads were passing through, from south, from East, over the northern, and from the western coasts and from the West to the south on the riverland. On the other hand, if one wants to set up such a council, it may well have been able to find the place there and find hardly a better place. The place had a long history with the Council because the Council was operating through the streets until 1800 C.E. when it was temporarily laid down. However, many others, not just the establishment of a General Assembly, mean events that occurred in the Þinga, but shortly thereafter, a human age later, the Christianity took place in 1,000 C.E. According to the legend, it had come down on Hellishi, just as it was due to be held by the Allied Council. It would have come down to the entrance of the Thressle Road, down from the wilderness to the Elfus, in the slope there, and turned to the town of one Christian ruler. When men rode to the assembly and saw the fire power and lava, pagans believed that this was an unfailing evidence of what the gods and gods had been going through with the Christian plans for the Christian Israelites. Earlier, King Ólafur Tryggvason had sent his ambassadors in foreign experiments to interfere with national affairs. He sent here Þangbrand priest. The result was not very great, but he did become a Christian, but he had to be disfellowshipped. I had come to believe that the pagans felt that the waters of the Hellish River were irreverent evidence that the gods were deeply angry with the purposes of the Christian. Then said Snorri the son of Þorgrímsson of Helgaheth in the plains, Of what was the gods angry, when the lava was upon us this day? That seemed reasonable. What major events could have been that the gods would have been angry when all the Þingvall test came into it at some point in the past? Though Þorgeir, the goði - fearing Þorkelsson son of Simondell, guided by a spokesman for the Gentiles, was designated by the Christian son of Hallur Þorsteinsson on a card, Síðu-Hall-Hall, as a matter of time. Hallur made a deal with the Þorgeir of Ljósvetningagoði that he canceled a law that would be acceptable to anyone. In other words, he would come to a conclusion in this matter. Well, Þorgeir was a advocate for the so - called Gentiles, i.e. Superstitious. And they all knew the tale of the night, when The Þorgeir men came into a camp, and lay down, and covered themselves with their fur, and rested there all that day and night, and spake not a word. And it came to pass in the morning, that Þorgeir sat up, and commanded the people to go to the law, and there he lifted up his voice, and said, Now is it known unto me, that we will not give counsel, neither will we give counsel to any more, neither will we plead among them; and we all have one law, and one manner. It shall be true, when we break the law, that we shall break it, and peace. The Þorgeir passed a law that would be accepted as Christianity, but it would continue to be allowed to curse secretly, evicted children, and eat horse flesh, which I now feel is a basic requirement for still being allowed to swim to this day. If we continue to move forward, the Houses will be deeply rooted in the history of Icelanders as I have slightly crossed over. But throughout the centuries men have met there, and this has been a place of harmony, as the history of Christianity really shows. The wisest men found a way out of the problem facing which the nation actually divided into two groups, the pagans, and the Christian. Therefore, the national park and holy land of lawbergs and surrounding areas are to be associated with caution and caution and careful return to the earth. This bill insists that jobs in the national park are forbidden without a contract with the Þingalval Committee. This contract will include the conditions that must be set up for the operation. Of course, it is at the top of a magazine if such agreements are to be obtained, such as. of the scuba diving, their main concern is safety. There are agreements with those with experience and knowledge who walk about with the respect and knowledge needed in this place. Such treaties would be conditioned in the sense of taking full account of national protection goals. There is also a bill in which the Parliamentary Committee can pay due to these agreements. The Committee's Committee of Directors and Control notes precisely that there is a lack of evidence regarding the payment rights of the bill, but that the fee is being paid at the cost of granting the license, oversight and monitoring of contracts and administration by the national authorities. Let the reward be moderate in view of this. Apart from these agreements, the bill also states that the Parliamentary Committee should shape employment policy for the national park, i.e. any career in the park would be a home. You can imagine people wanting to run in there all kinds of sales, hiking and tours and tours, various boat tours, so I mention something that comes to mind, as well as the diving that has been practiced over the years. In recent years, the dive has increased greatly. A Senate committee examined this now a few months ago, and a professional on the pressures of Silfra found that the scuba operation was not up to what may be called a limit of endurance but would not be long enough. So it is very important that the Parliamentary Committee take this course, i.e. each layer of work and to what extent and where and how it should be performed and what conditions should be set for such activities. The bill also contains a warrant for the Parliamentary Commission for setting up a labour policy Regulation which measures the requirements for management, handling and making negotiations under the directive. At the end of this article, we will see that this law goes further in terms of national laws and boundaries, national boundaries, and rights. What does it mean, this is going on again? The report on the bill shows that the evidence is that such a small part of the park is within the national population and that it is rather simple not to seek the permission of local governments as determined by national and national legal legislation to use land and land rights within the park but rather to be strictly under the administration of the Constitution Committee. There's been a slight debate on the operation in the area so that the presence of the local government is not part of the Parliamentary Committee. I can tell you how I feel about that. I believe, in the future, it is desirable that the Parliamentary Committee shall appoint members of the county government, i.e. In this case, the town of the Blue Forest, which belonged to the United Nations. They have members of the Committee. I consider this to be progress and desirable for cooperation and cooperation in the area. It is also a matter of how many tourists are usually directed at tourist locations, such as the Þingles. How much does this place stand for tourists? Where should they be directed? Today, tourists are traveling on key roads that are well - laid. The expansion of their ministry is on the move. However, it is possible to think that if the current level of tourism increases much from that of today, it is important to ask: How much money should be allowed by tourists in sensitive areas, such as the Moon field?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u168	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gauti Göta Hjaltason's talk, which covered many areas, as expected. The Senator is a natural member of the Þingalala Committee and a member of the Southern District. Maybe there's one thing I'd like to do. A senator after. He gave up his talk to Second Reg. the bill that says that due to the agreement on employment, it will be permitted to pay, as it is said, by the President's permission: ▪ Which should be met at the expense of hosting permit, oversight and supervision due to the permit activities. Maybe I wanted to go inside. A member of the council on the basis of what ideas are there on the scope of this payment. And perhaps also in a larger context: What attitude do members of the Parliamentary Committee have toward professional activities in this area? That's it. A senator is very well aware of the nation's affection for it as its holy place and its history site and natural nature like theirs. So it is very sensitive what is permitted here, which will be done only on the basis of agreements with the Parliamentary Committee. But in general about the attitudes that exist in these areas, and should remuneration be more encouraging or discouraging to such activity in this area?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u169	Mr. President. Thank you. Ísleifsson A great deal for the questions, Mr. Ólafur. What work would be permitted? It would have to be my always knowing to decide in close contact with the goal that is to protect this place, to protect the Field. But since he mentioned operations, I forgot in my own speech to point out that the first major project in Iceland was on the Þingals. If people didn't realize it, the first major project in Iceland was the beginning of the land miners that blocked the Axes River and gave it a different channel, allowing it to flow as it does today, down to the depths of the place where the Oxari River of Falls is today. So humans have now changed nature into the Matrix. Though it has been a long time, it will soon be forgotten. But what about discouraging or encouraging paybacks? Yeah, I think that's exactly what I'm thinking. A senator has a right to this matter. If the pressure is thought to be too much, as with the dive, I think it can be used to discourage it so that the current and the application will be controlled, just by raising the cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u170	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I take special note that he does not exclude the possibility that currency will be used to achieve the goals described in the bill, the protection objectives of the park that will be discussed. That's why I might want to get into the senator's mouth. but more closely according to the general attitude of a committee such as the Constitution Committee that there is a significant increase in job activity in the area compared to what is now. I will allow myself to use the short - term time I have to give the following talk. A senator named Christianity, generally said to have been in 1,000 C.E. But it is not out of the way, Mr. President, here is the Dr. Ólafía Einarsdóttir, a essay she defended at Uppsala University in the first half of the 1960s of the past century, in which she used the methods of chronology in medieval studies to substantiate her theory that Christianity was conducted in 999 rather than in the year 1000, as is commonly said.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u171	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Once again, Ólafur's Ísleifsson for good questions. How surprised I would have been if that were so! A senator would not have accepted my challenge, which included my review of the history of the Þingalva and called Christianity, the beginning of the General Assembly, and the entry of the Öxarár. I was not surprised that he mentioned just what he mentioned, that the Christian arrangement may have taken place a year earlier, i.e. In 999 but not in 1000 C.E. I don't make comments about it at all, not at all. But I mentioned in 1,000 because it's more than just for people, I think. Of course, the management of tensions and pressures within the Þingalva is one option. I think that on the Parliamentary Committee you want to be more careful than anything else. Therefore, a detailed analysis of the effect on Silfra was made during the current pressures that are very high. I don't remember numbers in that relationship, but there's quite a lot and it's growing. It was in order that we would not go too far in that regard, and we wanted to be as careful as possible and let the natural world and the Moon fields, the lake field, the vegetation, and history enjoy the doubt. We were very happy when we received the conclusion that the stress was not up to the limit. But it was almost, it's not far into it. Of course, it is time to consider these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u172	Mr. President. I want at the beginning of my speech this bill, which is about a change in the law of the National Park on the Field, No. 47/2004, with subsequent changes, is primarily about the contract with the service providers as it is called. The main subject of the bill says, by permission of the President: It is unauthorized to operate in the National Park without a contract on such activities at the Constitution Committee. In such agreements the requirements for the function to be considered necessary should be set, including due to the national protection goals And there they are especially drawn up in prospective lyrics. Then, Mr. President, the obligation of the Parliamentary Committee is to shape the employment policy due to the National Park and the Constitutional Committee, including the U.S. to shape the conditions for people to be allowed to work within the park, including taking into account the protection objectives of the park, which are referred to as a second time, and where agreements are made. Then there's a warrant that says, by permission of the president: The Management Board is authorized to implement a Regulation that further measures the conditions for operating, handling and making agreements on the regulations established by the minister. Then is an important law that says, with the permission of a president: This law goes beyond the law of national rights and the decision of national property, national boundaries, and delinquency. On the one hand, the bill deals with the agreements as described here and states that these costs are due to the costs of granting, oversight and monitoring for the permit activities. This will discuss some of the projects that will be carried out in connection with the permits employment activities planned in the bill. It is proper to be informed that this is a matter of granting, oversight, and supervision. Mr. President. A report refers to current laws about the National Park on the Þingles, No. 47/2004, went into effect on June 1 in that year, followed by specific changes made in the law. It's, for example. Interestingly, in Article 3. It is recommended that the national park's land area be protected by a period of peace, which states that the national park's land should be cohesive to that purpose, by permission of the president: ...to preserve the form of it as a place of worship for the nation and to maintain as much as possible the original natural process. These are, of course, very important goals that I expect most people to share. It is clear and well - known that visitors have increased greatly in the United States in recent years. No matter what time of the year it is, it has international tourists, of course, depending on the time of the year, but it is safe to say, as shown by the bill, that the park is one of the most widespread tourist attractions in the country. However, the increase in tourists results in a number of things. As one report shows, the park's visitors, tourists, have increased their leisure activities. It's normal there to be stopped. Since Congress is the sacred location of the Icelandic nation, recreation at this place must take into account that fact. It is noted in the report that in order to meet the national park's protection targets, it is considered to be transporters. Committee members of the Parliamentary Committee must make a recommendation that jobs can only be carried out within the National Park of the Þingalthala on the basis of a contract with the Constitution Committee. In other words, these matters are being handled, perhaps. that's what you say, harder than you ever have ever done. For a more detailed explanation, it is said that in this way national parks - likely a member of the Parliamentary Committee and after national parkal events - could contribute to the introduction of professional business within the park at any given time in compatible with his protective goals. I'd like to allow myself to use this opportunity, Mr. President, to emphasize the importance of this point, that it is always being kept to the limit that the activity there is at any given time compatible with the protection targets laid in the law and that I believe all agree to be necessary. Mr. President. In this article, we will consider the points I have made here as a subject: ▪ In view of national protection targets, it may be necessary to set the management conditions and possibly limit the number of people who are allowed to use the quality at a time in which the area does not carry an unlimited number of tourists and there is a lack of interest in protecting the area. Go on, with President's permission: ▪ The public views that apply to the distribution of limited quality come in until an examination, such as regarding public advertising, so that interested persons are aware of the need for distribution. Then there must be the opinions relevant to the decision-making process, including with regard to national protection goals, and care should be taken to make a financial decision. As stated earlier, it is assumed that the Parliamentary Committee will be authorized to implement a Regulation for further details on the procedure. There are other factors mentioned in the report that are important. It says to make a photo, with the permission of a president: ▪ Other factors that might come to mind include regulations on the duration of the contract, remuneration, companionship, and other duties of the service provider. All of these are vital factors. For the activity being done on the United States Hall, it may be appropriate to consider some factors. Hv. Some of the local council members have mentioned Silfra, where a number of activities are being carried out. Visitors dive into the river and are told by people who are familiar with it that there is great and unique experience and that there is great beauty to be seen. There have been tragic deaths, Mr. President, but it is positive that demand was expanded and against those who are allowed to submerge themselves in the river, which, of course, was absolutely necessary. Then I'd like to mention, Mr. President, that there's a lot of perspective over the park. It is hardly a matter of hearing a noise from a flight of air, especially from motor wings that were once called helicopters, and sometimes you wonder whether tourists who have traveled long distances from faraway parts of the world have actually made the journey to enjoy their place under such circumstances. I've had a lot of thoughts about maybe. You might consider the rules of flight practices like this, view flights, especially in order to preserve the stillness that should exist in this location to a greater extent than at times may be the possible development of this view of helicopters and airplanes. It is not unusual for a person to ask how a client would be treated on the part of a company who would like to meet the needs of a well - intentioned climbing visitor who saw the western wall of Almangle as a candidate for sports climbing. I allow myself to say that when such ideas exist, they must be careful. That idea is not far from the idea of setting aside a dive in Silfra, and for my part I would not recommend that such activity be accepted. I'll mention this as an example of what trouble humans could find if they don't have full control of their jobs in this place. Mr. President. I can't help it, since I'm at the top of the National Park on the Moon, to mention nature and life. We live to such an extent that it has been discussed in literature by great and good scholars. Let me mention the book of Pétur M. Jónasson, the son of Jonah, a lake. Moreover, I will name the book of the same authors as that of Páll the son of Hersteinsson, waters of Tingal. A wonder world in shape. This is once so that the life in Lake Þingvalala is a major subject for research, for life in and by water, of course. The water in which water is deepest is only 114 m as far as I can reach it, but the surface of the water is close to 100 m above sea level, so that where the water is deepest, it is lower than sea level. You can imagine all the diversity in this water, in its lifeline. It may be that research is only recent, and much will come to the fore. It is well known that there are four species of pink, unique natural phenomena. I would also like to mention the bird's life. The sky comes every year west of the sea. He is the characteristic bird of Lake Þingvalala, and the king of the water, and beautiful are the sound of himbriman. He has dignity and beauty and is fully aware of what his position is when he is on or by the water. No other mention can be made of the mountain ring, or at least ... takedown. The Eastern waters are the Tongast, the Hrafnabjörg, and the Café. The important thing is that the Continentals, the tallest, can be seen all the way from here on out of Reykjavík. They're seen outside for filming in Scarrisey. They are well seen from the Seltjananes' disk, as an example. Mr. President. In today's travel studies, especially when such areas as the National Park are part of the United States Hall need to be kept in mind. It is absolutely necessary that the Parliament's endurance levels be maintained at any given time. I am stressing that much, as well as stressing the concept that has become very important in this study, which is about sustainable and sustainable tourism. For example, when a delicate area with delicate vegetation that can naturally predestinate in a way that takes decades to recover the vegetation, it is of course essential that all should be observed and stressed. Mr. President. I have a few seconds left of my talk period, and I want to use them to correct the wrongs that occurred in my previous speech on a different subject, where I was discussing the theoretical contribution of the District Court of Arnar Þór Jónsson. I had to say at least Once as a district attorney, he is, of course, a local judge. I believe I also made it a point to mention him at least. Even Arnar Þór Jónsson, of course. And now that I've mentioned this in the General's symposium, I'm willing to expect that I may expect the right and true things to be true in this subject will be held in the public news. But I must say that I thank him for his valuable contribution to the public talk in the last few weeks; it has been taken, and that is important.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u173	V.E.G. President. I thank a senator for a very pleasant speech. I'd be so happy to have heard one former senator talk about the Capitol and its surrounding areas with a profound inner feeling. I have to say, nature's description is what. A senator was not behind him. It's usually at times like this that you miss Acnisar Skarphéðinsson's son, not having him here to describe the Houses, the Murmur and the Himbrimmans, and what's going on in there. I miss Össur a lot of times, but he could draw up enormously beautiful images of the Þingahus for you. Hv. Senator. I think of the rules they're supposed to set. On one hand, a job policy should be shaped to define the type of activity that will take place within the park or be able to take place and decide how to act and is well defined as what to last. But I wondered, " Is there no simpler or better to have general rules about national parks in Iceland instead of having one rule for Lakejool and others for the Þinglei, even though ape is to follow others, than the general rules of rules for the work that are supposed to be there? ' Second, when this new system is introduced to other people who want to come in there and have a job, I saw in the account that those who are already working in the park have some kind of a head start or prelude. Is the senator's opinion of whether it is reasonable to consider it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u174	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. Truly, it is worth the fact that the name of the Össur of Skarphéðinsson is named by the Tingvall and the life of the Þingvall. He's as he says, as he himself says, with a PhD in the parallel life of salmon fish, perhaps not least. So is his great and excellent book on the Book of Þingalgar available in many American and amateur cultures on the grand subject. There is one vision of nature, and in October it is seen under the pressure of groups and how they are affected by the struggles of the spawning and the struggles that exist in their world. But with regard to that subject as a cause of depression. A senator of particular matters, i.e. whether or not to be considered ahead or to be premeditated, it can be said that this can be considered, but there no viewpoint can outweigh the protection objectives of the United Nations laws and is still legalized by this bill, which is clearly intended to contribute to the implementation of that protection goal. I support those goals. That is why I welcome the bill, and I think it is well designed and an important milestone in that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u175	V.E.G. President. Thanks for the answer. I don't think there's any doubt about it, and I suppose all Congress members agree on the protection objectives of a law on the United States Park and the goals we would like to add to the protection of the area, which is extremely important, and I think we must all agree that it's important to keep it. There's something else I'd like to roll up. I saw that the Blue Forest Company was sent a request for review, but the local community did not seem to have turned in the information. I've wondered about whether this bill would be done with some kind of consciousness or at peace with the local community because it's stated in the bill on the license party that they say is stated in national law, etc. not expected to be consulted by the local community. I think it's very important that we maintain this administrative level. This is a very important administrative level and, in fact, more important than the State Department, where residents are being treated more closely than we may see here we are in the national sector. But I asked earlier about the general rule. The reason why I asked if it would be better to have a general law is that there is a bill on the environment and transport committee, I think, about the institution of a National Park that I think, and it's my personal opinion, that there's not been an issue in the Central Order, specifically, completely crazy idea in itself, to be adding another state agency to care for national parks. Wouldn't it be better to set a standard rule and possibly if someone somehow wants to pull it together in one place, would it not be better if it were done in some Ministry?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u176	Mr. President. I can agree with that with what. Senator, at least When the bill is submitted, it will be considered to be precisely analyzed, including depending on the points of view. A senator described his brief speech as if there is a need for a new institution, whether it is the right way, or if the goal of such a bill is expected to be reached in a more practical way. There's something that's wrong. A candidate makes a comment, that is, a paragraph designed in the new article to bear number 5, where the last paragraph states to legalize a law that is here intended to legalize the laws of the peoples and of the country's boundaries, national boundaries, and rights. It is clear that because of the use of land and land rights within the national park, there is no need for the permission of the Constitutional Committee. This allows me to understand, Mr. President, that with this, it is intended to strengthen the administration of the region in the respect of the bill. I'm gonna let me say I think it's good. But I have no doubt that the Parliamentary Committee will strive to have a good partnership with the Blue Forest. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u177	Mr. President. A few years ago, on television, I saw an interview by a foreign tourist, a young woman standing on the Hik, looking over the ground and water amazed at its beauty, who told a reporter that she had wanted to enjoy this moment alone. Of course, I understand the point of that viewpoint very well, but this young woman had bought a trip to Iceland with a cruise ship, one of the largest of the world's population, 3,000 to4,000 passengers, at rush hour and had apparently failed to realize that she would not be allowed to enjoy Congress alone. As shown in the bill we're discussing here and in the Commission opinion, in the past few years people in the National Park have grown in line with the rise in the number of tourists to Iceland, the park is one of the most sought tourist attractions in the country. By permission of the President: It is noted that while this increase in guests has increased, the park's guests enjoy recreation in the park. In order to meet the national reservations of protection, it is necessary for the movemen to recommend that jobs be strictly restricted within the National Park, on the basis of a contract with the Þingalval Committee. In this way national parks can contribute to the presence of the park's environmental employment goals at any given time. This is entirely finished, Mr. President, as it can be said that the staff of the Þingvaval National Park in the past few years worked a unique feat in protecting the national park from the increase in tourist waste. Of course, this is where there was a bomb of tourism, so you might say that these good people were on hand trying to rebuild and build up, for example. Marching to protect the area from irreparable damage. To us Icelanders is a holy place. I think we all feel that we each have a share in this pearl. Therefore, we do not care how it is done and how it operates there and in what way and in each way. It is quite clear, especially with regard to the approval of the cultural elements of this place on the 2004 United Nations Institute for Culture, that we are not simply committed to defending this paradise for us, i.e. To make sure that we keep this pearl, we have promised the whole world that we will protect this place. There are countless people who go to Þingvall. It doesn't forget anyone who's been standing on the Hacuna, looking at the fields and the waters, and looking at the mountain ring that's unique. It doesn't matter which season it is, it's always so beautiful that you get hit in the stomach when you see it. Of course, we have the obligation to see to ourselves and to future generations that this entity and individual place are preserved, as we would like it to be at any given time. Various activities have been made and the resources the park has had, including The cost of cars and other things has slipped into building footpaths and other things to protect nature from the tourist, i.e. That she won't be damaged. Here on the bill, the report quotes the experience of a lakeland park, which has certainly been in a similar situation, having to build up in several places in a very short period of time in a race of time. You can, for example. Note that after the State decided to buy the earth of Fell, where the glacier is, two years or a half years ago, people are faced with the fact that only sand is there. Everything needs to be rebuilt. In itself, structure has been successful in such a successful manner. While we look forward to the experience there has been, we have been unable to find the best way to collect the human fees, e.g. Like the parking lot. Of course, there is also the need to learn from that experience. Therefore, I'm assuming this bill is here, which is a good deal to pay. In the past, I can mention that the person standing here is an associate member of a committee party with an adjustment proposal that follows the bill into the council. This does not change the fact that we have to make the necessary arrangements for employment that are allowed to meet certain requirements. I say allowed because we should not allow anyone to engage in any occupation of the national park outside the United Nations Institute for Culture. We're not supposed to be shy about making strong and rigid demands on those who run businesses in the park or professional work. Besides, as a matter of fact, it was said. paritaprevir Ólafur the son of Ísleifsson the son of Izzzaf, too, is not without danger. Sadly, in recent years we have lost several guests, and others have stopped. Hence, there is good reason to be highly demanding, for both the national park and especially for the sake of the visitors. We want everyone here in Iceland to be safe on their journeys. If we are to live up to the name of a nation that accepts tourists, we need to set high standards. Even if it's a small setback for a while, let's not forget that we're still getting a little bit of a setback. two million tourists to Iceland this year expected. In recent years, experience shows that we are, in fact, fully impressed by receiving a number of people, i.e. to receive a number of people in such a way that they are reasonably safe and able to enjoy their stay during the journey. There are a lot of things you can do to organize activities in and around the park so that the experience of visitors will be positive, confident, and that this unique nature can withstand the effort. It has been discussed at times, and I think that some aspects of it have been carried out, especially when a large cruise ship arrives in Iceland or in Reykjavík, that not all buses are sent the same way at the same time so that there may be several thousand people gathered at the Haknu at the same time. This is what I think was tried, and of course we're supposed to have at the time that's most likely to spread traffic during the day. There are many ways to do this, e.g. by having a lower parking rate in the morning and in the evening than in the afternoon. There are ways to make sure that the park is not trampled down and that everyone is enjoying it. Then there is another issue: There are many things to be taken care of, and that is why I hope that this matter may be the first of many people in order to preserve and build up this park that is unattainable. As far as I can remember in a council hearing adopted at the General Assembly in December 2016, the Parliamentary Committee was obliging a new organization for the Þingalva region, including the United Nations. the 100th anniversary of the U.S. government that was celebrated on such a memorable occasion last year. Hv. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Isleustafsson, mentioned earlier in his talk on a funeral trip, was now that the Allied Council itself held a solemn meeting at the Þinglei on July 18, last year, the talks sometimes drowned from airplanes. It's natural undesirable, and then I'm not necessarily talking about the General Assembly meeting but about the fact that guests of this park are not disturbed by low-fly planes and helicopters. So there is much to be said about this matter. The second thing is, because I mention that this synopsis proposal has been adopted at the 2016 Parliament, there is a need to make a lot more meaningful that informs the story, informs what is in this area. Then the mind must think of the pride of the nation, where Jónas the son of Hallgrímsson and Einar the son of Benediktsson. I must say, Mr. President, there is a misapprehension for all of us how this honor plot is being carried on. There's two flat albums on the ground, bets, only the names of the poets, if I remember correctly, possibly the birthday of birth and death. No information, no nothing created. This honor plot has been shown disrespect for visitors over the past few years, it has happened, probably by people who do not know better. This is one step in it, and I hope that this case is the first thing in line because we have to show respect for it all, and these two dead gentlemen, we have to show respect for it as well. Because as one of them said, and I hope that I have this just after, Mr. President, by the permission of the President, by memory, the floor of the law at the sacred floor of bares every year, children and snorkeling at the game. This is about 1830, 1830,1840. Then it is natural for those years, and it is still so, Mr. President, to turn the law back every year. We need to make sure that this will be the future. Therefore, we must safeguard this area to the best of our ability. One factor in this is what was mentioned earlier, that is to protect the ice age that is very special. Ex-knife. A senator and a chief. Minister Össur Skarphéðinsson made it a special case year after year at the General Assembly that the trunk would be protected in a way that would be unique. I can't remember whether it was in the 12th experiment or in what experiment it finally did, and I agreed to a conclusion at the World Council on this very thing in 2013 in 2013-2016. Has Ashjörður the Össur of Skaprhéðinsson been greatly respected by having seen to it that his proposal would be accepted. I second that we need to be careful when it comes to professional work in the middle of a pearl like this. We've got to make a lot of demands, we've got to make some requisitions and we've got to make good contracts with the operator. Of course, they need to recognize both the responsibility for their customers, their safety, and the place around which these customers are concerned. We cannot repeat it enough that we must learn from those who may be doing the best in these matters. Then the mind of the one here appears two directions, one toward the Grand Canyon in America, and to a region in the South Germany called Berchtesgaden, where Adolf Hitler's Eagle's Hawk is located at 1,334 feet above sea level. Both areas have very rigid rules, both places, collect fees, in both locations, ensure that those who have access to the parks and areas do not go all over but follow specific park courses, use proben, well and carefully. It's good information, good management, careful guidance. What a fine example! Sometimes I don't think that me and the Icelanders do enough learning from others when we're trying to invent the wheel as we've done now, both in a Lake earth and now have been successful even though it's difficult because of its vastness and in so many places, etc., and then in a Celebrity National Park. In itself, I am a little surprised that we have not sought out any foreign counselors in these matters. I heard something like that. A few German workers who have worked with African authorities in most likely eight or nine countries of Africa in building national parks and helping up to that great continent. Such a man I think would be a whale dragon for us Icelanders to let him see or find out what we've done ourselves, let him point us out. We're not supposed to be afraid to take orders. We are sometimes little for it, Icelanders, and we want to do things our own way, sometimes with disastrous results. But I think that's exactly what we're supposed to learn from what's best and what's best. Because while the Þingals are these amazingly beautiful, lovely bulbs, there are areas elsewhere in the world no less insignificant, equally beautiful, where men have already realized what it takes to come and do in order to ensure preservation. That's why I am happy to sign the change that will be said, by President's permission: The Management Board is permitted to set up regulations established by the minister, in which the conditions for management, handling and agreements are further recommended. This is the bottom line because at that time the Parliamentary Committee is given an uncluttered commission to make all the contracts needed, the best equipped, the staff in the park and the Parliamentary Committee, to make sure that professional activity allowed to happen in the National Park is in such a way that we are absolutely certain that those who come and enjoy it are safe and receive them in such a way that sobriety is needed and that we make sure that this sacred location of Iceland will be preserved as it is now for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u178	Mr. President. I had prepared a significant talk on this subject and related matters, but then I have been asked to shorten my case as much as possible to assist in the matter of Congress. I would have liked to have a chance to give the talk I had prepared, and in fact, I wasn't sure that I would put everything in place in one speech, but since I'm generally all willing to step in for Congress, I will try to shorten my case as much as possible. Yet, I especially wanted to know that while the bill is good and I have nothing to do with putting such things as this, I feel that now it is important to mention that, of course, what will be done about the authority given to the Parliamentary Committee under the bill. In this context, I wanted to say specifically that men do not forget the importance of the man - made environment, even in a place like the Þingir. I am saying, but perhaps I should say most not at all in a place like the Thiing floors. As all Icelanders know, or expected at least Most of them are exceptionally remarkable places from nature, whether viewed as geology, animal life, or other natural factors in which North America and Europe meets, or are removed by what they look like. But the place is as remarkable as it is for the history that has taken place in most places since land mines and is, in fact, the central point of many of Iceland's history. As a result, it is only natural that on the United States Hall be less concerned with the existence of men on the United States Hall. There are not many monuments now, and in fact, I've had a little bit of concern that people almost want to know the history of the men on the Capitol. For example, after burning up the Hotel Valhalla, this discussion came up on the surface. Of course, we would like the monuments that might be built at such a place as what might be called the national community's partnership, to be monuments that support the overall picture of the Þingalva and the Icelanders taking the view that we are all share together. But exactly the Hotel Valhalla could do a pretty good job, the hotel would be rebuilt. Now, Mr. President, I'm just going to say that the hotel was first built in 1898 so that a hotel had stood at the Field for over 100 years when it burned and quite grounds for serious consideration to rebuild this hotel and then at the same place as the hotel that burned, although it did not stand there at first. It had previously been the site of a castle, but it did not feel comfortable having a hotel in such a way that it was delivered for the 1000th anniversary of the Council, moved in 1928, and 1929, so that it could be used during the celebration for the 1000th anniversary of the Council. At the same time, it was built, actually, only three brushes back then, and then it was added to the Þingvallville farm for the 1974 bours' anniversary. They can only imagine if it was obvious that the Þingvall town, I don't speak the church too, would not be where these constructions stand. Most of the pictures known from the Senators are taken from the Hak, from the bosom of Almangur, across the very area of the United States of Germany. I believe that most people can agree with me that having these buildings, houses, the place, does not interfere in any way with the view, but will further add meaning to the area. This I wanted to make a point, that we do not forget the importance of showing the presence and history of the local people, despite the fact that we were careful to protect the natural world. It can work out together. So, of course, it is possible to engage outside the U.S. weekend to try to spread more tourists around the area, although I assume that all who have made their way to the Þingvall will want to enter their own council weekend. So I'll just mention one example in this whole too short of my speech to build a camp like those standing on the United States fields for centuries, somewhere outside, and make a special tourist resort out of them, where there could be some sort of Viking village and men selling some goods and thus spreading the strain from what is now. We see to it what effect only on one part of the Tingvala, while those who have been at the center of the tourist attraction have been used in recordings on the series Game of Throns. This, on its own, has caused greater interest in more places than was previously attended by tourists. We can do the same by building and serving where people are attending. I'm gonna just do this so that I can live up to the promise I made not to talk for long, but there are many other things I'd like to have come to here. I might mention some of it to the 3rd. but to say this good at this time in the sermons.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u179	A respectable president. I recommend the Committee's Committee of Foreign Affairs for a bill on the freezing of funds and registration of parties on the list of forced actions in connection with the mobilization of terrorism and the spreading of mass destruction weapons. The committee discussed this case, attended Gautur Sturluson from the Ministry of State, Áslaug Jósepsdóttir from the Ministry of Justice, the Helga Rut Eysteinsdóttir of the SEC, Jón Gunnar Ásbjörnsson of Iceland's Law Association, and Attorney Hörður Helgi Helga Helgason. We also received reviews from both the Department of Justice and the Federal Protection, which we specifically requested when certain questions arose at the Committee and also a memo from the State Department to respond to review, especially from the Bureau of Justice. The bill is aimed at preventing the funding of terrorism and the spread and funding of mass destruction weapons according to the national commitments adopted by Iceland. The bill examines the freezing of funds in accordance with certain national security measures set out by the United Nations Security Council, international or national groups to maintain peace and security, and to ensure respect for human rights and freedom, in accordance with the laws on the implementation of international pressure measures. The subject of the bill is the assessment that we should know well, the assessment made by the international financial action group, which in English uses the French Action Board, FAFF - a little difficult acronym, a respectable president - in Iceland's defenses against money theft and terrorist funding. We received a report in April 2018, and it can be said that the result was not in our favor and that it was necessary to react quickly. As a result, the Minister of Justice appointed a beginner in line with Article 39. track No. 148/2018, on action against the money load and the funding of terrorism. The control team has even. The role of promoting a coordinated government action in the litigation category and securing follow-up and improvements due to FAFF comment. In the operating group, representatives represent all major governments involved in the seminary. Already FAFF comments have been responded in a variety of ways, including with the sentence of a new universal law we know well here, a respectable president, i.e. The law on action against the money-flooring and funding of terrorism that we have already approved. The bill here is an important factor in ensuring complete improvement from the factors listed by FAFF. If the government does not respond enough to FAFF comments, Iceland may be listed as a list of potentially risky countries, which can seriously affect the financial system, including the U.S. In the form of lower credit ratings, higher interest and adverse creditors, so action is required. The committee therefore feels that it is important that we respond appropriately and rejoice that the bill was composed in the cooperation of all major candidates in this field. The Commission recognizes the importance of ensuring effective implementation within the Community so that it can be handled in a consistent and appropriate way by the mobilization of terrorism and the spread of mass destruction weapons. In view of the figures on the management of personal information and the legal qualifications, the Committee requested reviews from Perone Protection and the National Law Association of Iceland. According to the Federal Protection Commission, the rules of the bill would involve the processing of personal information, but a moderate measure was taken in this respect in the bill, and therefore Perone Protection did not make a comment to the bill, but it was stated in the review of the legal committee of the lawyers that it was a reason to add the bill to the definition of the definition of the compression action ◯ which would increase the purity of the bill. The committee came to that conclusion and therefore proposed a adjustment on a document attached to this committee. The Legal Committee also felt that there was a better way to refer directly to law No. 93/2008, for the implementation of international compression procedures, at 1 mg. Section 4. The bill that the committee agrees with. Then the review pointed out that in view of the burden of 1 mg. Section 8. it would be accepted by the law that the terms of the registration of the list of forced action should be clearly stated in the directive itself. The Ministry's memo stated that the registration conditions were addressed in 9/11411. par. The bill. The committee agrees that it is desirable to refer directly to the regulations set out in Article 8. and thus suggests a change of content. The Ministry of State also suggested a memo in which its headline of Article 8. in view of the requirement for the investigation due to the appointment of a list of forcedness procedures necessary prior to enrolment on such lists. The committee believes that such a change will further enhance the understanding of the law. So, in its review, the Legal Committee directed to the Commission to check whether the Constitution's legislation is restricted to the directive that the decrees of the decrees of burdensome forced action should be implemented by the Regulation. The Ministry's memo noted that this point had not been taken for a special consideration in the processing of the bill. On the other hand, the 2008 law on the implementation of the United Nations Security Council required that the regulations of the Council of Safety be carried out under advertisement. It was observed that the current arrangement was based on the development of short-term and uniform measures between countries. There is a bill in the paper that became law No. 93/2008 specifically stated that the work of international institutions, countries, and organizations has taken place in strengthening the application of forced action. From this work, it has been recommended that the government uses administrative instructions for the implementation of forced tremulous activities requiring overtime the implementation of new laws for each of the international guidelines for forced action. This approach is in line with the implementation of other norse countries, but it introduces all conclusions for such forced operations. In view of this, the committee does not feel the need for further consideration. The committee responded to the Ministry's proposal to change 2 mg. 7. The bill, that, instead of only the notifications required by certain teams, the actions against the financial resources and funding of terrorism, will be obliged to introduce processes and methods to evaluate whether or not their clients are on the list of forced measures, they will be required to all reported members who are not obliged to have a system under 1.mg. 7. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes proposed in a special Senate document. A Smári Mccarthy's signing this opinion in advance, which he intends to explain later. Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson was absent from the case, but under the heading, he wrote a letter to all members of the committee. State Department.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u180	President. It is often good to get up in the program, see where it leads us. I recommend this committee party in the absence of a leading authority who worked most on the case on the job committee, i.e. Yeah. Ásmundur Friðriksson. The bill puts in place a change in agricultural management by moving the implementation of agricultural contracts and production management into the sector's and innovations department. The main objective of the bill is to promote agriculture and food policy with increasing the number of employees involved in the work and innovation. The committee received a number of visitors on this matter at several meetings and reviewed a number of comments on the subject. Among the points were that by moving a hardware company, a powerful computer system, based on valuable US agriculture databases, was moved to the Ministry. There was a concern that there was a need to integrate computer systems and databases, as well as a good cooperation between employees in the Agency for the management and welfare of livestock and thus the implementation of domestic agreements. The Commission stresses that there will be an agreement on information technology between the Ministry and the Food Agency as soon as possible to ensure that the implementation of agricultural contracts will be done without any qualification. Then the Court considers the importance of further building an electronic agriculture administration. The committee noted that information technology has been developed within the Food Agency, which would be uncertain by these changes. The committee also stated that a flow between databases could be guaranteed by making agreements. The Committee considers it important that the development of information technology that has been carried out within the Food Agency will continue despite the continuation of the financial resources it needs in order to continue its activities in the Ministry and direct it to the Ministry to support the Agency. President. In the worst case, there were concerns that computer systems and base systems have taken place within the Food Institute. The construction of these factors within the Food Organization has been a major factor in the development of the construction of the equipment facility. The Commission is directed to the Ministry to ensure that this development will continue despite the transfer of an equipment firm. For the Committee it was expressed concern that a decision to a higher authority would not be possible and it would be unclear what order would be established if there were a disagreement about the government's decisions. The committee also pointed out that such charges are generally few. The committee points out that when there is one administrative level, decision - and - case support may be required. The Ministry can with its internal rules form such a review. The committee noted that the Ministry had already begun planning how to ensure that justice would be maintained in this way. The Commission stresses that the Ministry ensures that internal legal processes will be implemented when the work of the Department is being carried out. The Commission suggests that the bill will be accepted with the change indicated in the committee's opinion. Under countless printed page. Senators Rafney Magnúsdóttir Magnúsdóttur, Chairman of Ásmundur Friðriksson, Njáll Trausti Kristjánnsdóttir, Kolbeinn Proppé, Njálíttir Friðbertsson, Ísleifsson Isafjölsson, and Sigurður Jónsson, in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u181	President. Despite the signature of this bill, i.e. The change in the law about restaurants, restaurants, and entertainment, turned to the aspect of the pretext that turns into a place to stay and took me ever to realize that it was not about entertainment, except if we thought of sleep as fun. It has to do with what, by permission of the President, I get to do this, has been called the Airbnb, i.e. Homemaking. The bill suggests two changes to the county's work field. On the one hand, it is suggested that the businessman be able to lay a ticket ticket on anyone who runs a permit for a bed without a specific permit, as mentioned in Article 7. The law. However, it is suggested that the businessman be allowed to employ the administrative fines of an unregistered party with a documented homework to submit a validation statement. The primary objective of the bill is to improve the surveillance of short-term rents and baits, as well as improve the coordination of court treatments and the decision of guiltys between permit stay-ins and registration-to-home registration. I say again that I'm measuring the case in the absence of a leading historian who worked most on it within the committee, hm. paritaprevir Ásmundur Frider's Friðriksson. For the Committee, it was a pleasure to be a more progressive observer and to shape a clear frame of homemaking. Similarly, there was a view that it would be necessary for a judicial property to be made condition for home registration to promote domestic abuse. The committee also gave a view that by this requirement the right of tenants is to obtain additional income. The committee agrees that it is necessary to avoid misuse of domesticity. The Commission suggests that the bill will provide changes that will strengthen the framework for homeintegration significantly and harmonisation. So a major step will be taken by the proposed adjustment of the law. The committee points out that according to the court of law, renters are forbidden. However, the committee feels that it is proper to gain experience on how the above changes will be experienced before the requirement for a judicial hearing will be passed on. The committee points out that it is important to examine the matter into the background before further steps become the stage and press on to the tenants'rights. So the committee does not contribute to this change at this time. Here, the opposing viewpoint, president, is that in some cases renting out an apartment where registered tenants may not be the ones who actually live in their apartments, and so tenants can by permission of landlords gain extra power, like those who own an apartment, by renting their apartment to their short-term rent. The committee expressed concern for the competitive environment of hotels and lodging rooms. It was noted that their situation was widespread and that in many parts of the country, the majority of the losses were due to the harsh competition of unscrupulous homes and lodging rooms that do not have permission. The committee agrees with the above views, and the bill is being developed to strengthen the box on such activities and to coordinate monitoring and to punish the activities involved. The committee believes that it is important to prevent bedkeeping from occurring without permission. In this regard the Committee considers it important to ensure that the innovation of tourism will be subject to a permit or registrational operation in order to maintain equal control in the environment of hosting services in the country. For the Committee, it was pointed out the importance of the removal of the management board from the province. It was noted that it would not be possible to carry out a national study obligation adequately if one office was assigned to make decisions on government fines throughout the country. The committee agrees with the importance of adequate study activities throughout the country. The Commission points out that the change means that violation of the license of a postmortem activities will be in the hands of a single county agency according to the violation of the registrational procedure. A formal monitoring of the activities of the Marketing Authorisation will remain in the hands of local police services, as has been the case. Therefore, the Commission does not consider the changes to include transport of projects from the region. The Commission stresses the need to monitor the activities of the head of the Marketing Authorisation and may therefore oversee the importance of promoting the cooperation of the Commission in the capital area with individual rural areas. The Committee gave a view to changing 90 - day tenets because today's number of days resulted in a great lack of rent houses where a large part of real estate was used on short - term rent. At that time, the Committee pointed out that sophistication is of great importance to rural society, e.g. In connection with the pressures of real estate bills. Therefore, a businessman would have to have clear legal authority to communicate such information to the local community. The committee's concern is that there is a lack of rent houses and that lack will lead to higher rent prices. However, the committee reiterates that it is necessary to further investigate the matter before further adjustments are made, considering the rights of all persons before the legislation is tightened rather than proposed by the bill. So the committee stresses the careful monitoring of the progress of the planned changes, followed by the necessary changes in the law. Here we suggest that there be special attention to the effects of these changes and then see if the 90 - day rule is complete, especially if the thought is as I mentioned earlier that people can gain a little extra capacity by renting out their own apartments. The committee believes that there will be a need to investigate ways to explain the rules of homemaking further. The Commission aims to check at the next legislature to see if a state-of-the-art holding is a prerequisite to obtain permission for homemaking, but it will ensure that tenants can use the release of landlords. You will also be tested to see if there is a need to limit hired rent time now 90 days. Here's what I said in my own words earlier, good if my suggestion wasn't better than what the Committee considers. The committee suggests that the situation will be agreed with the changes presented in the committee's opinion. Under this opinion, agents are writing to each other. Work committee, huh? Senators Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Director of Ásmundur Albertína Friðbjörg Fjörðurfjörður Elíasdóttir, Halla Trausti Kristjánnsdótir, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé and Njáll Friið Friðbertsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u182	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a committee party with a bill-change proposal to correct the changes in investment insurance laws and an investment insurance system, no. 98/1999. The nominee is on the roof. 1501. The Icelandic deposit stakeholders' fees for depositors and investors, TIF, consist of a common pay, which is a fixed proportion of all deep-institution institutions, and a tax per risk factor on the other hand. The bill suggests that the share ratio of the total annual pay will drop from 0.225% to 0.16%, corresponding to a 26% reduction in expenses. In addition to other EU countries, the FIF budget is high here, but in the review of the financial organisation, it is noted that the pay will be about 3◯4% of the cost of depositors. The cost is even greater for savings, which largely finances their operations on credits. The share of contributions to TIF has been 7◯8% of the budget of savings. As in a report with the bill, there is a law on investing insurance and insurance systems, No. 98/1199, of the EB Directive, which has been amended with Directive 2009/14/EC and 2014/49/ESB. These are so-called DGS rules. The recording of two of the latter decrees is being accomplished, i.e. DGS II and DGS III, on the EEA deal. In addition, the rules on internal insurance should be considered in relation to the 2014/59/ESB Directive, which was partly implemented by law No. 54/2018 and the full implementation of the next legislature is being implemented. Regarding the changes in the water along with the introduction of the late BRRD and the uptake of DGS II and DGS III are referred to in articles 2 and 3 with the bill. By the end of 2018, TPF total property was 38.6 billion. which is 2.7% of the deep things that are secured according to local law. The ratio is 4.5% compared to DGS III, which included accounts for about 100,000 euro peaks of internal insurance protection. The proportion is high in international comparison and is relative to the acquired funds substantially greater than 0.8% of the minimum directive target. In view of the proportion of the pay per cent for financial companies which are mainly funded by loans and the status of the TIF, there is no scope for further decrease in pay costs that a greater proportion of the Committee should be adopted as a step-in on the general budget. Sets a further 10 billion dollars from the heart. in general, a tax rate of less than 0.02% per year, but from the core beyond that amount, the ratio of 0.16% as suggested in the bill. This suggests a corresponding change in the proportion of the quarterly pay days. With this change, much of it wants to strengthen the competitiveness of savings, while other financial institutions benefit from the decline. The majority believe that by this method the budgets grew to reduce interest and to offer their clients a more favorable cut. In addition, the more part contributes to a change in validation regulations that cannot be taken, and this is shown in the opinion of the committee, which follows a change of suggestions as stated earlier, and I refer to them. I draw attention to the fact that with this, more part of the Economic and Business Committee is actually promoting an increased competition between financial companies and we believe that this is of the good and essential. I insist, Mr. President, the case will be referred back to the Economic and Business Committee between 2 and 3. As a result of this step change, it is reasonable that the committee will listen to their viewpoint. The Committee has also received a review from the Contestant Commission that strongly recommends the proposals proposed by the Committee. Mr. President. A Smári Mccarthy writes under the heading "Preciously " that he intends to explain in his speech. Under the committee of the Watch Tower Society, Óli Björn Kárason, president and executive, Þorsteinn the son of Víglundsson, Brabbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, and Smári Mccarthy, with a warning.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-11-120.u183	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a holding of real owners from the Economic and Business Committee on a bill. I want to know at the outset that this bill is based on the same report that I went to the Committee on State Affairs, i.e. A so-called FAFF report, but I forgot to mention that there I was making a recommendation for a committee party in the absence of time. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdóttir, so to speak. But to the review of the Economic and Business Committee. As I said, this is one of the issues in which the FAFF assessment has been made in Iceland in defense of the money loads and terrorist funding. The committee arranged for people to meet, which is mentioned in the committee opinion, so I don't feel that I need to read it. The bill suggests that a new total law will take effect on the registration of real owners, as defined by the definition of real owners in Article 3. Refuses to Refuse to Money and Fundament of Terrorism, No. 140/2018, and that's the big law I covered earlier. The bill is a part of the government's response to the international FAFF report, or the Fancial Action Board, as it is called in Anglo - Saxon, the assessment of Iceland's defenses against money fraud and terrorism. It was published in April 2017 and revealed some weaknesses in Icelandic legislation. So I'm just going over it, the committee proposes some adjustment proposals. Two. The bill is the value range of the law defined by the list of parties under which they hear a general law on other persons who have been given a social security number, except for government and national legislation. According to 2 mg. The article will determine whether or not the people will be subject to the law. For example, 2 g. Under the values listed by force, partnerships, partnerships, partnerships, communities, buildings, and so on. It was a list of 21 different companies. This law has been criticized, particularly 14th among its counts, that unions registered in a corporate registry are under the law. According to the Allied Union of Iceland, paying members of the community at any given time are real owners of trade unions and the use of union records or information on human trade unions is forbidden unless there is a purpose. The Ministry's memo for the Committee due to the comment shows that it would never be necessary for individual members to be enrolled as actual owners in the sense of the law by definition of the real owner of the 13th sector. legalize action against the financial resources and finance of terrorism. Furthermore, the Ministry memo shows that the limitation of the set of values is based on 1.mgr. 30. g. Directive from the European Union, No. 849/2015, which states that the Regulation covers business companies and other legislation established on the territory of the Member States. The Ministry's representatives have pointed out that in comparable terms in Norwegian, Swedish, and Finnish laws, the set the standard range by definition of the laws under law rather than list classes as in the bill. In many respects, it is unwise to count those who are under law in an exhaustive way. By doing so in general the nature of those who fall under the standards of the law includes the nature of the people. Avoid the need to change the arrangement for new forms of society. In this context of the bill, the Commission suggests the social legislation for the greater good, no. 785 at the present assembly. At the same time, it is up to the law's standards to be met by choosing a form of society that is not specifically set in the list of legal requirements. Sets up the committee to change pars. that according to the examples of Norway, Sweden, and Finland, the force of the law will be defined by the general language. It will be stated that the law does not apply to enterprises and institutions owned by public bodies or to legislators registered on a structured market, as defined by the terms of the law on Wall Streets. The latter results from the definition of the real owner of Article 13. legalize actions against the financial resources and funding of terrorism, but also 2 st. there is a limit of the law's values of that definition. With the change, it's not intended for a law-enforcement field to be added to the bill. It is suggested that the head of the head of the tax determine whether the law is subject to persons or not. It is suggested in the regulations of the 19th chapter. is adding permission to minister to clarify the principles of the law in the frame of Article 2. Then we will set aside time to register real owners in provisional regulations. provisional regulations in the bill include law-enforcers and when enrolled into a company registry, suspended to provide information according to 2 mg. Section 4. to December 1st, 2019. At the recommendation of the Ministry, the Commission suggests that this may be extended to June 1, 2020. Other changes proposed by the committee are technical and not intended to have material influence. According to the above, the Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the adjustments made in a special Senate document. Under this opinion, everyone writes a letter. Economic and Business Committee members.
