ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u1	Borist has a letter from the financial and economic secretary asking for every appointment to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 868, on resource tax, from Oddný G. Harðardóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u2	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Department of Social Affairs and Juvenile Affairs, Environmental and Resource Ministers and Transport and Regional Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u3	Mr. President. Left and right categories have basically different views of taxes. Right categories view them as a poor necessity for income, while the left groups view them as a vital instrument for normal living. Then there is a need to rethink a tax system for the future. The digital revolution is changing our society. Fewer hands are needed for production and there is a risk that the shareholders' share can multiply and that there is a tremendous rise in the level of inequities. Not surprisingly, the most skilled experts in this field speak of the need to tax the richest. However, there are low taxes from capital incomes compared to other OECD countries. Unlike the past few years, the highest is spoken. With regard to a wide deal of peace, prime minister makes such compromises at the right - to - hand party of Congress that it is difficult to determine VG policy. That's why I'd like to know if it's the highest. The prime minister has become an apostate increase in income taxes on the excessive pay and money tax on a wealthy population. Also, I would like to hear of a minister's attitude toward the multi-stage tax suggested by ASI, but the secretary of finance dismissed and ASI had to correct his mismanagement. Third, resource expenditure has been reduced. The state has weakened its income stock and cannot cope with the necessary structure of infrastructure. Although taxes have increased at the lowest rate and while their weight has been shrinking in recent years, users are now expected to have urbanisation of transport workers instead of financing them with a general tax system. This will add to the lowest wage. They are now to pay which are used rather than pay which can be paid. The highest. The two - minute prime minister explained this change in the left green?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u4	Mr. President. I'll be happy to go into only what this government has been doing in terms of taxes, and I can assure you of that. Logi Leta Einarsson know that he will see there a number of operations to the equation. If we start with it as a dog. A senator noted, however, how tax burden has developed in different ways between income groups, most important is because the changes in the tax system have been made since 2010, when the tax system has been adopted in three stages, and then when the next government followed down the middle step, these steps have followed a different index, a consumer number, the lower level, and the pay number, the upper level. This has resulted in a different way in which income groups have developed the tax burden. It has rightly criticized the National Association of Iceland. And what did the government that I'm leading through my last year? Well, at least not at all. A senator may not have noticed this, so they now follow both the upper and the lower limits of consumption. This is to increase the equation of the tax system, for information at present. A senator. Hv. A senator also asks about capital tax. Let's recall that the capital tax was 10% when the left movement was green and the Conspiracy went together in the 2009 government. We raised him to 20%, and there he has sat until the left movement went back to the government now when he was raised from 20% to 22%. However, it would be an interesting project, and I agree with that. A senator on the matter, comparing capital taxes between different countries where we have had relatively low tax percentages in this country but a broad income stock, a broad tax stock, without much access. If we look to our neighboring countries, there's a higher taxprosentan than that. It varies depending on whether it goes on saving, profit, or profit. And the accessories are completely different from the system here. I would like to see an assessment of the tax bases of capital tax, and that is what is being proclaimed in a government contract, so we can take a real interest in these matters. [[The president calls.]] But I guess it wasn't enough two minutes to talk to you about it. A senator as to whether he considers the cost of fuel to be a common fund, as it is expected that they will have nothing to do with the current expenditures.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u5	Mr. President. Yes, it would be inexpensive to discuss the fuel charges. Should they stay, as well as charge miles? In other words, are those in the community who can least afford to renew their electric car? Shall we? It would be interesting to know. I'm not going to belittle the fact that things have been done, but too little. Surely, an ASI would be calling for more tax reform if it had seen light at the end of the year and found out that it was the best way to choose. It is true that capital taxes have increased from 10% to 20%, and now to 22% a year, although we are still among the lowest nations. I'll bring the highest, too. The prime minister is considering an exception because we need to protect those who have a small amount of savings and a little older. But we have no way of defending people who have hundreds of millions or even scores of billions of dollars on their bank accounts.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u6	Mr. President. There are so many things that need to be settled in these issues because this is then connected with the improvement system. I also must remind you that by the end of the year, children's benefits were greatly increased, so they won't be impaired until minimum wage. The number of children entitled to child reform increased by 2,200. It is also an equation. Hv. A senator came to the resource fees in his first question. We've set up a fishing fee based on a 33% tax cut on the other taxes paid by the sea route. Is that enough? We can deal with that, but most important, they follow the survival process so that those who benefit from using our common resource will gain a certain proportion of that contribution to society. I believe, Mr. President, it is very important that we gain greater peace with the tax system in the community and I believe that we are taking steps with the action we are taking and with this active conversation with the labour market. [[The president calls.]] Of course, all will never be content, but there is also the possibility that the government has offered suggestions on tax issues that should be most effective for those with less income because we want to contribute to the equal role of the tax system. I hope that's okay.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u7	President. It's like the highest. The prime minister knows that the government's opposition has not always been a perfect language. This is normal, since opposition is not for common policy. Whether in the government or not, we have resolved in the Middle Ages to support other groups in good matters. Now it's time to make the most of it. Prime Minister. It's like the highest. Ministers are well aware of breaking Iceland's interview with the European Union on March 12, 2015. I then followed up with letters and visits to Jean-Claudes-Juncker Junckers and Donald Tuskur's request that the application of Iceland finally be canceled. This week I'm planning to propose a conquistador proposal, suggest a subject subject by the General, for the application for involvement in the European Union is no longer advising but concluded that the application should not be applied again without a national law. I don't expect the highest. The prime minister gives support to a form of interpretation that has not yet been established but that can be the highest. The fact that Iceland's application for involvement in the European Union has been retracted is that I am happy. And while people do not return to membership in the EU without the public's first expressing willingness to do so in a national law?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u8	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for bringing up a matter in Iceland's position against the European Union. When applying for participation in the European Union 2009, including with my vote, there was a proposal for a national agreement to be held before such application was submitted. The proposal was made, and I have later said that it would have been good for all to accept that proposal and to act on it before it was decided to apply for membership. My opinion is that it would have been better, that our decision had not been right, in which we agreed to make the suggestion to destroy it. It's a big deal, major cases, to decide to have such an affair, so I'd like to say why. A senator that I have said so since then, after considering these matters and reviewing them considerably, especially in the field of my movement, that I would conclude that I would indiscriminately attack such a application without an opportunity for a national agreement. I agree with what. That's what a senator does.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u9	President. It's a pleasure to hear. I understand the highest. A minister may feel that for the General, there is good reason for her not to apply for reinstatement without the public, the nation, expressing a willingness to do so in a national fee. But what about the first thing? It's the highest. Ministers don't agree with me that it's very enjoyable, that it's a good conclusion that Iceland has withdrawn its application and that we don't have it hanging over us now? I don't talk about how things have developed in the European Union during the past few years and the problems the British face trying to get out of it. Is it not safe to say that we Icelanders have been able not to get any further in there and have withdrew applications for involvement in the European Union?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u10	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator back there. I took a word. paritaprevir The Sigmunds of Gunnlaugsson Gunnulsson could believe it when he did not ask me to express a direct view of a future council decree. I'm going to save myself a sense of joy, but I'd like to say that I think we can learn a great deal from all that happened around the European Union and also from what was withdrawn, because it was also requested national pay on people's attitude toward the European Union. In fact, after the application was canceled, there was a great demand for the nation's position. I'm just going to say that if this council hall could agree to look to the nation for guidance before new decisions are made, I think it would be a success for the nation. I have not personally changed the view that I believe there is no reason for applying for involvement in the European Union. [[The president calls.]] But I have always expressed the view that I am ready to seek the guidance of the nation if the will of the council stands to go back on this journey. That's not what I'm willing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u11	Mr. President. Baltrexit is an example of a national payment in which neither politicians nor interests were directly involved but clearly lied to the British nation. The politicians remain and try to resolve their issues. I think it's best to come clean. We see May May trying to achieve more than one share in the British Parliament for the contract, a few weeks ago. And it doesn't matter who we speak to, whether it's British senators or British government agents, the odds are higher with Biffit. Because it's only seven weeks before I think maybe a hard Bgret will become a reality, I ask the highest. Minister: Has the government ever had a plan? Is the Management plan of the Icelandic government in case and when it becomes hard to accept it? We're looking at the highest. The Minister of Education has, for example. a whole different view of the Bfenit en of the Norwegian coal that exactly warns Norwegian students about going to Britain because of the uncertainty of the involvement of Britain in fusion and collaborating programmes for the next few years in the EU. What the hell does that know? Ministers of Education and the government over Norwegian Ministers in Norway? Therefore, it is of great importance that the Icelandic government clearly declares to the council what the plan will look like if it is hard to deal with. What will be Icelandic interests for fishing, since we know that British rejections are a kind of a ◯mill stop, when Icelandic seafood is introduced into a European market? How can we trust and secure Icelandic interests so that products will not be superseded and therefore no longer competitive in difficult markets? What is involved in taking care of Icelandic interests? What is the plan, and how has it been discussed in the government if it is hard to answer?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u12	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I was surprised to see the Norwegian Education Minister's statement in view of the fact that the Icelandic Ministers and the Icelandic government have communicated with their colleagues and fellow workers in the British government. I had a very good meeting with the prime minister of Britain, May May, this fall, at the end of October, including. was discussed, and we agreed that the rights of Icelandic citizens and British citizens would remain unchanged. The same has been discussed with students' rights, which have been different in terms of not meeting the exact rules in Britain and elsewhere in the European Union, e.g. In terms of currency, however, these rights, as they have been, have been discussed as being guaranteed. I can assure you what. A senator to the highest. The minister of State and the Ministry of State has been working on us to be ready with different stage photos to ensure all rights and legal means between Icelanders and the British end of great business interests. Britain is very weighed down when it comes to the commercial interests of Iceland, so this has been accomplished. We've been focusing on different scenarios because there have been extreme uncertainty, and there's a special point to consider as we approach that day - I don't remember exactly how many days there are to this final age. A senator mentioned. The uncertainty is still very strong, whether an temporary landing is next to it or whether it is actually going to be a hard Baltrexit. I can assure you what. A senator about, and I'm afraid. A foreign press committee was supposed to have been informed that they have been preparing for different stage arts. But there is a possibility that Bbifit, without a contract, will become more difficult to implement, including for us, than a Bgret with a contract. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u13	Mr. President. I'm about to be slided by two masks. I'm a member of the Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee, and I've requested that Wednesday the State Department come over this. I have to say right now, it's like there's no plan. Baltrexone is likely to be after seven weeks. There's no proper plan. Our profile of members of the Parliament from the Archipelago, including the U.S. ... aboutthe fishingwaysis not answered. Neither Minister of Justice nor Foreign Minister will answer anything related to Baltrexit. Time and again, it's just a request from the President's chair. Has the government not done its homework on this matter? Tremendous Icelandic interests are at stake. I'd like to know, was there anything signed when People spoke to May May about these matters? I'm sure it's nice talking to her, but was something signed? And then, in addition to what I've been saying, and we in Correction, we want to say, in view of the above EU and possibly our involvement in the EU, we should trust the country to vote for a contract, not some vague confusion as we see in the United Kingdom. [[The president calls.]] The Icelandic people deserve an agreement on involvement in the European Union and we should trust them to vote for such a deal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u14	Mr. President. I can't figure out what it is. A senator is leaving. May May and I published a joint declaration on the rights of the city, which was published publicly. Hv. A senator does not have to question this. It may well be that the British government has no plan that, of course, makes the plans of others more complex. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator should know, if she has observed the discussion in Britain, that there may be more uncertainty about where the plan is. The Icelandic government has been watching this. Hv. A senator should be well aware that the State Department has drawn a wide range of scenarios and has countless conversations, either in the rank or in the political profession. So do we, Minister. Of course, our primary objective is to ensure the interests and rights of the Icelanders. Hv. A senator must realize that we are here in contact with a state where there is still considerable uncertainty about how Bgret will be handled. Obviously, the Icelandic government has no plan, for we do not know what the outcome will be in Britain.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u15	Not ready...?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u16	A respectable president. A live time bomb is the description of what the Alzheimer's Commission says about the subjects of the elderly in Hafnarfjörður. There are 30 people with brain insufficiency on a waiting list for day space. The town government of Hafnarfjörður has approved a Witness at Drafuna, which can be added immediately to ten day resorts, which were denied by the Ministry of Health. I refuse to believe that a health minister has come to that. The Matrix is a place where there is a day-training program for brain failure. Recently, a person with cerebral insufficiency has been transferred from Hafnarfjörður to Húsavík, which separated a couple. Is that acceptable? I say no. How many mates are struggling to care for a sick mate without help? Is Failure the Only Answer? That's a ridiculous solution, and there's no solution because we have to think about it. We must realize that by 2030 the number of older citizens has increased from 42,000 to more than 60,000. And I ask the minister, Is this acceptable? Will she make sure that this ten - space space will be new? It does not have to build housing; it is cost solely. There's a lot of heat in the emergency room. Is there the only solution to brain failure, and is there any solution that will be made to the town government of Hafnar to do something about these matters right away?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u17	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir the query. That's right. That's right. A senator concluded that this request has been denied by Hafnarfjörður, an explanation that has not been reached on the National Medical Insurance Convention with Service Providers. But this is an enormously important group of lawsuits, a group of lawsuits that I want to highlight this year, and in fact, I have received direction from the Senate that there was a lack of direction in the affairs of brain failure in Iceland. The General concluded to hide a minister that such policies are taking place, and they are now under way. I want to know in my answer to this question, because it is spoken of as being completely empty, that in the last year, it was adopted a message from Hrafunnist, Reykjavík, to turn 11 nurses into a 30 - day space for people with cerebral insufficiency. That was in the autumn when, of course, this delicate group of subjects was greatly affected. And because of what? A senator asks if there really is no alternative to finding the emergency department of the Land Hospital, then over the past few years, it was decided to raise the budget by 130 million for support of home care. It is the means by which we need to improve significantly, and it is very important to establish a more specialized home care for the elderly and to ensure continued recovery from home nursing with the authority's emphasis on supporting independent farms. It's all part of a project that hangs together, but in this particular assignment. A senator asks about them at the source of the turned point from what we have learned here that there is no agreement with Iceland's Medical Insurance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u18	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. We need to realize that we are the great surviving boats of the northern countries of this country. The Icelandic health system does not seem to be ready to take on this category, and it does not improve when older citizens become large - scaled. But the most serious thing about this is what I find to be forgotten is the stress placed on the spouse. And what are we doing with it? Yeah, we're pushing the problem to another person, and then it gets sick and it's making the system sick again. There is no solution. If this is about a solution to Iceland's Medical Insurance, we'll just solve it, we'll get in there. The need is complete, and something must be done. We've got to get out of here. We've got to get out of here. Acceleration is not the solution to the problem created by brain failure. Brain - minded people need to be close to their loved ones, and we must make sure that they get the appropriate service in close surroundings.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u19	A respectable president. Trouble is we're what we're trying to do. A senator agrees on the importance of taking good care of the man - made environment for the most vulnerable groups in this community. How long ago it is time for us to join together and make sure that our priorities are set for these groups! That is what we are doing by establishing long - term, time - consuming medical policies. I also want to guess in this answer that resting arrangements are also a major part of the support of continued independent living and are relevant to these matters, as well as to family and support. In the next two years, we are increasing the number of nurses around 200 spaces, most of them in the capital area. The sea is set up for another 206 new air space, and in addition, there are plans for building a further 266 new space in the years to come. So we really do put our hands ahead of time in raising the number of nurses, especially the special space and the days mentioned here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u20	President. Tomorrow we will begin a second discussion of the transport program at the council. However, in view of declarations, this plan does not seem to be very long, as the next autumn revision has already been published, a reimbursed revision. That's what I said. Prime Minister that certain features were declared in a government contract and at the highest level. Thus, a minister of transportation has said in an interview that there is no masquerade on the terms of the government covenant. A reporter's question about the lack of plans for such operations answers to a minister: No, they were put aside and some other forms of law to put on cars even though we're picking up green taxes, such as carbon taxes. In fact, the Treaty says of transportation that there is room over the years to take advantage of government property on such projects. The message at the beginning of the season was clear: transport promotion and no road expenses. However, it turned out to be much smaller than averages, and the promise of no charges disappeared at the same time. President. We are now to be working by the laws on public finances, where the baseline responsible financial management is stable and established where government policy is stated in a government contract and implemented in a financial program. The purpose is set in writing, but the promise of a high - paying campaign is found in the Treaty and the words of the Minister at the beginning of the ideal period. What, then, can we expect when those promises fly out of the window a year later? What is required in breaking the Mosaic Law? How important is he when the other is, and this is being proclaimed in a government covenant? Is this the standard of the Independence Party that wants to place government wealth in a national fund? Is it not possible for the secretary of finance to contribute just to finance the national fund with a payment for transportation in which there is nothing in the government covenant? Why don't we deserve some privacy and stability in the Icelandic economy and tax returns instead of such a roundabout? If the government cannot fulfill these words in its own government covenant, how can it deal with something else? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u21	A respectable president. I thank you for an interesting inquiry that seems to be about the senator's amazing vision that only what is in the Treaty Treaty Treaty of three categories of conglomerates is what is to be done and nothing else. No matter what happens, in order to create the climate management of the government, plans for transport energy change, to form information that was published after the government's contract of fuel expenditures just under road management may be reduced by up to 50% in the next seven years. Should the government, then, do nothing because it had not been written in a government covenant? What the hell is this shit, anyway? Senator? Of course, we need to respond at any given time. We're putting up with certain things here. A protocol program was established. When I presented it, I said that in the perfect world, I would like to bring this transport plan one year later, after one year, when all the things we had were playing out were done. That's why I immediately indicated that there might well be a new transport strategy at that time, and at least a transport strategy should be submitted. every three years. There's nothing to be ashamed of. You're right. A senator said that I had said in the beginning: There is nothing about the roadtoll gate in my formula. I've never spoken, however, about the Whalewalk model, never anywhere, ever, and not my party. [[Up front.]] When discussing these things, it would be good for us to be ready to put the facts on the table and then try to talk us out to the reasonableest solution. One of the most reasonable things is to maintain stability in the community. I agree with what. A senator in it. As a result, we need to associate with financial policy with the respect it needs to have in order for it to be a source of financial discipline. Budgeting is part of it. [[The president calls.]] We are simply looking for ways to get it done, which is called in the community. How we finance it exactly will be revealed. Therefore, we can deliver the transport program for the next few days, whatever it may be, and new decisions will always arise and they will be discussed here at the council and need the support of the council in order to become reality. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u22	A respectable president. This was an interesting twist on the roadside gates and on the roads. Do you see the difference? How are the roadtoll gates in modern times? Don't people just drive back and forth, and they charge by electronic equipment or something like that? There's no difference between roads and roadside gates. There's a bit of a twist going on at the highest level. Minister. V.E.G. That's exactly what one minister said was not a bar on charges, roadtoll gates, or anything like that. There are plenty of means to finance these projects. It has been shown in the management of environmental and transport committees. One of them, for example, is, as I mentioned, in the constitution: There is room for future years to take advantage of government property on such projects. Is it not possible to do so anymore because they are to be used in a national fund? They suddenly disappeared. There is a change in government policy. And that's what I call a roundabout when a year after the reign of a government contract has been established, which should be the basis for what is being proclaimed in a government contract, such as the Supreme Court. Prime Minister said in unsubstantiated queries just before... [[The president calls.]] If one thing is to be proclaimed in a government covenant, why is there to be no other covenant declared in a government covenant?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u23	A respectable president. I didn't get that in my first answer, it's exactly what's started in a transport program. They're using property revenues. Unlike many in this hall have understood when we were making money, wanting to start making money from banks, the very first time in our last financial plan was three years'pay. Why no longer? Because this is a precautionary reason not to go further. This figure refers to 5.5 billion a year for transport development. Therefore, it may be wondered that in a transport program that will be implemented today in spring, one more year can be added, and the government will continue on that trend. This income has been estimated only three years into the future, and it truly is in the transport program, from income to 16.5 billion, never more money that has been put into the transport program. But called from the community, the calls I know that, in particular, the members of the environment and transport committees have experienced in their work on a transport program, they were going to have to do even more. [[The president calls.]] We've been looking for ways to do that. All the answers have not been on the table, so we need to establish a new transport plan for the next fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u24	Mr. President. Special transportation is essential to the area. The government has taken on an acceptable connection between national settlements and roads, flights, and in a few cases by ferrying the capital. To the capital, all the people attend a mass service, and it is enough to include all major hospital and medical services, recruitment and legislation administration, and many other things. In recent years, it has naturally led to the disappointment of many Aegeans that northern waters are not sailed to the land of the islands. It went so far that last week the whole town council in the Western Islands wrote about the situation. In the Western Islands, there is much to learn. The harbor is closed and not being deepened, despite beautiful promises and ideal circumstances. In the fall of the road, the decision was to negotiate with new parties for the depth of the harbor for the next three years, and despite the loud protests of the town's authorities, was made by a person who was known to be better than anyone else, we hope for the job. At the request of the town government, they offered a FebruaryD in the Landing Islands, but offer at that depth was denied to all. The decision was then made within the road to negotiate with the one nearest to the cost. That's why I'm asking the highest. Transporter: How do these negotiations go, and when can we expect these contracts to be completed in order to be useful in winter weather?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u25	A respectable president. I can understand and support the concern of the Western government because there is no place to sail in the country of the Islands when the weather is good. Looking back on a mere human life, the estimates of expectation, just in December and January, were quite large in the schedules that existed, and especially in the still - being ship. In fact, the predictions were so far up that it was unlikely that an old Gelf would be able to go to the land island when men left with it. The hopes were originally that the port would be open only a much shorter period of time, perhaps eight or nine months, but they then have estimated that the new ferry would be much smaller. That is why I understand that when people experience a lot better and more natural transportation when the ferry can go to the Pacific, they want to have such expectations at all times. It goes all over the country and the call of every government around the country and the people that they can always make it, every day. We are always trying to improve our ministry - snow or sharks - just to meet the fact that the whole country is always open. But we do know that it will not. We can't control nature. Newlf's not here yet and about where exactly the contracts are going in these days are between the Roadmaker and some candidate for immersion, I don't have any information. I'll find out and let the senator know.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u26	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Since he mentioned this with the landy sea, the island of 2010 was instigated with optimism at the opening of the landshore. 97% of travel throughout the year in the New Landsport was to be secure by the 2010 harbor. Now there is high expectations for the arrival of a new ship in spring instead of the 27 - year - old General. Tourist companies, hotels, and other companies, in the Western Islands, suffer severe setbacks when they are unable to rely on the ships of the ferry and have been living in the island for many years with increased uncertainty in this regard. It is not overhistoric that there is a bloodbath in the island because of the infidelity of transportation. I reiterate what I've said before, it's time to finish a landy crew, so I ask the highest. A minister whether he agrees with me in the matter of extending the ports so that they can avoid ever again sanding in front of the marina into the harbor and make the dock practical for the whole year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u27	Mr. President. For your last request, why? I've told a senator here with some special senators that although I'm the secretary of transportation, I'm not an expert, in neither the dock nor the road. That's why I won't agree with that. A senator says it's the right thing to do. I know, however, and what. A senator also knows that the development of sandy oceans, such as the landy sea, takes time. You need to learn from experience. Models have to be developed and experimented, and that's what's being done. What is the exact way? I know there are many self-organized experts. Maybe there's a reason. A senator with a clear answer, but I haven't heard the expert on the Roadmaker being on the line that this is the only way. Men have been testing other routes, and I really hope they're going along, and I really hope that a new ship, a new Colonel, will live up to the expectations we have, that the rest will be as small as possible. We have also said, and I have said, that until this experience is established, old Esther needs to be on hand and be able to sail in case of failure. [[The president calls.]] The hopes and hopes are high, and I am one of those who have high hopes and hopes for success.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u28	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Social and child-friendly minister for participating in this discussion on urgent solutions. One of the basic laws of the government at one time is that people can form and own homes, without life - long debt and without having to pay too much money for housing expenses, whether paying loans or depositors. These basic needs have been difficult for the Icelandic government to meet. At the same time, about 45% of the people aged 18 in the age of 29 live in parents'homes. These young people will not be able to save money in an apartment, since income will not allow room for savings at the same time as rent prices are rising. As housing costs have increased more and more, making the amount needed to obtain mortgages rising constantly. The joy of the puerperium has changed to the joy of the post - traumatic years. Some 1,200 students are listed for housing in the capital area. The demand for student camps has grown with an ever more unfashionable tenet, but it may well be that the city of Reykjavík has undergone extensive construction of student camps, which are now largely rising, including the waters of the country's largest student parks. But more is needed. In the past few years, however, the problem of housing is a systematic problem that has resulted from government policy. Iceland has done more special policies on housing than has been practiced elsewhere. It is good and happy that people will be given the opportunity to have their own home and housing. But worse, after independents and candidates took the bad steps of putting down the labor - building system, making it possible for poorer people to have roofs over their heads with extended interest, they have not found a way to address the housing problems of those who cannot raise high sums of money. Young people who are planning to start homes are particularly uncomfortable. It is practically thrown into God's hand unless it has a powerful sponsor, parents who can contribute money. The special policy also appears in the tenet. There is a greater supply of such facilities in private property here than in most other places. It is a means of employment and a means of profit. In recent years, financiers have so much soared on rent markets and have had almost self - worth in the interest of tenants. As a result of our course, young people will not be able to leave home, uncast. They live in their old room, lives in the basement, lives out in the garage, even with their own families. The government's options, in turn, are more and less about the provision of special property savings, i.e. young people who have sufficient income to make a living should be set aside ahead of them to have a home. In other words, it is commanded to take the best loan of all. Numbers indicate that only about half of tenants usually have special requirements. A respectable president. A team has provided proposals for housing, which in many respects are similar to the UN's proposal for a housing action program now available for treatment. The welfare committee. There are many fine ideas, and if the government follows them and finances them, the situation in housing would continue to improve. Still, there is little there to be found to help young people who are in trouble now, young people who have even been in trouble for a long time. We've suggested that we come here on the start planet to the Norwegian role model. We would like to increase housing benefits, making it possible for young people and microorganisms to share housing for such improvements. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister how he likes these ideas of our starting loans and higher housing benefits.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u29	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Andri Thorsson for taking up houses here, which are an enormously important case, as did the senator in his speech. Of course, it is possible to review and reflect on the statistics, the weight of the status of young people on housing in the country in recent years, and the exactness of the senator's position in this regard. It is harder for young people to go to the housing market than it has been. Young people later go to the mortgage market and older people when they buy their first property and/or move away from home. It is also proper to keep it in place that much more of the tenants in hire want to have their own housing. The Senator here raised the current action and gave a suggestion for the campaign group that returned on January 22, 2000. It's the government's proposal. The government has said that in housing, as in other major matters, we want to have a good cooperation and cooperation with the trade unions and with the labour market partners on further development of the housing system. It is not entirely true what the senator said, that it had not been able to create a model which could provide a small amount of money to help with a housing market that wanted to be in a lease because the overall apartment system established here, 2015, under the direction of that social and housing minister, Eygló Harðardóttir, has given way. However, it has taken a little longer to get going. Although the building society has taken a little longer than it was in existence, all evidence suggests that over the years it will be very powerful enough into the housing market, as well as that the public apartment system has been able to support handsome development of student camps. It is a joy to see that the campaign group come to the conclusion of building on the foundation laid here in 2015, but the group presented a number of suggestions to help build up housing, including unfortunate tenets. It was also designed to reduce financial costs, speed up construction projects, and increase incentives to increase housing and building on suitable apartments. These were 40 suggestions now in further processing by the government and further discussions with the labour market partners about the time frame we see on this, how they play into collective agreements, the amount of money we imagine coming into, like the general housing system, and in what way this will be applied further. I hope there's a positive result. I haven't found anything else, and it's a pleasure that everyone sitting at the table was agreeing on these lines. The senator also asks: " What measures are there for those who want to buy their first property? ' It is clear in the government covenant that it is going to bring measures to make it easier for young people to buy their first estate. It is now working under the leadership of Sigurjónsson Siglejonsson, former general and former chairman of the Council's Economic and Business Committee, which is about to evaluate the extent to which we can assist young people in entering the Homblem. There's the Ministry of finance, the Ministry of Presidency, and other members. We even look there. to what was said when this work was started, that young people can take advantage of their pensions. We look to the Swiss route in this context and to our neighboring countries, such as Norway. The Senator asks what they think about the suggestions of the United States on housing. We should listen to practical suggestions, no matter where they come from. In this case, what makes me most happy is that the Union that I have heard of the only solution to housing problems in Iceland is to enter the European Union or to adopt euro, is to look to Norway, a country outside the European Union, for solutions to building and strengthening the market. For that, I wish. A senator and the United States congratulating. After that, I'd like to say I'm looking at this, so no matter where good ideas come from, whether they come from the United States or anyone else, it's because if we can get together for broad suggestions, as it happened with the campaign group, it's a cause for joy because there's a huge need for it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u30	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir The divinity of Andri Thorsson, for today's discussion. She's very important and good. What I would like to avoid this time, considering the challenges of young people in a housing market, is whether there is no reason to extend a provision for using special property as part of other measures necessary. Hv. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson only came into it earlier. By paying on an apartment loan with additional pension savings, the individual earns taxes and counterpayer's contribution as well as reduces overall interest rates and benefits. In the middle of the company, we moved some adjustments to the last budget. I'm afraid it was dropped, but according to information from pension funds, this strategy has been significantly used. More than 6,500 people have applied to buy on their first apartment. Last October, nearly 3,000 were borrowed, and the same month 408 applications were received according to government taxpayer information. In terms of domestic purchases, those who have taken advantage of this resource have been able to obtain special tax - tax frees for an apartment. Therefore, it is important to extend this provision as a help in solving the problems of young people in a facility, and I encourage them to do so. A minister to the gratitude of that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u31	A respectable president. I like others to thank you. A senator for this important discussion. It's a big, big discussion, and it's hard to go over a lot in two minutes, but we'll have the opportunity later today to discuss the housing situation rather under inquiry. What we need to stress about this series now is information, intelligence, and ensuring information to young people who want to enter the housing market. What is the difference between buying property in this area and other people, and why is this difference? What's your offer? The answer to these questions without the need for each one to take a full research on the best way to buy. Also, informing the available resources. I'm not sure that all young people know of all these legal provisions that they have, like their special savings and how they can use them. We need to let them live up to their expectations by getting information, what they can expect of housing, and how they can make these expectations come true, and what options are available to them. We also need to think about this sooner for those who are coming here and going to college or are moving out of the country, young people who want to get on their own and live their own lives. I think that the loan system, as well as the rent payments and other rules may have to be cleared so that they can rent with grandparents or other older people. Then the older ones get companionship in their homes, they don't have to meet the strict demands of a special apartment and so forth, and young people can live with someone who may live in a large home, but they still get their loans or rents and other things. There are many such measures that we need to keep in mind too. - Now we're two minutes out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u32	President. During the longest economic rise in the history of the Republic, young people have remained, despite the increase in money and much economic growth. The value of education continues to decline, and students have to pay more and more rents and often the exact amount of loans they never see to it. The balance of work and personal life and the security of young people is getting worse, and no group is as bad as measurements of stress, loneliness, and unhappiness. Little wonder, then, that young people do not trust to start families and thus have children much more in their lives than those of previous generations. But just focus on the position of young people in a house - to - house market. The share of young people on housing goes down, and real - estate prices have gone up far beyond what most people can contribute to. Instead of dealing with the real problem, i.e. Lack of affordable housing, young people have been encouraged to use their special savings in an extinct real estate market to go into debt. The tenant market is even worse. Nowhere in the North countries is renting a higher proportion of revenues in low income groups than here, far beyond what is considered acceptable. In Iceland, underpayers are paying about 50% of their rent income. As a result, more and more people live in parents' homes for as long as possible. President. The proposals of an event group to volunteer on apartments introduced to the latest sounds like a great deal. But I decided not to talk about them here today. The reason is simple. A number of ideas cost money, money that I think is great at fighting for everyone's housing. So I eagerly await the next government financial programme that will reveal whether something should be done. In the meantime, these suggestions are just beautiful wishes, words on paper in times where we desperately need action.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u33	Mr. President. The plight of young people in the housing market has been ongoing for a long time. It should be self - righteous for young people to be able to get to a housing market, whether by rent or by first purchase. It is therefore a pleasure to see the results of a group made by the prime minister, to produce good suggestions, and to form a broad, solidarity over them, and a need for them to be carried out as soon as possible. These include suggestions that the camp loan fund lends to the poor - priced flatmates at an advantage more affordable than others. We know the laws on general apartments that have proved successful. The problem of young people is also that it is difficult to finance payment at the first purchase of an apartment. Now, as we have seen, a team of workers who are looking for solutions. Of course, it is bloody not to be able to buy a house when the burden of payment is the same in a month whether you buy or rent, but the threshold is to finance payment. Young people are expected to have the opportunity to choose the avenues for housing that are convenient for them. Of course, as it is today in the capital area, less apartments are desperately needed for rent or purchase. People run back to their father's house or in unassigned homes or to move abroad. I'd also like to mention that I find it urgent to consider the possibility that young people of the region who are attending high school in the capital area have a potential for housing that is especially meant for them students, since there are only schools for college students, which, of course, are necessary to continue building up. There is a great need for dormitory in the capital area for high school students from the region to support education equality. The problem in the country is also great, and it is very difficult for young people to borrow from the banks of every country, where the bets are less substantial. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u34	President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Andri Thorsson's divinity for starting this important matter. I'd also like to thank the labour market partners for waking up the government from its thorny sleep in housing. It took the labor movement to promote the government's influence in these matters. I now remember the criticism of at least two different governments of the last government for forgetting to mention housing in their government covenant, but still provided a major arrangement for housing. Certainly, that government remembered to mention this in the government covenant, but it did nothing about it. What's worse is that she took very good suggestions for the last government in housing, which were more and less with the same partners and now stand at the reception of prime minister, and put them on a shelf, did nothing with them. There have been more than a year in which nothing has happened in these areas and, unfortunately, the labour market party seems to need to be awakened to this level of activity. Of course, it may be noted that the overall living area system is at its highest level. The minister referred to earlier is just to the initiative of the European Union in making collective agreements in 2013. There's a lot of good things to be done in the top staff. The prime minister, for he is more and less compatible with the proposals made in his new government's housing contract. Therefore, I am very sorry that these more than a year had passed without any action, and despite repeated references to this in a talk on the topic of housing over the past year that the Ministry of Social Affairs was an excellent proposal and ideas in cooperation. we rural society on how to deal with this problem. I really hope that the government will then be more efficient on the road. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u35	A respectable president. Here we discuss the challenges of young people in a housing market. Before we go any further, I would like to look back a little bit and ask, " How in the world is it that we have come into this terrible crisis? ' Why is it that thousands of apartments are missing? How is it that we make it possible for our young people not to get a roof over their heads but to deal with it so that we watch our men flee ashore? However, I would like to thank you for what a group of prime ministers are doing here and now, for there are many positive aspects of this work. But why not consider what is one of the most fundamental problems that young people can face in investing in property? Then I'm not talking about the real estates being built now that are at great cost that it is only for obviouss over their heads to buy in there. It is a very small part of a new structure that is possible for young people to invest in. I'd like to talk about the insurance policy that has cost the home of this country and the company about 118 billion dollars. over the last five years. Only the index has cost the home and company 118 billion dollars. What is it, a respectable president, standing in such a paratroopers here in this hall that it is not possible to take away this house? I'm counting on it to the highest. Ministers of well - being, social matters, and child welfare, make sure these housings go out to give our young people the opportunity to at least standing up to a commitment when it comes to inflating oneself if it is possible to have a roof over your head.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u36	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. Of course, it is impossible to talk about the problems of young people or other people in housing except about financial market conditions, high interest here, and insurance. Otherwise, it's like you're talking into something. Many times it is difficult to find out that these matters are not to be discussed with us except the kind of person involved in cutting down an old tire tire tire. Why are there interest in apartment loans around 7% and 1.7% Faeroe Islands? Why can't there be any debate about the fact that all prices due to change are exposed to the weaker parties in the contract? Why is there no discussion about the mortgage? He spends his life like a bruise on the homes and put 118 billion on top of his home. It was wrong here earlier, he puts 118 billion on top of his homes, and then there's countless things he puts on the companies. This is a request from the person to the highest. Secretary of finance on the cost of state funds. So it is noted that the committee produced a more detailed report on the future of Icelandic money policy. She believes that housing is not a cause of inflation but a problem on the forward side of the housing market. And yet no one does anything about it, and there's no discussion. Indirect taxes increase the index, raise the scalp, and add a load of payment. As I have noted many times here, increases in carbon costs are increasing in order to achieve the climatic objectives of head chairs and heavy payment loads. You can't talk about it. I'd like to allow myself to call attention to my bill and to more members of the council, which will address all these matters with a suggestion for a change in growth and insurance law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u37	Mr. President. House - to - house affairs have long been in the open, and the lack of government activity has caused a crisis. The status and purchase rates of young people are worst. The recent proposals of the government's campaign group are as good and sound as they reach, and they are in many ways very similar to the Union's proposals since autumn. But they're all too late and they're completely unsaid. Given that it wasn't the will to increase funding for stock or for interest and housing improvements, as the Conspiracy suggested in the transitional process, I just place a considerable question mark on the government's ambition. The poverty trap that young people face when parents cannot strengthen them for housing is just one form of discrimination in this country. Another manifestation is that people under 30 have taken five additional provisions less than we who are over 50. By the increasing rent - rent market price, these young people are being held captive to profit markets. The proposals of the campaign group I mentioned earlier are good for shorter time, but they do not help any of these people who are now in a difficult market. We're in the United States for action, including... about starting with a Norwegian model, to help people who can't get conventional loans to get into an apartment right away. Then we also assumed that interest and housing would increase more, and we must lay the weight on it. Mr. President. We need at least... a lot of activity.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u38	V.E.G. President. We've got a lot of work to do, the last thing we need to do. A speaker, Logi Einarsson. I agree with that. We're talking about the housing market, and especially the problems of young people. Thank you. paritaprevir The divinity of Andri Thorsson for taking up this discussion and the highest. Minister of Social Affairs, Ásmundur The Einar Daðason, for informing us of the measures and ways to the highest. The government's in charge. The initiative group suggestions are, as we have seen in the discussion, a positive entry. It is important to follow them along with practical measures that also benefit young people, and it is also important to complete the suggestions of a group of working men who are particularly relevant to young people and who are in need of access to the housing market. Then I'm referring to a staff headed by Frosti Sigurjónsson, former drive. Senator and chairman of the Economic and Business Committee. I am convinced that there will be some very helpful suggestions. Of course, there is no single operation that will be done once and for all the work that is being done on a housing market or in young people starting to live under their own roofs or rents. There have been steps that have been taken to help with the first purchase, but there have also been a number of factors that have melted this system and that have led many to go wrong. Price insurance is one example. It makes it appear that we have built too many square feet because the load of payment is only for eternity. But we can handle it. There's one thing. We're building too many square feet. The mood has changed, young people don't want so many square feet, so big. We need to build cheap, fewer square feet, and more in order to face the shortage.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u39	V.E.G. President. I'm grateful for this discussion that we might have taken to the council, since there's a heat distribution. For some years, the furlough has taken the lead in the United States, and now with the help of restoration, Pirata, and others, they have been shamed. Man has suffered loss of property, and the few weights that have been given have been sold in braking with construction companies and fortune - tellers. Now that so many apartments have been built in Reykjavík for rich people, there are not enough wealthy people to buy them. There is too much money in the city of Reykjavík, but there is a shortage of apartments for ordinary people and especially young people at the same time. This can be prevented by assigning weights, as has actually been done in neighboring communities, e.g. More property was distributed in Mosfellstown than in Reykjavík one year. It shows the ambition of the capital. This loss of weight is man - made, and it can be corrected. There are areas that can be taken both at the Wolf's Valley and by Geldinganei, and there you can plan for a place where young people can slide. In the middle of this, the government decides to throw out the special savings that should have benefited young people who are gathering for their first purchases, especially because, as we have seen, the first period is higher, and men have the ability to make a good payment from study to build a roof over their heads. However, there are two things we have to correct in order for young people to want at another table to build in Iceland. One is to turn down the fucking interest bags, excuse me, Mr. President, and take out the prices once and for all time. It just takes courage to get involved. The other is that young people can not be expected to move home to Iceland when they offer interest at 1.5 to 52 percent of the unconvinced loans where they live. [[The president calls.]] We can't expect it to come into this slavery. By correcting this so that the government will take a firm stand and agree with what the Central Party said in the fall of continuing with the special kick, and by being assigned enough land for young people, we can turn it around. [[The president calls.]] That's all it takes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u40	A respectable president. One down. A senator earlier said: We have a lot of work to do. I want to say, we've done a lot of things, especially in Mosfellstown and neighboring communities in the capital area. I was going to be a part of this, for the housing market is a huge deal. There are a lot of people who can smell it. I'm going to reiterate that we call this housing market because it's a market where supply and demand are going to be. Of course, part of this market is a reason to be inside the social system, but we must never go far enough to expect the whole housing market to be a social system. There must be a place for those who need it, but it's a market. And the market depends on the production, how much is produced. No matter how many times we'll discuss this at the council Hall or look at the general cornea, we'll not add real estate in the capital area, no matter how much we're arguing about how much money we're going to put into it. It takes people to build these apartments. I'd like to remind you that in a national organization approved here on 2015-2016, it was scheduled to take place between 2015 and226, see section 3.2.2 on practical structure: The development of housing and employment building policies taking into account the predictable needs of the community and the demographics of future changes. The variety of facilities, such as building and size, will be supported. A wide variety and flexible housing that contributes to social diversity and, in this context, special attention must be given to providing housing for all income groups. It's been a while since we told you. We've been talking about this for all these years, and that's why I'm just saying, "What's going on? An excellent national policy was also set for us to have information about the state of the market. To date, the National, Organization, and the European Union were assigned to gather all the information available to rural society. We know how much it's all about. We know what has been given construction permits and how large these apartments are. We talk about electronic administration, yet we're still talking about the same show. Although the information is available, this must meet in some database so that the market will have information on what is going on in the year and in the years to come. [[The president calls.]] That's how the market works best. He needs information in order to meet the requirements we expect of him.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u41	Mr. President. If we look at how likely these suggestions all come to bear, let us first ask: What was the government's plan when it put together the government covenant? In the government covenants, there are more than one and a half boxes of housing, but there is very little in there. The situation of earners and young people is described as getting into the market, but there are two lines. That's really lean. It's certainly about information, and it talks about taking the possible insurance out of the index and stuff like that. It's very lean. Then, another thing happens, it's gonna be spring work, and the labor movement's on its way. The labor movement starts to put pressure on governments to solve problems, including It's a big house deal. Okay, we can count on this government to see that it started out and ended up with this team of initiatives to expand the provision of apartments and other measures to improve housing status. There are the ASI, the Coalition of Colleges, the BSRBs, the Association of Professional Life, the Substitute Bank, and others. That's good. Another group was reassigned that should specifically examine young people in this context. He's still working. Many benefits come from the findings that have come from the labor movement at the present time, and the labor movement has generally promised it to a high level but also mentioned that, of course, the pay has to be increased, and this does not prevent it. This could clearly help the landing of collective agreements. The fact is, from 2011-2016, the buying power increased 20% of the largest group of earners by 34%, whereas, by the same time, we increased the lighting number by double, so we know that the situation is very bad. How likely is the government going to carry out these ideas? We will see the first indication of the appearance of financial programs in two, three months. Is there anything in this program there? That will be the first clue, and then look at the following classes. I'd like to point out the left green, that according to a poll Gallup did for Pirata, it's the most important thing for women. [[The president calls.]] I also direct people that these are matters that concern young people the most. It is by far the most widely spoken of this and of the low income.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u42	Mr. President. Thank you so much for the discussion. The status of young people and the poor in a housing market is an urgent task, and it is important to approach them not only out of special policy but also out of choice and options for these groups. I also welcome the results of an effort group on the increase of housing costs and other measures to improve housing status as quoted here. There are many excellent suggestions and mapping; these results can be read to form a ten - percent increase in rented households between 2006 and 2016, while the total number of households in this country grew only 14% in the same period. The majority of tenants are young people and more household income than their tenants are in the range of 250,000,800,000. per month. The household expenses have increased far beyond the prices and salary. Young people and low income have found it harder to buy their own housing, and tenacity has been common. When we are dealing with the housing issues of young people, we must do what we can to contribute to a more healthy tenet, as well as a healthier supply of less expensive housing. The aim is that in the Icelandic housing market, there will also be an unfavourable housing system that ensures that adequate housing can be afforded to groups in question, as shown in these proposals. Then, too, let us look to the suggestions on seeking other ways to increase the availability of suitable apartments, whether for purchase or for rent. I'd like to allow myself, Mr. President, to disagree very strongly. Council members of Sæmundsson and Bryndís Haraldsdóttir that it is the market to resolve this issue because we saw another activity at Reykjavík,borg, in the affairs of young people introduced at the mayor's meeting in November. At that time, the 500 practical apartments were presented for young people who are burdening themselves on the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of New York, which was approved in 2017. [[The president calls.]] It is possible if both countries and rural groups are willing to establish social priorities and thus meet young people, young families, when it comes to ensuring a safe roof over their heads. There are areas, and there is a political will, unlike that. Senators Þorsteinn Sæmundsson and Bryndís Haraldsdóttir said in their speeches.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u43	President. What is more urgent when it comes to solving the problem of housing markets is to ensure steady and abundant supply of property for housing and not merely to provide enough but to provide enough of the right housing. In this regard, our organizational arrangements have failed during the recent years, even as we can see them. while there is a serious shortage of cheap, practical housing for young people, the city's center has built too much expensive luxury camps. That's where we need to do better. It is good to see that in the proposals of a prime minister's group, there is even one. as was done in the last government's proposal, rural communities, common in both the capital area and also on the southwestern corner of the country and the integrated economic areas throughout the country, band together to ensure a sufficient amount and size of living apartments. A lot of things have been done, including with the general housing system and increased emphasis on the structure of the student's tissue and social housing, in an effort to meet all the most income-involved populations. However, it is still a very crying problem how young people who wish to have their own home can do so. There's a lot of things you can look at, and I'm glad you're doing it. A minister mentioned that there is no matter where good ideas come from. Although we have lost a year by not working on the housing proposals of the last government, which are in agreement with the ones that have been observed, there is a bill at the Parliament that we have made on wood to extend the special law that I believe is very well qualified to help especially the young to provide the first purchase, using the related part of the pension industry, the one authorized to provide special property for this. This is of utmost importance to help people break the first difficult step that is to collect for a head chair. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it will not be avoided to mention the obvious, the elephant in the room, which is the highest. A minister might belittled, but that is the cost of interest. [[The president calls.]] He's a dizzy hair here, and he's bound to be connected with our coin and its instability. V.E.G. Minister. Walking in the European Union and reducing growth is of vital importance. [[The president calls.]] [[Flmrh....must ruin such a good speech...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u44	The president would like to point out that if anything happens. Councilmen go so far past the times, they say something new that has not been heard before. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u45	A respectable president. I also want to talk about the elephant in this relationship, okra, and I won't forget the insurance policy. I'd like to remind you that over a five - year period, 20123/42017, the prices of an apartment loan due to a general increase in prices have taken over 15 billion, but at the same time, 118 billion have fallen on the price-settling mortgages due to the impact of the housing team. In other words, the share of house - to - house prices is of no less than 88.7%. Imagine, you know, the fruit of the yoke and the housing. V.E.G. Minister. I don't doubt that you'll be able to tie up the ropes and do something about it because if there's something in the long term that's going to turn over to our young people and give them a measure of security, they never know if they're coming or going and what's going on in our really unstable little community, we have to do something to ensure the safety of these people. Besides, it seems impossible when we have this system of payment that we now have that young people, who are not financially equipped to stand in these yokes and all the yoke that is right, will not even get paid. What can we do there when they are thought able to pay $200,000? 150,000, not 150,000. of real estate loans? Isn't there somewhere a broken pot worth considering really helping them with their whole mind?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u46	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for his participation in this discussion, and I also thank all those who have given excellent and brilliant talks, some of which, equally clever, but not quite unskilled. This discussion has, as expected, followed some traditional paths, even in conventional foxholes and such as no other. The talk has been directed to Reykjavíkurburg and to the expected failures of Reykjavíkurburg on transport and property. This may not be the scene to do so in the short time we have here, but it may well be that in recent years the city of Reykjavík has been built up to an enormous structure, built on a tremendous scale in the city of Reykjavík in 201530,2017. At that time, 900 apartments rose, and 2018 was the largest building year in the history of Reykjavík. It is only natural that this huge supply has caused those who own their apartments to try to keep the watch on their apartments by means of the discussion and not much to say. We're just waiting for these apartments to get their prices normal. I think it's important to make sure that housing needs to be increased. They start cutting way too early. [[The president calls.]] They start to lose their minimum wage and are almost gone when the median pay is reached. I want you to know that it is the Council policy that will hopefully be carried out by the government and I hope the government will look well at the Norwegian model. [[The president calls.]] That's what I said, thank you very much. Minister of the discussion and all members of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u47	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussion that has taken place here and actually welcome it. It's hard to get into all the points that have been brought on because it was killed on many sides of this great series of languages. But I'd like to come on a few things. It is quite clear that, in large measure, this depends on supply and demand, and it is important to ensure enough supply of property, as many members of the Parliament have been involved. At the same time, it is important to ensure that, while it is both a state and rural society are not afraid to intervene and control matters and therefore consider housing as a matter of welfare and not only as a law of the market. Then I want to say that I think it is clear that it has been clear that this government's clear policy is that housing issues since the first day are among those that should go into the process of having a conversation between a labour market party. This was evident in my case as early as the first days of the government, and it has always been done since that time. Many have noted that we are in large agreements that have a huge impact on their outcome and that it is natural to have a conversation with the workforce. If we examine the story, it is also the case with the building blocks and our history that larger steps have often been associated with collective agreements. Based on the results of this campaign group, I think it went very well, and now it has to be continued. Then we need to get the suggestions for the first purchase of the commission directed by Frosti Sigurjónsson. They're due later this month. Then you need to take the discussion about the insurance and the mortgage. These are all the factors that now depend on a conversation between the labour market partners and the government. [[The president calls.]] I'm convinced that we will be able to deal with these big issues, and we will succeed in achieving stability here in housing without joining the European Union and recording the euro. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson. Thank you, too, for your fine discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u48	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for taking good care of this query. It has to do with the discussion that has been going on here and the variety of housing issues. What I wanted to roll up to the highest. A minister is the position on land land land land land land land land land property supply based on a projection of the need for apartments and whether this situation has any impact on the real estate prices. The price of real estate is one of the most important things now, such as in the collective agreements, and the higher the real value, the higher the financial cost, and the more payment rates and so on. This is of utmost importance. That's why I'd like to take two steps through the construction of the project, whether enough land is available for distribution, i.e. whether homes can be built by those who can get property and thus expand housing opportunities. There is, of course, an increased supply that affects the price. However, it is also relevant to the source of the available weights. Are these weights suitable for low-payers and income groups? Are these areas suitable for young people who are coming to the house market? Are these the most demand areas needed? The two things I have suspected could be connected to the real estate price and I'm a bit big. Today, there are new recommendations from a group on the housing issues that are many of the good things that come in part. True, they are the biggest problem in the capital area, but they are also out of the country. So I'd like to compare it together, and I'd like to ask if a minister has any information on this. Is there a visible difference between a wide supply of heat and the types of apartments? And then it comes into the picture that there has to be lands to meet this new reality. There are new values and new needs. People may seek less housing and have a different lifestyle, and new solutions may need to be tested too. You have to offer a dirty offer that you can make testing buildings, testing houses, and so on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u49	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason for recording this case. I think that's where we're at the core of what's turning towards the supply and demand. No matter what we do with the support of the first buyers or the support of tenants or other people, if we do not have enough offers, which in fact corresponds to the demand for the next few years and decades, we see that people are facing problems in a real estate market. This results in a high level of activity and also reduces the incentive for a man to prepare practically. It's just that the market is not as competitive as it is. Multi-aggressive groups assigned to the labour market included Get in there. There have been significant debates over how much was in the pipes and what the demand was. We got along with us in the rural areas in Reykjavík and the capital area and in the areas around Reykjavík to figure out what was there in the pipes. When I talk about nuclear and growing areas, I'm talking about Southnes, Ak Arane, Alphaus, Homger, and possibly after the events around Akureyri. The conclusion is that in the year 2040, the total needs of the living substance in the country range, including the currently unfilled domestic need, at the beginning of 2019, which is estimated to be about 5,000 apartments, is estimated to be between 38,000 apartments and 2040. When we are assessing the need for residence numbers, the economic and economic developments in the development of tourism are of utmost importance as to whether we continue to see comparable trends regarding more immigrants than exported, etc. As we examine the number of apartments in the construction of the capital area, along with the total number of apartments that can be built on potential construction sites where shared planning is either completed or initiated, it is about 25,000 apartments. If the developing environment is included, the total number of apartments is about 39,000, i.e. Lands with developing areas This will take into account the possible construction areas outside the capital area, where at least 6,000 apartments are expected based on the shared and main structure of buildings in rural areas outside the capital area, which gave the campaign audience information on land supply. It should be noted that the rural communities that provided information are Vogar, Smokeytown, Selfus, Akureyri, and Acdine. It may well be said that the answer to the question is clear. The senator is: Yes, to meet the need for an apartment for the year 2040, it seems that in each case, there is a sufficient supply in national construction areas. But with regard to the forward side, as with the need for an apartment, uncertainty about moving and deporting, and this is also linked to the need for any delays in planning. In some cases it is a private country, so there are also uncertainty issues. The bottom line is that considering what's in the pipeline on land and land supply, we should be able to succeed in ensuring stability between supply and demand when it comes to weights. Of course, the discussion of how this land will be organized remains. Will there be smaller apartments or larger apartments? We have another request, which then goes on to other factors. The conclusion is quite clear. If governments and rural groups can work together during these years, up to 2040, we should be able to develop a stability between supply and demand when it comes to the country's growth of rural society.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u50	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for presenting this inquiry and the highest. Minister for answering her here. I'm so glad we're taking this big case and cutting it down a little bit to what's affecting the housing market, and that's, of course, the country's growth. I did not get to the point where I was going to be in the speech earlier, so I'm going to use this opportunity, a respectable president. V.E.G. A minister spoke of the need for a brain committee to see what was in the pipes. We have arranged a group of work to review the real situation on this market. How much pipes is there? It's all part of the Organization, it's got the main organization of all members of the community that says how many apartments can be built in each area. An organization is organized in these areas, which tells us exactly how many containers can be built and of what sizes. These data are available from the government, but it's amazing that we can't press a button today and tell us what's in the schedule, how many buildings have been granted here in the Big Rygavik area in the past few months and what size they're in. [[The president calls.]] I say again, What is it about us when we come to electronic administrations and electronic publication of public data?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u51	Mr. President. I just want to talk it to the highest. Social Affairs - Housekeeping is with him - e.g. Ragnar Þór Ingólfsson, president of VR, went to Sweden during the days and examined so - called wine dragon blocks. Then some sort of wine dragons are built up, and such units are built inside the doorway. These are small and inexpensive apartments. There is also a lot of workforce in Iceland, and these people themselves want to build it, so they would bring their workers and they wouldn't put more workforce in Iceland, so that the labor would be there for that. This is a standard for quality, and it was in Sweden that when it was a problem and had to be built more, they temporarily gave permission to build like this. If the shared organization did not last, the blocks could be removed, moved, and built elsewhere. This can be done five times without loss of weight. This is something you could do, and I want to point this out. There may need to be a change in the law, a change in organizational procedures, or a change in regulations with a minister. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to direct him to this fact. I believe the president of Iceland has also examined these factories.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u52	A respectable president. I thank those who have participated in this inquiry. But the other news is that we may not have enough information about the species of land and when they come for distribution. We need to have a better view of this. It may be sufficient, but at present it is not readily available, and we are not quite sure if it is the missing weight supply. To receive such solutions, such as why. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson came on a short time ago, but this may be possible in order to build an economic home, even if it is temporary. You can also bring up new solutions and build on existing heat supply, which, in a hurry, can offer a convenient home at a convenient level. Or do we just have a donation now based on the need to fill up with a certain amount of construction, a lot of local homes and specials, and a lot of things that may not respond to the immediate need? What about the recent media discussions that have suddenly become too much luxury apartments? Is this progress tailored to future needs? It is one thing to know the number of people, but we can ask about the species of land. They are to be available for the year 2040. First, can I apply for the summer in 2030? ' It does not solve the problem today, so we need to keep this whole thing in mind and get more information.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u53	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. I think it is quite clear that governments will continue to have tools and tools that will somehow be able to maneuver these issues into cooperation with rural society. We've strengthened the situation for that, including Through legalization of rural development programmes to implement housing plans to ensure that adequate housing is being provided in the community, etc. I think it's also very clear that we have to do much better when it comes to collecting information and harmonizing the systems that are running. We're documenting all of this together, but we've been a little behind when it comes to taking advantage of all of this. You find it unusual that in the 21st century, industrial organizations drive around the town, counting the basis for trying to figure out what's in a building when, as it were. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir points out, this is all available in computer systems. Yet, positive things are happening there. You've been developing this building problem now, etc. to take these steps. In the campaign group that has responded to their suggestions, this is one of the points suggested. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson came into houses that are built up and can be removed. At a meeting I had with Sweden's Strategies Minister, I visited such buildings and companies that have been building such a house and then an organization that has been doing so. I was surprised to see how practical and powerful these buildings were, and one suggestion of the campaign group directly points to the setting up of its regulations so that it can be built up in this way and our neighboring countries will be seen in harmony with regulations and laws. [[The president calls.]] There are a lot of things in the pipe, but it is extremely important that we work at harmony, both at the General and in the workforce as the government has established.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u54	A respectable president. We will continue to discuss the housing arrangements, mainly the housing expenses that I think is the most important factor in all of this that is important. That is why I would like to wonder what makes the cost of land seem to vary, which rural societies collect, e.g. cross-cutting fees, weights fees, or just no cross-cutting fees. There seems to be an example of all this. How do such charges affect real - estate prices, and do governments have any information about this? Industrial organizations have claimed that all the expenses that some rural communities seem to contribute to increase real estate prices by up to 30%. That's the fee the locals place on their own costs on the property. I think we can ask ourselves, " Is it over my head that my rural society is doing something beyond the pogroms? ' It's a little strange then, from what I think, since the combined effect on their rural business should be what seems to be most expensive. They tend to collect innuendo fees or stress real estate fees or what they're all paying. I think this can have an effect, as the industrial organization has noted, it's up to 30% of the cost. Then come into this also all the permits charges, applications, sufficiency and so on. I think this, along with the requirements of a surveillance policy and other activities, can have a major impact on real estate prices if these make-believes, which may have little structure in their business, to apply for property and to build suitable housing. This makes it difficult for them to come up with new solutions to build a suitable home. This will also make it difficult for people who want to build their own housing because they have become so difficult, both to meet all the demands on health care providers, construction managers, and so forth, at the same time when people have to have enormous amounts of money before they can begin to build. This, in turn, increases all the financial costs and so on, just to pay expenses to the countryside. I think it's important. This is the cooperation of state and rural society, and I think that's where the communities have to make a big deal of business.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u55	A respectable president. I thank the senator for these inquiries. First, it was asked if the cost of land varies. The simple answer to that request is: Yes, it varies from country to country. The Ministry has not established an overview of this, it is simply a variable difference between rural society how they will cover their borders in terms of cross-cutting costs as well as subsidies or other expenditures. Second, the question was, Which community collects street fees and property fees, only street tax, or neither? Nearly all of our rural communities have a currency and collect it. However, a number of rural areas have recently cut down partial or complete perforation costs, either for all ready weights or parts, in order to initiate building projects. The Ministry does not have an overview of the precise procedure of this between local members. Third, and I'm going to answer that question and then take a general discussion after it, we are asked if such fees will affect real estate prices. The natural answer is very simple too: Official fees normally affect the construction costs of new buildings as they are part of the building cost. High construction costs, e.g. Because of the high public pay, new buildings can also be uninhabitable and thus reduce the production of new buildings on the market. Less supply for this reason can then affect real estate prices. Similarly, the cost of building directly affects the price of houses on the hands of a builder who sells apartments at cost prices. You can, for example, do so. Consider a builder who does not work for profit. It has been said that a construction organization operates in the general housing system belonging to the National Association of Iceland and BSRB. We'll probably start seeing apartments come to rent from this partner in various rural areas in the capital area and in a country where rent prices will be very variable. It is a business that does not operate for financial gain, so it is not because it is paying any profit from one building above another. Simply reflects the cost of rent in the building. For high reimbursement, as is customary in some rural areas, or higher tax costs, this will become very clear. I'll be surprised if this isn't a media coverage when it starts to come up better. However, it is quite clear that the expenditures vary with rural society and that is what will have these effects and already have these effects. There is no agreement, neither in form nor in the amount of this pay between rural society. Each member of the community is self-employed as to how he or she behaves. It is quite clear, however, that in my mind, a conversation between state and rural society should take place on some form of coordination and also on the basis of the contribution of rural areas to their adverse social health problems. What I want to say finally to frame this in is that we do not have an accurate overview of how this is done in every rural society around the country, but it is quite clear that the rural communities that charge higher fees for infrastructure or property or other reasons in this way are because they have to build up schools, etc. - It can go nowhere but into the real estate prices, and as a result, it can't go anywhere but to rent prices. I think the answers to this are quite clear, but there is reason to take up a discussion about this and perhaps direct it to the whole level of government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u56	A respectable president. I thank you again for this inquiry and discussion here, and I feel compelled to share with you that I went for a group of employees who finished working last year on the street and how they did it and what the local community's opinion was about the cost of street making. The reason for this group being set up was especially of interest to see if it was not reasonable to consider that any new construction fees were collected, regardless of whether they lived in urban areas or rural areas. Today, the law allows rural society to collect only pricing fees for urban buildings. That means if a person's building on an area defined as a rural area, he doesn't pay for the community. The tax will be taxed today and will be paid for by general revenues to the rural population, e.g. to prepare for road construction. I'm going to imagine that if you live in a rural area, you're going to spend as much of your country's road as you are in the urban population. I believe that this is not fair, although I have not received support from the United States Society in my opinion. [[The president calls.]] I want to say a lot more about this, and this is all too short.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u57	Unfortunately, there is no more time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u58	Mr. President. I examined something at the time if it would be possible to build a cell house and so on. I looked at an offer on the property somewhere near the capital area, even up to the Mosfellhik if we were to look at it and maybe invest in a car that could get through the snow. I took a good look at it. I also spoke to the Ministry, and it wanted to mean that 26 m2 apartments can be built and legally carried out by all regulations. In this study, I learned that most of the things involved were paying attention to the cost of three things. It is the natural property and all the other costs the government pays. Then it's building up, and then I looked at it. You can totally minimize it with some kind of container. Then there's the financial cost, the financial cost to pay for all of this. There are all kinds of solutions. Ragnar Þór Ingólfsson and including Helgi in Gou have called for the pension fund to come up with. Then the budget can be lowered. There is something that could be done by a change of law. [[The president calls.]] They mean that it is possible to do according to the law, and that may only require a rule change. Much more is involved in financing, since they may have much lower financial expenses because they have long - term commitments to their funds. [[The president calls.]] This would be one solution that could be considered immediately. I don't think it'll be examined, but it would be interesting to hear from a minister whether he's considered it or not and if there'll be a further examination of his work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u59	A respectable president. Thank you for this great discussion and the highest. Minister for clear answers. I think this is one of the biggest things we need to look at in our housing issues to deal with this housing problem. I think the cost of stock is enormously high, the property and the rent around it are affecting both prices and costs. The government has done much that they can do by canceling credit charges and the building order has been made available by new solutions so that larger facilities can be built. It's all been tried out, but while the right areas are not available for low prices, it's very difficult to increase the supply of apartments. The banks are making most of the money. We see in the ground that it is the expense, the property, and the expenses, as well as the construction costs itself and the construction companies. If we increase property to the dictators with less stress than the big construction companies or easier people to build their own housing, we can directly affect both the stock costs and the cost, which are then the burden and the money costs. There, I think there's a lot to do and that this is the big project ahead of us in housing to improve the country's interest in the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u60	A respectable president. I like what you're doing. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, who took up this discussion, thank her very much. As soon as I say I agree with the senator that it is important that the start cost, before you begin building a house, is as important as the lowest of these expenses. At the same time, I would like to tell the senator, as soon as I agree with him on this matter, that it is also extremely important that we, as governments, be prepared to run this market in a certain way. We must not allow him to be completely free because of too much supply, as it is now, of large and expensive apartments that I don't think are only not selling because the cost of starting is so high, it's also because it's not a market for such large and expensive apartments in the ground, even if we can cut down the cost of living at first. To those on the other wing who say it's all about strengthening better for the tenants, the first buyers and others, I'd like to say we're not going to be successful there unless we can guarantee enough property supply as well. These two actions must be played together, and the joy of the suggestion of the campaign group is that I think they will do it well. I don't have much time left, but as far as I'm concerned. A senator came in on a pension fund, to learn more about building real estate, is, of course, one of the first purchases that people can use pensions in some way, and that is, of course, a procedure in that reality. But I've studied what part of the trade union has already proposed on the use and construction of the tenet and therefore, in a report of the campaign group, it is directed into a conversation between the labour market parties because it is really their case, not their government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u61	Mr. President. I have asked the secretary for the amount of reimbursement due to the purchase of needed glasses for the health care professionals according to Regulation No. 155/2005, asking if he intends to revise them. I also ask him if a minister intends to reimburse the arrangements for the reimbursement so that a certain percentage of the prices will be replaced by a fixed dollar. Three times I've provided a bill for a change in the law on reimbursement because of the glass business of children. There I have been looking for especially the youngest children to enjoy wearing glasses without much cost, i.e. those who need them as medical treatment. It's a small group of children. Their eyes or vision do not develop properly unless they wear glasses, which are often expensive. They need such glasses in order to gain normal vision, to be said that they are not just a means of helping but simply necessary. We're talking about a very small group between four and eight years of age. We know what children wear when they wear glasses that things can happen. Although even soft - eyed and all of this may be damaged, they are often damaged, and eyeglasses are also in young children. But here I am asking a little more of the highest. A minister of this -- of course, it is absolutely unacceptable, if we think about it, that since 2005 the Regulation has not been updated, i.e. The reimbursement. I hope the Minister can see how to repay this. In connection with the regulations of the Regulation, I received an answer from a minister some time ago, prefect of the Supreme Court. current minister, that this has been discussed among the staff of the Service and Knowledge Centre, who work for the blind, visually impaired, and deaf-blind persons at the Ministry, where changes in child - care professionals have also been discussed. There are about 80% of the parents or guardians who receive reimbursement at 7,000 dollars. That's all. Which, naturally, is a little bit small. A woman interviewed about a year and a half ago, who had a young boy, agreed that she had spent a million in glasses in a relatively short time. I'm asking the highest. An additional minister, since it was spoken of in the answer given to me, this group's position should be considered in terms of an increase in pay and according to what is stated in the reply, this work was to be carried out in the Ministry. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to add the question to if that job started.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u62	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir To begin with, Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for the inquiry, I wanted to say that when I began to look at it, it was very interesting to consider. As the senator points out, the bill has been submitted three times at the General Assembly for a change. In 2005, as the senator pointed out in his inquiry, the directive was given to children in particular, but there are exceptions to adults. In 2005, certain amounts of money were used and have not been updated since. Usually, we apply for reimbursement to some 4,000 people a year in this pot, let's say. Since that time, peaks have not been raised and regularly comment on the low percentage of parent - child glass purchases. And natural, because the senator has closely followed this matter to more than one minister. However, for the first time that the senator follows these points to this sitting minister, I ask the senator to consider the answers in that light. It is up to you to review Regulation No. 233/2010 of the distribution of helpers by the Service and Contact Centres for Blind, Visual impairment, and Integrated Hearing Failure. My schedule has been set so that at the end of that work, it would be reviewed and reviewed by 2005, this regulations, that the State's involvement in the cost of eyeglasses would be reviewed. However, as the senator came in, it is only right for users to be given glasses and other means of help without cost. I'd like to say, though, that this is the kind of work that's been going on and I want to add it here that I think there's a reason to speed up that work whenever possible. I will use it in the weeks and months that it will be done and that we will look for ways to meet the children involved in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u63	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for the answers. I have to say, it's certainly the first time we have a word-off on this subject, but that's the way it is, and it may be that, in the reply I received at the time, it is stated that formal work in the revision has not been done, but it says, by President's permission: The 2016 Service and Knowledge Centre aims on review of the status of those in need of more expensive eyeglasses, and it is expected that the requirements of the above regulations will be reviewed and the centre will request the attention of paediatric physicians and other best informed ones. The Ministry expects the results of this work to be no later than at the end of its first quarter, 2016.◯ To be honest, I assumed that we had moved further into that work, and I was impressed. Ministers to start a financial programme now that it will be expected - I prefer to see that the Regulation will be clearly updated to today and if it is not possible to include it in a way that it will take normal climate change. It's special that things like that don't. But that it may come in, whether by reason of what I have been to swerve in my case or by what I have put here three times, that the groups may be enlarged and expanded. I realize it's gonna cost a lot of money, but I would have wanted to see it if it wasn't for two. On the one hand, that the Regulation was updated and that it would appear in a financial programme and that the youngest group needed in this matter would also be included when discussing a financial agenda. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u64	A respectable president. Yes, I just want to say that I take the senator's encouragement seriously, and I will take this case up and try to speed it up as soon as possible. The Senator has had to press after this for way too long. Of course, there is a sensitive group of children on the road, and they rhyme completely with the emphasis and importance of early intervention so that they can have the best youth and best opportunity to pursue their own lives. So I want to say that I take this encouragement from this discussion and thank you. A senator for recording the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u65	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Environment Minister for coming here and being answered when asking a small question. It's the garbage business. This is a moving and burdensome group for rural society and for all of us, the problem, the issues that are growing in the climate, the environment - and soon we are talking about global warming. These aspects are intertwined, and consciousness is increasing over the great problems facing mankind. Some feel that the hope to reverse this trend is bleak. But we'll hold on to it. Is it somewhere that we must begin, and is it not proper for us to consider how we do things in our own life, that we care for and care for our own gardens with responsibility? I allow myself to assert, Mr. President, that in all the homes of the country, garbage is divided in one way or another, varyingly, and there are examples of admirable performances. This interest is not a question of rank or rank or age. At the film schools, I find that young students do an admirable job in training young students, and I know from experience that young children are very conscious of this. And adults are interested in sharing in this work. In some way, the garbage causes some kind of sympathy. The village unites. Indeed, garbage is a social project. Some rural areas have advanced in this respect and have taken a very firm course. But much more is needed. The whole world needs to take over. The project is huge. The government has introduced an action plan on climate and we are going to ban plastic, plastic bags use, at least. All of this is good and blessed, but we are on the threshold of a changed time. We need to get involved. It is the mental attitude that counts and that then words follow action. I'll give you five questions for the highest level. Minister. First, do ministers believe that municipal waste is acceptable? Second: Which rural society is classified as garbage? And third: Which rural society is offered for soft waste disposal or for the disposal of organic waste? Because there's a problem, and in my community it's a problem, for example. I don't want it to be available, which I would like to be because it needs to be available for the average intermediate. [[The president calls.]] Fourth, how will a minister promote a better category of garbage? And fifth: How will Ministers promote public education on the importance of garbage companies?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u66	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón of the Brjánsson Brunnsson for the inquiry. It is important to discuss the general category of waste and, indeed, waste matter, and to welcome this discussion in particular. One of my priorities as a minister is to cope with consumption and waste. Our current resource use is self-sufficient in many ways, and it is very important to deal with the environmental and climate impacts of modern consumption. The wastes are closely connected with this, and the question is, What will we do with all the wastes, the channel we make for it - and the most important: How will we reduce the original generation of waste? In accordance with waste management legislation, it is a rural government that decides the collection of household and business waste in each rural society. Thus, it is up to each government to state the individual and legality of waste. The route is different and often much inconsistencies between local wastes. Some rural societies are far along with the classifications and others are not. Overall, in my opinion, the country's classification is not acceptable to the eyes, although many rural societies are excellent and some have been doing so for many years. However, there is no doubt that there is much more to be done - both in the type of waste and in its other treatments. In terms of what rural waste is classified, the EEA does not have a summary of the rural classification systems and does not have information on the extent of the category sent by the rural community. It lies, for example. does not provide an overview of the rural areas that provide moltmaking, which is one of the factors in question. A senator asked about. In terms of the disposal of organic waste, it can be said that all rural areas have some kind of organic waste, since it is a legal obligation for every rural society to have a course for the waste that falls within it. On the other hand, whether this route will begin with people's homes or other areas of the countryside is very different. Clearly, this makes it difficult to sort people out organic wastes, such as at the turn of the day. The senator came in earlier. In fact, while we became organic waste, as the situation is too extensive, we are throwing away valuables and, often, increasing the negative impact on climates because of estimating from emergency sites. A great deal of good work is being done at the European Union's scene to deal with this precisely, to help improve resource efficiency, and to stop throwing away much of the valuables we do. The so - called cycle economy is going on, with the goal of reducing waste, increasing recycling, and recycling as long as valuables are maintained within the circle. At the same time, the impacts on the environment and greenhouse gas emissions are reduced. The EU's budget for the recycling economy will be implemented in this country through the EEA Convention and it will be expected to submit a bill for the next fall to the implementation of the directive. It is known that by means of induction, there will be an increase in the number of categories. For example, there will be a requirement for specific collection of organic wastes in 2020, and in 2025 there will be a special collection in textil waste and waste materials. The minimum category of wastes and buildings will also be required. The EEA is now working to review the Minister's policy on the management of waste, which will integrate these laws on the menstrual economy. There will be clear measurable targets for the next 12 years and specific measures associated with them. These factors will contribute to the better waste category in Iceland. It is the opinion of the above that it is important to establish the law of local partners and business partners to classify waste. It is also important that waste is properly organized on national and public level, thus making the project even more easier. One of the suggestions given to me from a meeting point on a plastic operation plan was just that. In addition, governments have considered laying taxation and the prohibition on organic wastes. Such controls can provide much for better management of waste valuables and resources as well as important climate issues. I agree that it is important to promote education to the public, both about the need to reduce consumption and waste as well as the need to sort out what is created so that the raw materials of what we call waste can be used best - because I repeat that they are valuable. The Ministry has strengthened such projects, such as the study material, by means of waste prevention, as well as by supporting subterranean activities in the area of waste. These include a conscious wake - up on the use of clothing. At that time, both the General and the Ministry for 20 years have supported the green-finishing project Landguards, which include: Works for waste in about 200 basic and high school schools in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u67	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion, which is important. Indeed, the classification is very important and has gone on very increasing, fortunately. This reduces waste volumes. On the other hand, I am very concerned that the waste of the country's consumers or homes and the businesses usually return to the ground, if I know correctly, in two directions: He's either ruined or moved abroad. Both are not very environmental. I have, for example. Excessive concern that groundwater effects are not well maintained, i.e. impact on groundwater at high prices, except for what happened earlier in the case of methane release. I'd like to know if the Minister has any idea to do the assessment of e.g. increased waste management in Iceland. It has not been so long ago that I shut down two, three pieces of garbage that I quickly remember that did not meet the demands of time. The question is, Do we not have the technology now to be able to, for example? in cold areas, waste was converted to heat and value.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u68	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for raising an issue on this subject and the highest. Minister for the answers. I'll agree with the highest. Minister, I think waste matter is a very important group, and we should discuss this group more frequently here in this hall. But I would like to contribute for some time - in view of the importance of having uniform methods, that we meet our criteria in climate and some sense of reason, is how we work with the waste in this relatively large country, and yet few - whether it's just not time to consider that state's taking over, not just by setting rules and laws on rural societies, but simply taking this order over and then leaving the local communities behind to care for closer services, such as making issues of the elderly or something of that sort. Because all too often we see in this series that it's not in my backyard. There's an argument about where there's mud, where to burn, how to do it. And I think if we looked at the whole country, we'd be getting much more results on waste.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u69	Mr. President. Thank you. the prime minister for this statement in this discussion, and the Minister for the answers. I think it's very good. I'm going to agree with the last speaker, I think this is a case that is sadly broken in many places. We look forward to many challenges at the beginning of a new year, one of those that would be good to weigh and sort. There's way too much waste going on in so many ways. We saw in the last February of Visa a news report that the London School of Akureyri, with nearly 500 students, reduced food waste by nearly 50 pounds [50 kg] a day. That's no small thing. It was not only teaching students how to buy food, supplies, and so forth. I've had these ideas, because what's happening to our purses is very important, not only in our own communities, but in the long run, when you take the trash, that you can weigh from each house, so that you really pay for the waste you have to grow or burn. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u70	V.E.G. President. Thank you for the leader of this important inquiry and minister for the best answers. It has been observed that a great spiritual awakening has taken place, and these matters have changed. As I know the best way, on the use of weapons, people set up an assembly at the 2010/2011 waste level. People took their Christmas holiday to get used to that idea and how the arrangement should be involved. It is best to tell you that your household waste will be reduced by about 60%. Thus, what each person does is extremely important. But then we find out what's waste and waste, it's not always the same thing. We do not always view it the same way. It's good for you to know who's taking care of the wastes, e.g. It's a garden, but then we're talking about much more. You may not feel that garden waste is against all the rolls and hay - rolls. In fact, it is suggested for the council to use the gaps'expirys for land healing, so there are a number of ways and no one can go over this in one minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u71	A respectable president. Thank you for the discussion and excellent answers to the top. Minister. It certainly arouses a little bit of thought and wonder that there is no better perspective on this environmental group, as important and moving it is and as much in the discussion as it is. The trigger for my inquiry is my own experience and my bardus to classify at home. I have a strong feeling that the public is ready to participate in this project, that is an ideal project for the public to join them. But I keep pushing myself to it when I'm sorting that I'm not sure which bucket to put this or that. In particular, I would have chosen an access to molt, or some organic waste station, within a manageable distance. I am of the generation in which I have experienced waste management as one of the commonplace and routine activities of the community and not much of it. The garbage truck came and went and didn't say anything about it any more. He drove something outside of town and flushed the trash, and they burned it for a long time. Then they began to grow. But now times have changed. In fact, garbage and waste are a huge business around which there are enormous amounts of money and is now a source of goods and, at times, an upbuilding source of exports. But it's not always. I'm asking the secretary if there are plans to increase the discussion and to contribute to the wake-up, to join the public on an even greater scale.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u72	A respectable president. I want to thank you again. A senator very much for his inquiry. I think all this waste discussion needs to focus on that in the first, second, and third, we need to reduce the production of waste. It comes on both producers and sellers of goods and then on to us consumers. This is the key. It's about to start working within my Ministry right now in the next few weeks while looking at the entire waste matter in my country. Many of the factors that were presented have to be taken into account, and that is why I especially welcome the discussion. I'll get a certain lunch or feeding to work out after this discussion. I agree that one of the basic elements of the matter was at the moment. The starter is the bioavailability; disposal of waste must be readily available. This was also my opinion of the price or the exporting of wastes abroad. Environmentalists tell us that the prices are so last, but recycling, whether carried abroad or not, and therefore burning them, is better. I think the analysis of the increase in local waste management is something that needs to be considered now when we go to this job at the Ministry and agree with it. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir says that we need to take special note of the pollution - repair policy she mentioned: The city that pollutes. I don't think the idea that was mentioned earlier sounds bad. Then perhaps it is fundamental. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir mentioned earlier, whether the State should just take over this suit. It's interesting in the discussion. The least I think is that it's going to have to be more consistent with the way we do things in this country. Thank you again so much for this fine discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u73	Mr. President. For example, if not all of us, at least out loud, and many of us personally experience a disease of childhood origin, it is undoubtedly a disease we are familiar with. A mild disease is usually involved, but it is known that in exceptional circumstances it can still become a serious disease. We know from our health environment that here Iceland is vaccinated with several other so - called childhood diseases, so we're getting used to it. However, despite the presence of a vaccine according to the national land-of-the-counter web site, vaccination against varicella is both very effective and safe, vaccination against varicella does not depend on general childhood vaccinations in the country. However, the vaccine can be prescribed and paid for, and can only be found at the price of the vaccine due to a will. I looked it up and found it. According to the budget for 2019, I thought the dose cost about 5,600 bucks. As I get closer, in recent years there has been an increase in growth that parents choose to have their children vaccinated against varicella. But I feel that this issue raises some questions about the arrangement we want to have around our baby surveillance and vaccinations. So I would like to direct that question to the highest level. HCP whether to initiate vaccination of infants against varicella. I trust it to the highest. Ministers respond a little further than yes or no, and I would also like to reflect on the cost of making a varicella vaccination, in part, of a general infant series in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] In the second question, I would like to have a little more discussion about these injections.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the questions. It has addressed to me a verbal request for the immunisation of infants from two joints and asks their previous question whether it is scheduled to start a general course of varicella vaccination in infants. Vaccination is a immunisation intended to prevent severe infectious disease. These are primary prophylaxis and vaccinations as the most effective means of dealing with infectious diseases. The objective of immunisation is to prevent epidemics, eliminate infectious diseases, and reduce the harmful consequences of vaccination. Vaccinations have been generally used in this country for many decades, and participation in them is relatively high, particularly in children's vaccinations. This is very important, since epidemics cannot be controlled unless the majority of people are vaccinated. Varicella is a highly infectious disease and is the most common in children. Most cases of mild disease have occurred, but in rare cases, varicella may develop into a serious illness, i.e. if the virus spreads to various organs and causes damage. Following varicella infection, the virus infects the nerves in the body and lies hidden there. In time, she can pick up and cause a so - called colon. A vaccine has been marketed in Iceland for several years, but a decision has not yet been made on the general use of the vaccine in infant shots. Many countries have introduced generalised varicella vaccinations in children. The greatest experience of vaccination has been obtained since the United States, where general vaccinations started in children in 1996. Disease prevention has been aimed at preventing transmission of infectious diseases by the health authorities. The CDC discussed the matter at a meeting on December 4, i.e. This exact case, and suggest that the introduction of general vaccination against varicella in Iceland's children as well as a special counseling group for vaccination at their 21st December meeting. Following these meetings, i.e. the disease prevention system and then this specialised counselling group suggest that the general vaccination against varicella in children in Iceland should be initiated by the treating physician in accordance with vaccination regulations, No. 221/2001, which is therefore absolutely recently requested by the Ministry of Health according to this indication. Hv. A senator asks: What would be the cost of making a varicella vaccine part of the general infant series here in Iceland? In answer to this today, organized immunizations of children who have a legal home in Iceland are free of charge. At that time, healthy individuals who have not had VZV may receive vaccination at their own expense. The benefit of immunisation against varicella is high. National research has shown that vaccination results in social saving mainly due to a decrease in parental distance from work, but also to a decrease in severe illness and colon depression in adults. Similarly, the cost of economic care in Iceland has shown that the vaccination would be expected to be practical in this country. Based on the market price for varicella vaccine in January 2018, the annual rate of vaccinations one year of birth may be about 40 million without respect for extra taxation, but the full vaccination course consists of two injections. However, a more favourable post-improvement situation may be expected, as normal with a vaccine in general vaccinations. A respectable president. I hope these are satisfying answers to questions. A senator, i.e. On the one hand, there is a positive request by a psychiatrist in the Ministry, and the market price for the vaccine is about 40 million, but the cost may be expected to be lower after the discharge.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u75	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister for the answer and would like to begin by saying that the matter is on schedule and that it is a positive consideration in the Ministry. Although the disease may be very common, if not most people get through safely, it is not always because the disease can become very serious in children. And even further, I think, without being medically educated, if it is infected by adults. I like the fact that there are calculations already on how much it might cost society to record this, and even more, to expect the cost to the community as a whole to take up a varicella vaccine. Of course, parents'loss of work is first in there, but to me it is also about child control and their position when it comes to preventing disease. I believe that by accepting general immunizations, parents will be less important, as well as the position of parents'knowledge of possible risks of the disease, so this is always part of an economic situation. [[The president calls.]] But this is also just a patient political and child - rights thing, and I'm going back to celebrate that there's a positive view in the Ministry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u76	A respectable president. I would like to mention some of the factors that I stopped here in my previous talk, but it is the fact that the risk of colonism substantially increases with increasing age, which is estimated that about 20% of all people will have herpes zoster at some point in their lives and some more than once. However, reliable epidemiological figures, both varicella and shingles, are rarely available because these diseases are not, or generally not, reported. Although varicella is generally considered a mild disease, and this may be what we are primarily talking about here, it is clear that it can be serious, especially in adults and individuals who are immunocompromised. The serious consequences of varicella are which may be bacterial infections of the skin and of the lung and the inflammation of the brain caused by the virus and usually occur in people with underlying conditions. We also see serious consequences of herpes zoster in elderly subjects, neuralgia followed by more than 30% of individuals developing zoster. Other more serious consequences also exist. So it is clear and no doubt that this type of operation, vaccination of infants against varicella, would be a positive operation for far more than young children and their families and would have positive health benefits in a much wider sense. But I want to finally take this opportunity to agree. A senator here says that the key is to increase child equality and that people and especially children have better and clearer access to good health regardless of the economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u77	Mr. President. I've asked you a question to the highest level. The secretary of health to see if the minister agrees with me that speech health should be public health and what we can do to promote good voice health as part of such a course. This is because noise is defined as undesirable or harmful, and it is regarded as one of today's major health problems. Although we are not talking about the death of a noise, it can have a profound effect on our health and quality of life, depending on its nature, frequency range, and strength. It has been and is so that the number of people with their entire security depends on their voices not failing, such as. Teachers, priests, psychologists, doctors, reporters, salesmen, and members of Congress. But so far the voice has not been recognized as a professional instrument and is therefore not protected. I'm going to be a good teacher because there's been a considerable study. High - school statistics, gymnasiums, and swimming halls in this country show that these places often do not meet ultrasound requirements, as well as average audio levels that are often above the risk limits of some 80 to 85 decibels. Studies also show that a good part of a teacher suffers from a variety of stress symptoms on his voice, and they are also most likely to seek medical attention because of voice problems and related discomfort. Teachers'voice problems are known worldwide. In fact, it is talked about teaching a lack of knowledge in the voice and organography of the voice. In fact, teachers have lost their jobs because the work has gone ahead of their voice instruments. I know an example from my school that a teacher had to take a vacation. In Akureyri City, judgment fell for a sports teacher who may have to be considered a turning point and an exampler, since that is how he can be viewed by talking about his voice as a professional instrument. But I just want to quote a meeting with the European Union, where many people came and even came to see me. The surgeon general who spoke of noise and sound in school becoming one of the focus factors for health care and attention on how to bring this into focus on both preschool and preschool. There we need to consider, too - and this may work for many stewards - that measures such as this are basically determined by staff rather than by children, as the work department does. The same meeting also showed that there is insufficient criticism between workaholics and health committees. A respectable president. Voice bait is a tool to reach the listener, and I think it is time to assess the value of voice when it is directly rented out for employment. [[The president calls.]] Because what if the teacher's voice doesn't sound and doesn't interest him? What if a senator talks without conviction in his voice, so that's all I'm saying.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u78	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's request for voice health. Hv. A senator sent me questions for this discussion and asked specifically about the interaction between voice health and public health. It is to answer from a formal side of the matter that Iceland's public health policy was presented in 2016. It presents a fairly broad trend for various aspects of society, including some of which are still part of the community. published the vision that schools, workplaces, institutions, etc. If you are in good health and work at increasing exercise and outdoor activity, as is said, improve your diet and improve your country's mental status, which leads to better health and well - being. Then health issues should be the key factor in all policy activities that contribute to the promotion of health ideologies in all policies. In this public health policy, it is not directly addressed about voice health, but it is, as noted in the inquiry of a man. The senator, that the surgeon's office has considered whether to provide special sound and sound attention on a project on health issues of the field of play, basal and high school. After the office's opinion of the educational material that has been published in this country and the schools already support themselves, there was no reason to give any further instructions than what already exists. On the other hand, I share their speculations with a bang. A senator's concern is that we are even more alert to such factors. A bad voice at staff who perform a job that requires great use of voice is something that needs to be viewed seriously. It can often be attributed to poor sound care or poor sounding, pollution or other unfortunate environmental factors. In the office of the Environment Minister, I stressed that there would be a special chapter written in a building order for sound care, but such a chapter was not in a previous building principle, perhaps primarily to cover school activities and training. It is a known fact that it is especially teaching and training environment, since these factors are challenging and I especially want to mention an extra load on art and engineering teachers, sports teachers, and music teachers. These are teachers who are often teaching rolling groups all day long, new and new groups constantly, and even though they sometimes have fewer teaching duties than others, this is a very special additional burden that is known, and these groups are particularly concerned. The surgeon general has emphasized all factors potentially affecting health and the reasons for the need to use the voice in a way that damages the vocal cords and damages the health of the people. It will not be overlooked. In view of that - and only because of this context and its consequences - it is important to provide special attention to sound, that it is part of our awareness in all our everyday surroundings, and especially for those who base their work on the use of our voice. We know what different circumstances there are to reach a group, whether in a small room or in a large meeting or in a large room. It depends often on the sound and on how the echoing of the voice is in each area, etc. I would also especially like to mention the fact that a huge part of every community's population is dealing with some kind of hearing impairment, so I need to take into consideration the particular aspect of those who do not have the first - matter, and then to be more careful that speaking matters can be done better, that is not a fragile message that can pass through. When it comes to public health, it is important to consider all these factors and work at creating a healthy environment, including those factors that affect people's voices.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u79	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. When you wonder if this is a public health problem, i.e. I think it is, and I think that there is reason to wonder and see if we can take this in or how it could be possible. I think the court says it's an recognition of the voice as a professional device. But I agree with what. Ministers that there are many, and many brochures, as well as some educational material and such. As it correctly came on, construction regulations for the construction of buildings have changed, larger rooms, larger classrooms, larger study groups, and so forth. It's changed. Valdís Jónsdóttir's daughter, who is a speech pathologist and vocalist, has done a lot of work on this and has done so. A doctor's project that examined the use of the amplitude system in the teaching environment. The results were striking, since not only did most of the children and young people hear what the teachers were saying but they greatly reduced the voice fatigue of the teachers. A person knows that he worked in a classroom where the only standard was an ear on a wall that would turn red if too loud, and it was constantly red. There is one thing that could be used to improve the quality of the environment, but that is not always sufficient. I also have an inquiry to the Minister of Education on this aspect of the case. I agree with a minister and am pleased with the answers in my own self. But I think we should be very alert to this and to many of our occupations. It is not good if we start to lose people from teaching, not just because of coldness, but because of tired voices. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-04-61.u80	A respectable president. I've been lucky to meet Dr. Valdís Jónsdóttir and discuss these matters. It is a natural developer in this field who has kept these issues on schedule, i.e. Your voice level. I think it is important that all of us who have access to the knowledge found there maintain it, so that our voice - health programs are on schedule, such as other health. And the conditions that the voice has prepared are on the agenda, as are other conditions for public health. I believe that's very important. I'd like to agree with that, too. A candidate noted: In some ways, changing the way of teaching causes stress or can put an even greater challenge on both sound and vocalization, and especially when we are discussing larger classrooms, parallels, or even the field of teaching that the traditional classrooms we most know are not really part of the daily life of the students. Such pressures are added in a teaching environment, where students who need special support and the training that is appropriate for all and who are given strength will also need to be taken care of. But I've also seen - and I'd like to mention there specifically an Ingaln School, a school that put a lot of emphasis on the sound space right away at the basic design and the development of the school building. It is a direct experience to enter open space and experience very good sound rooms where people can talk with ordinary vocalization but are very successful. This combination of sound care and respect for our voice, I think, is what needs to be done in such an environment and in other places where our voice really matters. [[The president calls.]]
