ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u1	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for review. I have one question to the highest. Minister in this matter, how the matter deals with a particular company, HS Power. That company is partly private property. Among the owners are those who have spoken of subterranean cables and have moved their energy out of the country. How does it look to a company like HD Energy, who has all the power to produce energy from an Icelandic source and then transfer it from a country through a cable? I don't know exactly how this case is involved. But there might be a situation where the company wants it. Then it would be good to have a minister's opinion and to explain whether this would interest such a plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u2	Mr. President. HS Orcs has been on their own for a decade, but I understand that the owner of this enterprise is no longer the owner of that company. The only legal customers of Landsnet are the dispersal hosts and, on the other hand, the industry, so it's one of the legislation that we would especially need to change if we were to land a sea cable. But if any company, such as. A private property company, would be interested in putting down a seaband, that's what we can say, if that's what we want, simply saying no. We can also take that into consideration. We can go to such assessments, economics, environmental, social assessments, whether they are good ideas or not. It would then go to the Landsnet System Plan if we agreed to do so. But we can also simply say that we are not going to lay a cable, our estimates are that this is not a good idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u3	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I didn't think that was clear enough. In this case, HS Power, this is a powerful company and it has even. appear both in speech and in writing that they have the full capacity to produce and sell energy through sea cables. The enterprise is now geographically in place, so line layers that the estimated sea cable are very small distances, so it should not be a priority. Is it possible for governments to prevent these things from being done by private companies? It'd be nice to get it out. Are we not putting together an entire market in electrical energy? This needs to be answered, and it would be good to have meaningful answers in this regard. Is it not possible that the decision to deny that company will be called upon and taken as we might lose that issue? How, then, do we view ourselves? If a minister could explain this in a simple way, it would be appreciated.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u4	Mr. President. The question is, What can we say? The answer is: We can say no. That is hardly so much clearer than it is. When it's asked, "Can we say no?" The answer is: Yes, we can. All our opinions of the most skilled experts agree absolutely that it is in our custody whether or not we put a cable here. The situation is in that respect, just as in Norway.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u5	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister of the presentation earlier. We continue to discuss what has been discussed for two days, induction of a pack of three energy. The European Union's energy legislation is determined by circumstances that are quite different from those in this country, as we know. Unlike the largest member countries in the EU, Iceland is rich in clean renewable energy. As is common in EU countries, we burn our houses with ecology rather than with oil and gas. Electricity is less expensive in this country than in most European countries. We cannot be sure that the EU will set rules appropriate for our situation. It's just that way. If the energy law is introduced in Iceland, there will be an increased risk of sea cables. The Swedish string for Iceland is already a list of EU national priorities. Although the government has requested that the so - called IceLink go out of a list, it is only one of many sources and the EU makes its final decision. This list is revised every two years, and the cord can return, even if removed. ACER will decide if all sea cable applications are approved for Iceland. Neither the Icelandic government nor the General will be able to resist such a project. Therefore, The legal experts, who have often discussed this morning, Friðrik that Hirst Council of State Már Stefánsson 19, according to Regulation 713, was incompatible with the Constitution of Iceland. V.E.G. A minister earlier said that we could say no, and we could also say no to the two most important types discussed yesterday and today, 713 and 714 since 2009. We can say no because we are concerned about human rulers. Whether there is a power room or not, and while there is a doubt in the matter, we are under obligation, first of all, to examine carefully the evidence presented, and to interpret the question of Iceland's constitution. That must be true of us. V.E.G. President. In the case of speakers, it has been said that the so - called models can have consequences for the Icelandic government. They may be the result of an ESA's appeal to a contract violation against Iceland, where the directive is not justified because of the prevention. This is a serious matter to me and to be one of the reasons why we, the Allied Parliament and the government of Iceland, should say no to an energy pack of three and/or put it together to discuss it, since these actions will not be valid unless the cable comes along. Then you ask yourself, " Why don't we take the time to work better if they have no legal significance until a cable is laid? ' V.E.G. President. I believe that many senators today expressed their view that they want to be careful about this matter, and I think it's important that we do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u6	Mr. President. The custody that turns to decisions about cables is entirely the basis for the Icelanders. We have never in all this process been giving away the power to which decisions are involved. For this PCI list, where it is expected in the literature that it will be checked in 2027, it is a Landsnet application in 2015 that put us on that list, that did not come from anywhere else. Why do humans not want them in the right place? It was Landsnet who wanted it for 2015. It's not like the big, bad outlets in the world are in line for an application to connect here with a sea cable. This is and has been and will become our custody. This third energy directive has only been about infrastructure across borders. It has not been about energy transport, how we're doing it, how we're doing it, new infrastructures or other infrastructures, but just now, and also not about some person out in the big world who can order us for how we produce energy, and how we build up the intensifications and other factors in this context. I think it is clear that the discussion has been made, and it has been pointed out to the parties, our most skilled men in this area, their reviews and opinions, that all of this is done correctly in this way, as mentioned above, i.e. what's being suggested. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u7	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the questions. In my language, I did not discuss that the Icelanders give up a decision. As the synopsis presented above shows, the International Parliament of Iceland is the final authority in whether or not a sea cable will be laid. I'm concerned about the exercise of power, a possible executive, which is evident in the types that have been referred to here, but not because Icelanders cannot decide that it is in their power to make decisions about sea cables. I'm not worried about that. Whatever it is. A senator mentioned the application from Landsnet, all that was presented in my speech in spite of that, that it is possible for the EU to take out and install a list, and we know that the interest of many is from a reliable source of this green, desirable energy. The most important thing to me is that we Iceland itself control our energy resources, not giving up our power, as these types seem to indicate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u8	Mr. President. It is only Land activation and Landsnet that can wish to enter this list, the so-called PCI list. It is in the hands of us Icelanders, in this case of this institution here, the Generals, to agree that this is done. The data of this case, in the opinion of groups that have been identified, e.g. Skúli Magnússon is a scene on the page. 39 in the analysis phase, which says, by permission of the president: It is noted that the terms of the third energy package and the sources 7, 8, and 9. Regulation No. 713/2009, take in no way to determine the link between electricity transfers to other countries, such as the fixation of a cable. The sources of resource use, e.g. The continuum transfunctioners. So it is my conclusion that these topics, which are subject to the general EEA conventions for resource management, fall outside the opinion that I have been assigned to deal with and therefore do not have a significance for the administrative authority to produce a so-called third energy package. I think that in the third day of the discussion, yesterday and the day of the day, this wasn't completely clear, I think because it's relatively clear how these matters are being handled. But in the discussion there has been a little stir in the pots. It's my feeling. But this is very clear, then with the PCI list. This is extremely important. There were Icelandic companies; Landsnet and Landsting and Governments of that time -- all I believe by the ríkisstjórn of the Sigmundur of David Gunollson at the time had something to do with applying for the PCI list at that time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u9	V.E.G. President. Yes, it is only evident in the discussion that this is a complicated discussion. It's very complicated. Therefore, yesterday in my speech, I rejoiced to discuss these controversial EU types here and there. A senator pointed to the beginning of the third day. I agree with what. A senator says that this is a very complex discussion, and he has every reason to be careful. I think it matters about a sea cable, and there's no misunderstanding there. There's a contingency proposal that it was the last member of the council. But we do know that many people have definitely heard of agents in the large world who are interested in approaching green energy here. It's just normal. But I want, at the top. President, that we approach this project so that the Icelanders have full custody of the institutions that will handle it. In this case I mention the institution that has already received the apparent power promotion, and that it will be particularly well considered to be Icelanders who are in charge of the issues and not of the European Union. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u10	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to extend the discussion. I'm mainly looking for a purpose in making this proposal. I can't see any better than it's completely meaningless. In fact, it's in a bit inconsistent with what we're looking at, because here says, by permission of the president: ▪ The reason for the change is because for a few years it has been considered to link the Icelandic electrical power system to the electrical systems of other countries. More than anything else has been seen in Britain. I'm guessing this is the kind of eruption that they're talking about there. But much of what is being prepared now in this country might be prepared to put a cable in the future at some point. Now I'm going to pick up the cable speech that's been trying to say that I've been here for three days, which is wrong. I haven't talked about a cable until now. In preparation, there is an northeast line called, which has far more electricity than we need. It has enough electricity to feed sea cables, except 100 research permits for so-called microins, which are 9.9 megawatts, or slightly smaller, to underline environmental impacts. 100 such microinvolvers and the permit holder are the same. The MAH is one and the same for these 100 inducers. So we're not talking about some cute peasants, that some farmer in the north or in the west is applying the town brook. We're talking about a private company getting 100 contracts to build 100 microintendents. This 100 permission, if activation, could result in the production of 1,000 megawatts, a considerable force that would undoubtedly be used to feed a navigator in case of use. We were already discussing a law bill that in itself was the same as this proposal. I see nothing better at first sight, but even in this suggestion, there are points that disagree with the lyrics we were going over just a few minutes ago in the bill. So I think there's a lot of need for people to read it carefully when it comes to committees. Second, I encourage the committee to look for a purpose in this matter of Congress. I think that might be the first step, so we can find out something interesting. It's far from me to extend the discussion very much, but I'm advertising for the purpose of this council-sense proposal that is currently being made.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u11	Mr. President. There are many things to consider, but I would like to discuss what was presented in the Sermon on the Mount. A senator's transport system of electrical energy in the north. He makes comments on the ideas of electricity transport systems in Northern countries and suggests that this is the process of preparing some of the Arctic lines in the transport system to be used by means of a cable. I would be very interested in getting more information about this and an explanation for the reason why. A senator is leaving and either way. Since a senator is not aware of the state of the Arctic transport system in electricity, he does not know where the electrical power system is going in the north. It's extremely important to get this out. This is what I call being stirring pots with some nonsense, as in this case, as indicated here, and being done in yesterday's Spotlight. In the north, we live in an area where electricity has been scarce for 10 to 15 years, little can be done, job structure has been limited because of this. Then it goes on to some debate over sea cables, and building the transport systems of electricity in Northern countries is about giving birth to a sea cable. This is a shameful discussion. I can tell you that we Norwegians have no patience for such things and comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u12	Mr. President. I thank you very much for this counter, which affords me a great opportunity to inform you that I know that the Eyjafjörður region, including the Eyjafjörður. is already severe and has been a long time. It is so remarkable that since the start of mixed activation in 1992, it has never been fully effective because it has not been able to deliver energy, i.e. east of the Huninga County, east of the Eyjafjorda. I'm well aware of this. But I'm talking about a whole different line, huh? Senator. I'd love to tell you about it. It's a little more interesting than the one mentioned here that it would have been a long time ago, and it's been arranged for a line between blending and e.g. to Akureyri, it would have hit the ground, and mixed activation had been run with full force. We're talking about 30 years. But I'm talking northeast, a new one. I'm talking about her. I'm not talking about a line that should give everything to Eyjafjörður. Not at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u13	What line are you talking about?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u14	I'm talking about a line that has either been called a northeast line or a Crucess line. She's east of Akureyri. I ask the senator to respect me for reading the news on that subject. If he was shocked, then the accounts must have been wrong. I'll reiterate it to what it's about. A senator I am well aware that it is hardly possible to install a tire shop in Akureyri now because of a lack of electricity. I described just what I thought would be done to prevent it and correct it. I'm not talking about some kind of energy crisis for Eyjafjörður. [[The president calls.]] Far from it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u15	President. I was talking about that same line, too. We're talking about the base line. We're talking about a line between the Mixed and River Valley Station. From the carburettor of the Rangers at Akureyri, it's called Mixed Line 3. From the Cruces, it's Holasadnd line 3. And from the Cruces at the River Valley Station, it's called "Create Line Three." It doesn't mean anything to talk about one line and put it in the context that the crossline 3 is thought-in for a cable. Scaling line 3 is part of the country's population and one of three lines that connect North and East. I regret that people don't feel better when they talk about such serious matters as they've been doing here as in the Castlight last night. You have to be clear about what they're saying in these matters. This is one of the largest national issues today, and I would have thought that in this hall there would be a whale. Senators to clear this up. When we talk about these matters, people have to have their sizes quite clear and what we talk about. This isn't a northeast line. It's just "Create Line 3" from the River Valley Station, Holasannd line 3 from the Courtyards of the Cruces and Reconstructive Line 3 from the Industry of the Ranger Field in Akureyri. This is all part of this fragular circle I think it's really bad. I think it's so reprehensible that we're here, since we're going to have a serious discussion about these matters. I think it's only necessary to discuss this further. We took a lot of discussion about the electrical transport systems that we agreed on in June. We've just taken this discussion. This is one of the most important discussions of the development of the country today. [[The president calls.]] Clearly, we need to teach the entire body more about these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u16	V.E.G. President. I'll be happy if it's all right. A senator wants to discuss this matter with me, so he rejoices, and he is, in effect, obliged to accept counsel instead of being reasonable and helpful. I'm sorry I got upset. A senator like this before sleep, because in all these matters we've been discussing here during the third 24 hours, the last thing I've seen was laughter in my mind. We're making very important decisions on all these matters, except this case right here that I don't understand. Therefore I pray not to be accused of any lightness: I pray not. I'm not going down there because there's a word that Northeast's supplies are beyond needs, and I'm not talking about it at all. A senator is cutting into my mouth. I'm talking about the ability to carry as described in the northeast line is beyond what we need. [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator can only laugh at me as he wants to, but we just need to talk about it in a better void and go over it carefully. But to think that I'm talking down the Northland and in the Eyjafjörður, that's far away, I pray.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u17	Mr. President. How interesting it is to observe the few talks that have been held on these subjects! One side comes the other. paritaprevir And close to Trausti Friðbertsson, he wraps it up for a while. paritaprevir Sæmundsson claimed about the so - called northeast line, which, of course, is right for our man. Njáll Trausti son of Friðbertsson, Curcer Line 3, and then things are implied that seem to have no opinion. In fact, it has been specifically checked where the connection should be most likely to come if we thought of laying a cable. It would be the southeast corner, and there's no connection today and it's not on any plan. It's like this. Then came the reason. paritaprevir Una María Óskarsdóttir and spoke about the PCI list and that the European Union or company could put us on that list and the ACER decision whether to agree to such applications or not. This could not be more far away from you. The project does not enter this list unless it is requested, and it is not an EU or company in the world but a Landsactivation or Landsnet that can want it. Member States, which in our case is Iceland, have to agree to that. It won't be different. This is a fact that cannot be disputed in any way. It cannot be claimed that it is the European Union that puts us on this list or that the ACER has some authority in it, that is a complete bullshit. This isn't right. I don't know if anyone else is. In recent discussions or not, members of the council held that fact. If it's been done, I hope someone has answered and assumed it was done. If not, at least now. Then we can stop discussing that there are others besides us who decide whether we are on the list. I repeat, we've taken ourselves out of the list. We are no longer on the list and will not appear on it in November when it is relighted. Besides, if we were to consider a sea cable, there would be a geographical probability that it would be in Britain. In fact, you have to watch between hours of what's going on in that country, but in view of the situation as I think it is now, Britain probably won't even be in the European Union and then on this rule we're arguing about not arguing over heads. Then there's something completely different. Besides that, we have no rule on sea cables because the cable is not on schedule. If a cable was planned, there would have to be a lot of discussion here. We'd need the approval of the Generals, and then we'd need to proceed from there to the Landsnet System. Then we'd have to make up all the rule around it, because it doesn't exist. There are, of course, major jobs, many laws. Landsnet clients are for today merely big business and distribution plants. We'd have to make a new customer then. It's all about the organizational authority and the number of laws that all of us would have to enter here in a special discussion for approval, for the treatment of Congress, and for all of that. If you write out what men have held in their discussions, some people can come here and put a sea cable that will likely cost hundreds of billions of dollars. If such a cable were to be laid, it would be far longer than the longest sea cable in the world. I don't know if it would be a more technical idea or a more economic idea, but it would have to be sold at a pretty high price to pay for it. There are so many things you can pick up that will show how far this statement is apart from the fact that on the ground there is the General meeting that needs to agree with this. When it's all said that it's rather pointless, I'm generally the opinion, regardless of the third energy package, that this point is simply an interpretation of the structure of the electrical transport system as a factor. Of course, this is also to be taken into account and to answer concerns about custody in this discussion. This is part of the way we do the work, listen to our concerns, and answer them objectively, bringing in careful speech and discussion that takes over any doubt.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u18	It was reported this morning that Reverend Ingiberg J. Hannesson, a former member of the council, had died in the nursing home of Sólunni in this city. Sunday, April 7th. He was 84 years old. Ingiberg Jónas the son of Hannesson was born in the Valley of Avengers in Isafjörg on March 9, 1935. His parents were Hannes the Guðjónsson of Guðjónán, a sailor, and a workman there, and the daughter of Guðjónsdóttir, the mistress, and the workman. Ingiberg finished a student exam from high school to Lake Saturday in 1955, and an official testing of theology from Iceland's University of 1960. He was at the end of the class of a journalist and executive of the Free Nation for a brief period of time, then a dedicated priest at the Standard Assembly in the summer of 1960, and was sitting at Puppy, in Sourville. He later became tested in the Dala's test example of 1969, and after 45 years of full - time priestly service, he became a member of the United States of Snæfellsness and Dala, until he retired 70 years of age. Ingiberg J. Hannesson became when he dedicated himself to a priest who was active in social affairs in the province, in school, in child - welfare, in abstinence, and in business, and in the past. in the Western Board of Education, 1974,1978. Ingiberg became a deputy member of the Independence Party in the Westland District at the 1974 election, then three times at a council meeting, which he took to the General Assembly in the summer of 1977, at the death of Jón the Árnason's son. So he was sitting at four legislatures, sitting in the upper ward and sitting in the Department's transport and agricultural committees. Ingiberg J. Hannesson found a doll in all the marches, modesty, and humility. He was a popular priest in his hometown, a good and heard - speaking speaker, and a good writer. He was searched for many developments in the country and neighboring areas, and he faithfully followed them. Some of the years have passed since the end of his assembly, and it was short. Nevertheless, those who remember Reverend Ingiberg have fond memories of him in the commercial halls of the Generals. I ask a council to remember the Reverend J. Hannesson's son by rising from his seats. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u19	Borist has a letter from Andrés Ingi Jónsson that he cannot attend next week. So today, on Tuesday, April 9, the General Assembly takes up residence as his assistant 2 on the left-hand list of offered greens in the district, Álfheiður Ingadóttir, but 1st. She has previously taken her place at the General Assembly, and she is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u20	The president considers an agreement that may last longer than the Senate allows.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u21	Borist has received a letter from the Minister of Justice asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a request for this request. 1113, on the work of a bailiff, from Eymarsdóttir Islandersdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u22	A respectable president. The responsibility of our senators who are dealing with the work and the commitment to work on the behalf of the nation is great. It is especially about how we carry out our work and how we conduct our discussion and how we take in our information given to the nation about the issues we are dealing with at one time. Thus, when you see members of the council prove to be such a misinformation that has been held up on the issue that is now being discussed at the council on the third energy package, you are inconceivably disappointed. When the discussion is finally started, it becomes clear how unfounded the claims have been so far. We have been under attack by certain parties and in the community that the members of this hall are acting on some form of fraud by supporting this issue, the violation of a constitution, the handing out of the nation's resources to foreign wealth, and so on. Of course, it comes to the day when the members of the same party are in a pit and are following material talks on the subject that there is no way to back up the claims made. It would be wish that they were better able to paint on these matters. It is completely intolerable that a member of the Parliament is living up to the charges of taking his word of honor to Iceland's Constitution to sit here to betray his country by supporting the language that the third energy package is about in all its simplicity, which is the consumer protection for the public in the country of energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u23	Mr. President. Recently, several features of the Kingdom News program were featured in the Committee on Family Violence and its consequences. These are very powerful things that I encourage everyone. Senators to listen to. Even there was a number of them. Talk to women who have had domestic violence, the hard experiences of doing so, and the long - term effects on their lives. It shows that it is easier said than done to break free from such violent relationships. Happily, the police have adopted a new way of handling such violence, and they cope with it with it with great professionalism - and are successful. The other is that the aftereffects of a violent relationship are still largely inexplicable. There, much work remains to be done, and it is especially necessary to review rules regarding custody of children and the association rights of those who have practiced violence. Similarly, a pot is broken in the system when it comes to the disposal of lawbreakers and property exchanges. Sadly, in many cases violence, physical, but mostly spiritual, does not end because people no longer live together. Thus, the victim of violence will continue with the means available, such as arguing about custody and association with children, fighting against law divorce, and stopping farming. He thus maintains his violence and accepts the life of those who were victims of the violent relationship. Mr. President. It is strange that adultery is a reason for divorce, not violence. How could someone who uses violence delay legal separation? Now it is said of a lack of coordination and separation in marital law: [[The president calls.]] ▪ Now that a husband and wife have separated because of disagreement, they can ask for a legal divorce when a separation has lasted for two years. This is a crying inconsistency and injustice. We have to fix this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u24	The president asks why. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u25	A respectable president. Good things happen with a wide variety of cooperation, and I want to start by celebrating the biographer contracts that are a product of many months of cooperation and that will bring a number of people benefits. In-line agreements are suggestions from the work group to help young people and low income to obtain housing, and they are suitable for the new role of the camp loan fund. Young people's thresholds and poor income are too high. The responsibilities of young people have increased less than in recent years, and the price of suitable housing has increased dramatically. A lot of tenants want to get into their own apartment. The proportion of rent - house workers is higher than a decade ago, and the proportion of low - income workers in this group has increased proportion. The majority of tenants want to live in their own homes, and this is a failure. Among these are the two new types of housing bar, starting loans, and loans. By means of start loans, the state would provide additional loans with high credit rates and favorable interest rates for the particular groups than with personal loans, which would be loans for 15-◯30% and without payments. Both routes are useful to groups that now find it difficult to meet payment and may also be used as incentives for building suitable and suitable housing. Among other suggestions, first purchases and reimbursement from student loans are enlarged. I believe that once the proposals go into effect, it's very important to these groups, and that's where we're even. talking about homes of children, young people, cripples, and people who have lost property because of some type of trauma. There will be an interesting and worthwhile project when the proposals are applied more closely as a prime address on the General Study.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u26	A respectable president. Where are we when Iceland's Medical Insurance refuses to pay for the dental treatment and treatment of a little boy born with a broken lip and split palate, a birth defect? There are four children in Iceland today who need such treatment. How can one stand at the High Council as part of the Lawgiver and honestly say: It is not up to the parents. They have to pay for everything because Iceland's health insurance won't pay. V.E.G. However, the health care provider intended to implement a prior Regulation, at least seemed it was her good will at the time, to grove for exactly this. I read this article in the Morning Press last night and I have to say that I'm practically speechless. In this article, this young mother asks a nine - year - old boy in the Western Islands: "What's going on? What the hell's with all this discrimination? We cannot be known for such things, a respectable president. Can we really be known for not helping a small child with a birth defect to have a normal life, not helping them with dental work? I say no. A respectable president. I dare all of us to prevent such things. It is injustice and should not be tolerated in any civilized society. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u27	Mr. President. In February the last month, I made a pact proposal, along with nine other members of the United States, left green, responsored, and Pirata that it is forbidden to use palm oil in the production of biodivers in Iceland. The proposal suggests that travel, industrial, and innovation ministers will be assigned to submit a bill no later than at the end of 2019 C.E. to prohibit the use of palm oil in biodisil, Iceland. As shown in the last episode of what have we done? in TRUV, rainforests are cleared when palm oil is harvested, which has a significant impact on the environment and on the environment and on the environment that is important to them. The proposal is provided with a detailed report based on the Rannveig Magnúsdóttir of ecology. That's where even the two of them come from. until, by permission of the President: ▪ Today, the largest part of palm oil is on the market in unsolvable and is responsible for deforestation of rain forests. It is estimated that at least 15 million acres [15 million ha] of rain forest have already been dropped for the production of palm oil, mainly in Indonesia and Malaysia. Such land covers - to put it in context - the size of a year and a half of Iceland. The production of palm oil has doubled over the past decade and will likely double until 2020. Of course, it would be tempting to go further and simply ban all the imports of palm oil into Iceland, but it is thought to be a good first step in life. While biofuels have been viewed as non-carbon products, the simple product has actually deceived governments into believing that palm oil for biofuels is better for the climate than fossil fuels. Sadly, the opposite is true. Then a biodiversity is produced in three locations in Iceland today and has a new opportunity to produce as environmentally friendly biosilver as possible. Mr. President. I encourage a body of Congress to study the proposal and its report and to support the case when it is scheduled for springtime.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u28	A respectable president. Great steps were taken when signing biographies that the workers met with government support last week. This contract is a new approach to the fact that the standard of living in a labour market applies to the entire nation, and therefore the government must act in the same way. The government's access to a biography agreement involves a number of ways that will beat the rhythm of the workforce's partners in order to maintain stability. The candidates have long struggled for the prolongation of birthday vacations, and finally we see fit for those goals. In the early 1920's, the birthworm will be extended from nine months to ten at the beginning of the year, and at the beginning of 2021, it will be born in 12 months. It will continue to make sure that the parent has the right to take his or her or her birth certificate, but part of the mouth will be replaced. Parents find themselves in a void between maternity and nursery choice, creating both uncertainty and loss of income for their parents. It is also answering the calls of local members who have had good intentions, but sometimes they are not able to bridge this gap. Next year, children's failure limits are also to rise to 325,000. A respectable president. The advance team has had its policy sheet to remove the staff from the index. That the peace which was signed should be preached in the things that were written. This is in line with the results of a task force on the national financial policies, which says that housing prices do not belong in Iceland's Pentateuchary Bank. This contributes to the stability of the housing market. In addition, there are one 13 other provisions for housing to support buyers and tenants with special emphasis on first purchases. The reconciliation signed gives evidence of us in a labor market after a frightening winter marked by uncertainty and pessimism. However, thanks to the high - quality leadership of a team in the workforce and in the development of the government, spring has come back.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u29	Mr. President. First, I want to say the word with the question. paritaprevir Sæland Howil. This discrimination, towards children who have a gap in soft gum, has to be stopped by Iceland's Medical Insurance Institute. If the Agency does not trust to enforce a Minister's Regulation, as is not the first time in this category, the General must intervene and correct the law. I was going to discuss barber damage and mold, reports that the surgeon general's office is forced to flee what once was a flagship of health care in Reykjavík, the health care center. I was involved in the case of a health minister when the office moved to the house, and I am so disappointed that once again there will be no health - related service in this historic house that was left of public property for a long time ago. Well, that's another story. Recently, it was also reported that there were almost 400 students of Fos Sports School in the days when the school was suddenly closed but, fortunately, the damage is smaller than it was supposed to be, and it will start teaching again in the fall. The list is very long, but time does not allow for a list. I'm just going to remind you of the Department of Energy, the Land Hospital, U.S. Bank headquarters, etc. Mr. President. This is a serious matter because it is a greeting to people, both at home, at work, and at school. As repeated, it is about one third of the workers who are affected by mold. When homes suddenly become unfit for an apartment, and most are involved, they also cause enormous financial damage, and so do government possessions, such as schools and hospitals built for taxes. I would like to encourage a special research committee to determine what has failed and failed in the construction, maintenance and association of houses here on the land, institutions and homes. Here is the health and economic situation of individuals and society at stake.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u30	Mr. President. I want to come up here and say how happy I am that a collective labour agreement was obtained. It has been a nightmare among the people that there have been fierce conflicts, but the labor movement is to be commended for having protected the rights of those who are to be remembered. I would also like to commend the employers for showing understanding and meeting the worst in terms of contracts that have been made with the establishment of the government that was involved in these contracts as never before. There's never been so much money to support the collective agreements that have been done today, which will be used by those who follow up as well. There are 80 billion in total that the state suggests to build a powerful welfare system here and face various battles that the labor movement has fought for, and this contributes to the agreements that truly are biographies. It matters. In this conference hall, what is bad may be spoken of, but less is what is done well. This is well done by all those who have been able to get together and land these big, big, difficult contracts. " But what about the other classes that follow? ' Official employees will negotiate, of course, their right to negotiate. He doesn't take any of them away, and let's hope they'll do as well if they're going to run their contracts against their purchases and terms as we did in these contracts here. Also mentioned are the elderly and the poor. We know that it is almost possible to bring a microchip bill. We have to face it, because money is meant to improve the interest of the elderly and the poor, and we need to get that money to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u31	A respectable president. The government's financial program continues to increase the overall production of public health through the timeliness of the programme. Annual donations to the seminar are expected to be about 28 billion dollars in the year 2024. higher than they are today. This corresponds to about 11% more real life over the period. As soon as next year, the share of the State is increasing at the expense of patients by about 300 million. During the next four years, the Kingdom will increase its share by 800 million. K. every year. An increase in government donations to reduce the patient's payment of medical care, except for the period of approximately 9 billion years. It is aimed to ensure that the national body of patients will therefore be comparable to that of the other northern nations. Large - scale funds are also spent to reduce the patient's pay load for health care, including the emphasis. to promote health care in the elderly and in the field of disability. The work of so - called waiting lists, replacements, eyestones, and surgery continues. Certain gynaecological and atrial fibrillation-induced incineration procedures are primarily intended for 840 billion. Q, to shorten these patients' delay for this important action. This consists of 570 joint replacement measures in excess of the number of measures performed without special financial contributions. Of these, 250 will be performed at the Land Hospital, the same as in the Akureyri hospital, and about 70 at the Western Institute for Health. In comparison, 523 were conducted during the joint replacement procedure last year. The eyestone surgery will be 1,300 more and about 140 more operations on the pelvic organs of women. As I said, there will continue to be the growth of mental - health services, and this year it has a total of 650 million. K. Already be taken into account. In the years that follow, additional contributions will continue to be made to promote mental - health activities of 100 million each year, each year up to 2024. [[The president calls.]] It's a government government, and this is the health minister who makes it talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u32	A respectable president. Where's the product coming from? What is the ideal and preferred equipment of the products, which is the carbon footprint, the use of drugs, toxins, etc.? All of these are terms worth considering. I well remember the factories that were in their time in the Valley of Glasses, north of Akureyri, in many respects a thriving industry that did not survive in competition with products outside. Today, the same location is a thriving shopping center - a domestic industry and a variety of foreign goods. Where are we headed? Is that all right? Probably it's good for consumers. But is it good for the national economy? I'm pretty sure it's not. All of this costs money, and as we produce, the more it costs us, our national resources, and our consumers after all. It is well - known that the nations of the world try to protect their domestic production by means of various tools, protective instruments, and direct or indirect support. Increased competitiveness, therefore, is beneficial not only in the commercial world but also in the community as a whole. Industrial growth is still large in the Icelandic economy and accounts for about 30% of the land's production. The article is wide and nearly all aspects of the economy. The article has played a major role in today's economic surge, and there are great opportunities for growth, especially with further activation of intelligence and innovation. A respectable president. Every store is good, but we do not build a society for the future without flourishing industry for the sea and country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u33	A respectable president. Iceland is a small island in the middle of the Atlantic. It contains both threats and opportunities. Our quality of life depends largely on foreign business. Thus international trade has increased production opportunities in Iceland, and the increase in production and value production increases the financial resources of the population. During the past 25 years, gross domestic product has been produced on a scale of approximately double. In the past 25 years, the commercial power of the households has nearly doubled. In the past 25 years, the value of exporting has tripled the value of solid prices. It is safe to say that economic growth and prosperity have increased greatly in the last 25 years. But why do I use the criteria 25 years? Yes, it is because Iceland became a member of the European Economic Area 25 years ago and although I believe that we had survived well without being a member of the EEA, I also believe that the prosperity of our little island is largely thanks to our occasional freedom and independent trade with other countries. Our Member States enable our companies to have 580 million domestic markets. I've heard professional agents talk about the EEA as their lifeline. The EEA goes out on more than the trade of products and services between countries, also free flow of capital and people. That's part of the deal, too. People move to and from the country like flexions that have a positive influence on the Icelandic economy and that the relationship between economic growth and migration is obvious. On the 25th anniversary of the EEA Convention, there is every reason to discuss the agreement and its importance for Iceland. The contract has great advantages, no doubt also some flaws, but it is our business to deal with them and to make full use of the benefits that the contract gives us. Part of the four freedoms and the access to the EEA market are created by consistent regulations of goods and market services. Sometimes it is that rules that are of little importance in the continent have little or no importance here. This is the third energy pack. Just part of what he has to offer to move to our island. Then we adapt the package input so that our interests and resources are secure and continue with confidence to the future because there are opportunities. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u34	Mr. President. For word's sake. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson, here in a pit, and in the media of the brightness, and in those that have appeared there, I would like to say: this is not worth answering. But then what I wanted to talk about. This time I'd like to discuss transport in the Northlands, and I'd like to point out a world of Congress on two accident traps in a road system there. On the one hand, it is the bridge across the Shiver Creek River, which is single - burning and ready for its own years. She's a child of her time, an end built for about 85 years. Because of its weight limits, larger trucks must cross the River River River River River River on their way from Akureyri to Húsavík. Ideas have long been up to convey the current bridge site to the south of House Bank. The position of the bridge is in place of poor, considerable weight, and very costly repairs, and it would still have to be a defender. It is also appropriate to call the attention of the United Nations on the bridge of Gordras, also a bolt, and the arrival of that bridge is very dangerous. There have been repeated accidents, with Gordys increasingly popular resorts to tourists. Since it is now time for more than 3,000 cars to cross the bridge every day, it is urgent to begin with the construction of two - build bridges in these places as soon as possible. A transport strategy provides estimates of a bridge in the second period of transport, the year 2024 in 202028. If we look at the stage where it will go in the second part of the second non-law period - that is for 2028 - it must be considered unacceptable to the road users involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u35	A respectable president. During the week, I sit at the General Assembly as a deputy, two and a half years from the last time I sat here. It has been very interesting to observe the activities of the Parliament during those years and all the community discussions about their work. Well, it's safe to say that it seems who it is. All too often, I feel that the talk is made up of national pride and negativeness, especially with minorities, the people most in need of understanding, respect, and protection. One of these groups is the hospices who here seek refuge from terrible situations in hopes of a better life for themselves, but especially in hopes that their children will have better opportunities than wicked government, conflict, violence, corruption, and poverty have provided them at home. A respectable president. The talk about this vulnerable group in community media and in society often sucks. Even more pathetic, though, is the fact that even in the General Assembly and in the government system, there are people who want to meet these unfortunate people with steel fists. There's a lot of work to do to strengthen confidence in the Generals and the whole administration. In order for this to happen, we must be able to trust that elected representatives and officials will keep their word and cherish and defend the interests of all community groups, no matter where they come from. Keep in mind that words of evil first exist, and the worst of acts of violence in all history were exposed to words that were steeped in prejudice, hatred, and falsehood. Surely that story will repeat itself if we do not have the courage and authority to protect human rights and moral society. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u36	Mr. President. The root cause of society is often frightening. There are many ways in which people react when they lose their job, their housing, and other things that they rely on. What a fine example it has been to see the organization that has arose in South Africa after the fall of WOW! Sadly, the public has grown accustomed to dealing with very bad situations, but no one should have to live with such experiences. There's another group, a small group in Icelandic society. Refugees have had to flee the disaster of the unknown in search of a good life. When they arrive at the end of the world, they face a lack of understanding and indifference from the governments. No one should have to live with such experiences either. Last night I saw the Albanian films Capharnaüm or Chaos. From the viewpoint of a 12 - year - old boy, this picture presents a tragic way in which the lives of the poor, the unemployed, the refugees, the elderly, and others who often face social waste are closely linked. Yet, there are some among us who want these groups to conflict with one another instead of joining in the injustices they are all treated. Ragnar Þór Pétursson spoke yesterday at the Teacher Union of Iceland, with permission of presidents: ▪ We need to take big things up in the big stage and face the fact that they all sit tight because our society lacks the foundation foreboding, trust. There's a lot of anger in the community about politics. Every day the members of Congress come in mail, accusing us from treason and violations of the Constitution for deliberate assault on the public. Even some senators have talked about others this way, to make a radio interview this morning. This anger is useless, and it is harmful. It undermines the capacity of society to build the trust we need in order to deal with these big issues. It is absolutely essential that members of Congress avoid appealing to the interests of some groups at the expense of others but rather seek to pursue the community's interests as a group. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u37	A respectable president. In effect, the biographies that the workers of the work market with the administration of the government now completed at a critical point in the days, in fact, a turning point. It is good for all those who come to this present to be honored. They have worked hard. These treaties include triumphs for the government, where many of the goals we have set, and in our government covenants, have been fulfilled, in order to make taxes grow. What I feel is the most important thing about all of this, which I think, I think, is a turning point in a business discussion of collective agreements in Iceland, is when it is decided to place all employees on some kind of request system, i.e. that employees receive premium, gain recognition, and share in the economic benefits that may occur in the years to come. This should even result in completion of the agreements in which each piece is to be taken from the national cake. The labour market members, together with us at the General Assembly, are returning to discuss how we increase the cake so that all slices will be larger for all community groups. A respectable president. It's a complete breakthrough, as far as I'm concerned. I was thinking about these dresser talks, when these differences were over how big each piece was going to get, why people weren't discussing how we were going to expand the cake. It's time to do so. We have had a business, the tourism, which has attracted the economic growth car in recent years. There is a turning point. Now we need articles and opportunities that make a fortune, something valuable to all over the country. As a result, we've grown the national cake, increased economic growth, what will then be exchangeed for wage workers in the country as well as for those in the trade. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u38	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank the secretary of state for yesterday's history. I am not accustomed to thank that man, much less commend him, but in material terms the talk was good. True, he hit an Iceland record on a bullet train with it, so the older ones may not have achieved everything that came out there. But this suggestion has caused quite a wolf's spirit in the community and in many areas of great concern. I understand those concerns very well. I myself was very strange and am always strange when it comes to our resources, our custody over them, and I want to be pretty sure that custody is ours and that this is all about our interests. As these concerns were quite large, the secretary of state, trade, and innovation of both the secretary of state and the secretary of industry in a highly preparatory work to ensure that there was no doubt that the energy package would be introduced with the premise that we ourselves would make any decisions about our energy sources, or energy, whether we would be connected to the internal market or not. I have to say, after all the work that was done, I'm not worried that we're hurting our interests in any way in any way in this regard. That's key. And it is true what the minister of foreign affairs said that homework has been done very well, although it is known to be the highest level. During their years of study, a foreign minister was not very good at homework. There he was, doing his homework very well, and I'm a carefree man myself. It is true that there were two main concerns. On one hand, we were somehow committed by the induction of the energy package to connect with the European electricity market. It's obvious that it's not happening. It is legal that Iceland will not be connected with the EU internal energy market except with the approval of the Alliedis and with the exception of a special opinion on whether such a decision is compatible with the Icelandic constitution. So it will not be put to the test until we, the General, have made that decision, or are going to make that decision. This is key. That's why I'm not worried, so those who have been so worried about this should study thoroughly, and I'm in no doubt that we don't have to take this hard discussion right now. She's not timely, she might be normal at the time. If there was a bill that we personally intended to connect to the Europe's inner market through an electrical cord, it would be normal to take this discussion. As is the case today, we are discussing a conversation that is not yet under way. We're not there yet. And it is not some scholar who, with the warning given here, has claimed that it is an abnormal exposition of power that does not belong to the Constitution. There's no one who claims it. And I can assure the U.S. Congress that I would not even think of accepting this energy package if I thought it would hurt Icelandic interests. Just never. And it's ridiculous that I'll start trying to deceive the nation in some way, and I won't even think about trying to deceive the people. But I'm going to try to convince those who are still skeptical, which I understand completely, I'm not going to belittle it. I'm not gonna belittle it, either, if anyone thinks our interests are not better off within the EEA Convention, then let's just take that up. But this induction here, with the available warnings that are completely explained - there is absolutely no reason to turn it down, because we don't even know what the consequences will be for our community's interests. It can be very damaging to our community if we choose not to introduce this energy package. We're working together. At first, we made a decision to cooperate. There's a lot of stuff involved. And we can't afford to allow ourselves, unless we risk our interests, to decide to reject something like that, as some people would like here with unforeseen consequences, knowing that from the beginning that energy, if we're going to connect, would be a product on the market. And then we can talk about it. Would that, then, be an unnatural act of authority that would violate the constitution? True, I'm not worried about them either. We've just approved a personal protection law where power is delivered to a national institution and no one was worried about it, perhaps because we didn't have a resource under it. But it's all part of the two supporting systems, so I'm not worried that this is some sort of expeditation, and certainly not now, in power that is in conflict with the constitution. I'm asking senators and the general public to put themselves into this situation, because I hear the discussion in the community. I even hear the anger. And I can totally understand that. But I ask all the public and the Senate to go over the wonderful work that has been done, to ensure insure absolutely sure that we are not putting any interests at risk. We are not handing over any power. We're not harming Icelandic interests. That's key. I am absolutely convinced that the public will change their mind, since I know that in surveys the public has been very opposed. When people learn all of this, their attitude will change.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u39	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. A third pack of energy includes the exporting of energy to law-enforcement and executional power when a cable becomes reality and it will become reality. If all of this is true and goes down with a cable, a cable will be laid. Hörður Arnarson, director of Land activation, said at the main meeting in 2014 that an electrical cable would be submitted to Iceland in the future. There was no doubt about it. In Britain, he expressed a keen interest in this, encouraging the introduction to the sea cables. The time point will come when a sea cable will be laid in Iceland, there's no doubt about it. Technology is coming, and there is tremendous efficiency, and evolution is fast, saying the director of Landing. The government's scope in this case is to ban sea cables to Europe in order to accept the third energy package. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Yeah. Senator: Why is the European Union's administrative authority in our small country at the time of ban?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u40	V.E.G. President. Is anyone talking about banning a cable? I can't rule out that one day a cable is going to be laid. It is a decision that must be made in this room and that will not be made unless one considers the best interests of his life by associating with the internal markets with energy. But I'm not sure that it's our best interest to connect to Europe's inner market with energy at least not what the situation is right now. Of course, I don't know what the future will be like. Although we would now ban a sea cable, after a few years the General Assembly can decide to eliminate that prohibition and connect, it has no meaning. I don't want to forbid anything. I want to watch our interests at any given time. I view our interests as being part of this deal now. I'm totally convinced of that. And I'm going to stay in this contract, stay a party to this deal, at least as long as there's no better. And I have nothing better to offer. I want to fulfill our responsibilities as far as possible, but I will never accept anything that goes against our great interests. If I believe it will go against our interests now to lay a cable, I will not agree. There's nothing more complicated than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u41	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. What are they afraid of? [[Up front.]] Why can't you say no? [[The point is: Asking is one of the most likely questions.]] What's so dangerous about saying no to this? The ability to do what is right. The members of Parliament answered that question? [[Foreground on: Yes.]] This will only lead to the EEA joint committee. We just deal with it there. Hv. A senator earlier said that the discussion was not timely. Then why is this energy package being introduced? Senator, if the discussion isn't timely? Let's try this out for the joint EEA committee. It's the right setting in this matter, but not just to agree on it without murmuring. There is now a great dread of saying no in this matter. It's just for the committee, and we'll get an exception there. It's the right course instead of bringing in this and worrying so badly that we're not going to have any cable. He'll be here, and then we'll be connected to this common energy area. Then this joint organisation, which resides in Slovenia, will handle the use of electricity prices, etc. It's 43 a.m., this 14th hour in Denmark. It's $18. Iceland And do you really think we're going to enjoy it? No, it'll be the same price all over the line. This energy package is just one thing for Icelanders: it translates a higher energy prices to homes and companies in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u42	V.E.G. President. We're not accepting this energy package with no reason to complain. We are murmuring. This is not done without murmuring. This place is more preemptive. It's like the highest. The minister of the State said that he had belts and shoulder bands and goods if he didn't wear any of his clothes as well. Hv. One senator asked: "Why can't you say no? True, I've always been such a man that I say no if I can say no. But why say no? We're party to this deal. It's more of us than we are. If everyone's going to use it when there's something made and induction that's their interest - and then the Norwegian just say no, because it doesn't matter to them. We're not supposed to say no just to say no. We're supposed to say no if it damages our interests. It won't. That's the point. This is where they say no just because they say no. [[Foreground on: No.]] No. [[Top of the line: Listen.]] No, just because some other time later, people have decided that we're going to do something, like what. A senator said. [[For example: Well?]] There's gonna be a cable. [[To the point: Of course.]] I don't have the psychics that the good men have. This is only what you can do, be a part of such cooperation, to secure our interests. It's with brivs, if I may gossip, from the highest. Minister of state, I'm beginning to boast too much. [[The president calls.]] I'm happy with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u43	Mr. President. Thank you. The speaker, who was unusually free from persuasiveness, when he was on hand. But because of him. A senator said that no one was referring to being handed over to them, I wondered whether he did not read the conclusions of Már's work on Hirst's Friðriksson and Friðrik's Árni Frildurk's piece on page 20. 42, with permission of the highest power. President: We'll be on the 8th floor. Regulation No. 713/2009 recorded in the EEA Convention and introduced in Icelandic correctly as unchanged, the Regulation shall include the implementation of the European Commission to the ESA, which could be passed on by the Icelandic government. And later in the same sentence, by permission of the president: It is not an example for such an executive to the international institutions on the basis of the EEA Convention. Now I'm gonna have to ask who. A senator has not read the report or disagreed with these two respected scholars, whether he is a better lawyer or not. I'd be interested to hear from what. A senator in this regard. He says that everyone here was talking about a cable. Far from it. It's talking about the power over the energy market in Iceland, seeing if the cable is coming, which he makes naturally. [[Up front.]] It's just a sidebar. And now a doctor calls in and has a better opinion of this than the lawyers, and all right with that, every right. But I'd like to ask why. Senator: Has he not read the report of the esteemed scholars involved, or does he simply ignore them?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u44	V.E.G. President. It's all about learning law and then being a lawyer. Of course, I pay attention to my old guru Stefánsson. [["But?"]] It's nothing but that. I'm simply saying that with the operation being done, it doesn't even include Stefán Stefánsson because it contains some expedient form of power. This discussion is possible if we decide to connect with the inner market. It's not taking any control of the energy here to any of the international institutions. There is no doubt that we have a power price here. We're in charge of where we're going to engage. So we determine where the cable will arrive, etc. There is no disagreement about this either between me and Stefán the Már of Stefánsson or between other scholars in law. There's no difference. However, we have always debated the boundaries when we take power over business in Europe in the other and this in a financial market, where some institutions have decided when we are going against the Constitution in it. That's what people argue about. In fact, Stefánsson's Motor has claimed that individual features are not in violation of the constitution, but when they have become so many, it may have been a violation. I'm not gonna argue about it. I'm not going to go to a legal debate on the council chair. I'm just saying that with this project, in this way, this discussion isn't timely. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u45	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for that answer. Still lacking conviction. I ask again because he said that he was not talking about what appears in the report, and I read earlier. I felt that he did not answer the question concerning this fraction of the text on page 18. 43, with President's permission: It is not an example for such an executive to the international institutions on the basis of the EEA Convention. The question is, Did Stefánsson remember this, or did he not write it? What keeps what. Senator forward? Then I think he skates over something else. He says: We're naturally here to control energy, etc. I wonder what. A senator has not read what has been presented in this issue on a device called ACER, which is an overnational authority that will set up a national rule directly under the control of the EU and we have no influence. Gonna go for it. A senator might go to a legal debate with him or to the members there, instead of taking the legal loss of the legislature agreement? And where's the right spot, except maybe in courts? There will be a sure opportunity for this to be agreed upon, to take such debatt elsewhere than here. It's different. I cut it at the end of the day. In answer to this agreement, a senator said that we were on the side of this agreement, and he accepted it while there was nothing better available. Now I'm going to ask you what. A senator: How will he escape that contract if something better is available after his arrival? Wise men have said that the outcome will be no different than telling the whole EEA deal, i.e. if you commit a crime or a crime to accept it as you are. [[The president calls.]] I ask: What will be done if there is something better? What's our way out?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u46	V.E.G. President. We always have the same way, so we can cancel the deal. We can stop. [[Up front.]] If I think our interests are better off outside the EEA, I'll stop there. It's as simple as that. But I don't think our interests are better off outside. That's why I won't suggest leaving the EEA unless I have something better, that I don't see in my hand right now. But speaking of this overwhelming authority and ACER: Where are they coming in now, huh? Senator? What extenuating authority do they have? If we're going to be connected to a market with many nations, would it not be reasonable for someone in such circumstances, such as the EFTA Court, the European Court of Human Rights, etc., to have authority on that trade? What exhilaration is that? I don't understand. [[Up front.]] But there is another discussion. We're part of this together. True, it has no effect on us in terms of energy until we're connected to the market. That is the very essence of our discussion, which I find difficult for many senators to understand. We're not harming any interests, at least Not now. [[Up front.]] - No. The only thing I feel about this deal or a energy package is that some energy agency is supposed to be independent. All that bothers me. Of course, it has come from Europe. [[Up front.]] - Yeah, but that's not why I'm leaving the EEA deal. He's not perfect. He'll never be perfect. Our great interests are to cooperate. [[The president calls.]] I'll say no to everything if I think it's damaging our most important interests. [[The president calls.]] This isn't it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u47	V.E.G. President. During the 1960's, Iceland's inhabitants undertook extensive electrical projects. The country invested in the activation and distribution systems that cost a lot of money to ensure electricity for the citizens of the country's homes and domestic enterprises, but also to attract foreign investments to create European jobs for the future. It was clear that the investment would not immediately return money but in the future, which is now. Land activation was formed to keep this national investment in mind, and our fortresses now yield some 1.5 billion dollars. Each year, according to the executive director of the company, the company could easily pay $110 billion. to the owner of the year 2020/226. Such financial resources can be used to pay off the debt of the state, to reduce taxes, or to invest in infrastructure, which certainly is not unnecessary. But why am I bringing this up? Yes, because the induction of the third energy package will follow the separation of energy companies, companies such as Land induction, and the requirement will likely be divided into smaller units and markets. From that time onward, the profits of our energy supply will flow to private, domestic, or foreign citizens according to incidents, not necessarily to the future generation of our country. The country is at present between 80 and 90% of the productions of pure energy, ecological energy, which is a huge demand. Here it is important to recognize our unique status in Iceland. Well, me and the Icelanders are the consumers of the electricity we produce, and we have the resource. We have authority over her. In many other parts of Europe, this is the opposite. It has the power plant in private property, and the largest part of it does not produce what we call pure energy, but most of the electricity is produced in other ways, to form coal burns, nuclear energy, or oil. In Iceland the delivery of electricity is stable. Electricity prices are stable and low compared to other European countries. We can produce more pure energy than we do now, and this can attract foreign investment. It would produce a well - paying job, and the value of production would be returned in the country. We are jealous of this position, and although I am responsible for the use of natural resources, it is important in the context of the importance of paying attention to Icelandic nature, which is unmistakably possible in the process of activation. In the synonym as discussed here, it is requested by the Generals that permission to the minister and the government be approved to introduce the third energy package. In other words, the administration of the State to the European Commission, all in the name of equations and consumer protection, in Europe, but not in Iceland. Or what is it in a pack of three energy that is so desirable to us Icelanders? Are we ensuring good electricity for Icelanders and businesses in Iceland? Are we favouring our authority over the resource? Are we ensuring future generations from the resource and the standard of living? Or is it something else? Are there other interests for the people I don't see? It may be. But may it be that it is in favor of someone other than the nation's interests and success in the long future that will make a lot of money at the expense of our Icelanders? Could it be that it is securing the competitiveness of industrial companies in central Europe with an increased proportion of green energy? Could it be that it is in the samurai way that we will cut off a cut of autonomy and authority to Brussels until we are, against the nation's will, so far as we can, as far as we can go in the European Union? Or are these my questions all nonsense and nonsense? Is this something that shows spiritual poverty and poverty? Or is it more likely that the opposite might be the other way around and that the populism is the rest who rowed toward Brussels? The Parliamentary decree says, with the permission of a president: It is suggested that the General home of the Government to confirm for Iceland the decision made by the Joint EEA on the uptake of the third energy package in the EEA on the basis that no cross-border infrastructure is currently available in Iceland, which makes it possible to transport electricity between Iceland and EU energy markets. The EU third energy package on such infrastructure, including the Regulation (EC) No. 713/2009 to establish the energy market Cooperative Education Agency, is therefore inappropriate and does not have a reasonable relevance to the country's environment. Aren't we starting at the wrong end here, Mr. President? In other words, regulations in the Icelandic language are to be introduced correctly and to make sure that they pass the constitution. I'd like less. Senators are at the word of those who are drawn to the Constitution. The work being offered here is, in my best opinion, worth considering. History tells us that as recent examples prove, one - sided legal defenses are of little or no value to the EEA. To fulfill this point, consider what is stated by the permission of President Stefán the Már of Stefánsson and Friðrik the Árni of Friðriksson, son of Hirst: It will show up to 8 pars. Regulation (EC) No 37/2010: The 713/2009 recording of the EEA Convention and implementing Icelandic correctly as unchanged, the Regulation shall include the implementation of the European Commission to the ESA, which could be passed on by the Icelandic government. Will then be entrusted with power to make decisions that will bind the Icelandic government to national rights and will at the same time have the most important interest in electronic power companies and the user of the electronic energy system directly and indirectly. The Agency would also have a significant impact on ESA decision content. In view of the nature and input of the power for ESA, of Article 8. Regulation (EC) No 37/2010: 713/2990, the authors of the opinion team feel that they are going beyond what the Constitution says. Dive to the canal. Isn't that right? Has it not been a minister's hearing here that it is just being dressed in a chest with belts and bracelets? We're taking the safe way. We're gonna be as careful as possible. And with what? By putting ahead of warning, which we hope to hold, but for which we have no assurance. That's interesting. V.E.G. The minister wants the party of the Generals to introduce a pack of three energy with appropriate regulations, but at the same time, he will reject part of it with bad warnings and be less effective or less critical than needed. Of course, we Icelanders want to be a nation among nations. Of course, we want to participate in international treaties and trades between countries, and this has been a matter of personal interest among us from the beginning. But it is relatively new that we want to give up our independence and self - sufficiency, our resources, and generations to come. What, then, is the purpose of the work? Has anyone thought about handing over our authority over the fishing grounds or the use of fish stocks, using that in Icelandic correctly, to check whether it would remain the constitution? No, of course not. No one would think of such a thing. But why is this council proposal established? Why don't we turn down a pack of energy and send the case back to the EEA Common Committee where we have a chance to make the runoffs so that we don't get caught up, don't put our control over the resource? And why does the government in opposition to the majority of the people, in opposition to their grass roots, want to go this way? I don't have the answers, but I'd love to get them. In the opinion of the jurists, Stefán Már, and Friðrik of the Árni, we read: The EU/EFTA countries, on the basis of their national legislation in the areas to which the EEA treats the EU contract, either unchanged or adapting.a. considering the terms of the EEA Convention and the uniqueness of the individual countries. In view of this, Iceland seems closer to looking for solutions that are involved in adjusting the third energy package's provision so that they can fit into the limitations that the Constitution places on government to international institutions, such as ESAs. Such solutions would have to be negotiated at the site of the European Commission in accordance with the procedure of the 102th paragraph. The EEA Convention. One possible solution could be that Iceland should request annull from Regulation No. 713/2009 and 714/2009 overall, including On the basis that national legislation does not require electrical exchanges between countries, and therefore the above regulations do not apply to the situation in this country. The advantage of this method is that it is relatively simple and might be said that the EEA/EFTA countries would speak in single voice if such a release for Iceland were approved. Another solution that is discussed in the same report is the second solution. It reads, with President's permission: ▪ Another solution could be that a third pack of energy will be introduced into Icelandic correctly but with legal notice that its directives for cross-border structures, e.g. Section 8. Regulation No. 713/2009, without value, such building blocks are not meant to leave here. The premise of this solution would be that the third energy package does not commit to Iceland to set up infrastructures across borders, but is a decision for Iceland's custody. If Iceland made the decision to build a cross-border infrastructure, the third energy package's law on cross-border infrastructure would be rechecked and considered. depending on whether or not they fit in with the constitution. This solution, however, is not flawless.◯ We choose the solution that is defective, but we reject the other. In the government it seems that there is a political agreement to make a warning of the induction of the energy package, which may say more than many words. Maybe they don't like it. I agree with the government that our resources and future generations should enjoy the doubt. So I suggest the highest. The minister reviewed his position, took matters off the program, or reviewed the induction of a pack of three energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u48	A respectable president. In fact, I don't get a word out of it when it's stated here in the General's symposium that a large part of the current Parliament, and likely a former senator, is fighting for something other than the interests of the Icelanders. Where's what? A senator going with this? I ask, "What interests do I have?" Senator? Here we have a case that has actually been discussed by the General Assembly of the Icelanders since 2010. It has been adopted in at least three committees, and more than once. We've had the administration of these advisers, all of our leading experts have discussed the matter. And what is it? Senator that people are doing anything other than fighting for the interests of Icelanders? That's it. Besides, I'd like less. The senator says we're here in the first discussion of this synopsis proposal. So if it happened. Councilmen do not believe, nor do they trust in the comments that have already been presented in this ideal case. When it comes to a committee, members of the Parliament ask these questions. [[The president calls.]] This is exactly what a contingency is intended for. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u49	A respectable president. I'm here to fight for Iceland's interests. I did not prostitute much of the U.S. Senate to fight for the interests of others other than Icelanders. People may feel that they are fighting for the interests of the Icelanders. But the overall picture, if all is taken, is that not to be concluded. People may feel that they are wearing a bag, but that is not the case. When it comes to what has been done, the conclusion is that it has not been done enough. These experts who are currently taking place here are the very ones I quote. I'm not a lawyer, but they've written the lyrics I read here, the solutions that were available. And the defective solution was chosen.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u50	A respectable president. Just as it turns out, if the opinions of these fine experts are read to an end, this is the way they are going here, the way the relevant experts suggested. In case of a moment. The members of the council have some inquiries, and they have thought about the wording in this is a fine opportunity when the matter comes into the committee to ask further questions about it so that we are absolutely convinced that we are doing the right thing here. This is exactly the way in which you treat people. This too was held in a talk that we were going to introduce and see if this was in harmony with the constitution. We have a firm opinion of the experts and of the Generals' Committees that we believe it is. So I don't understand, a respectable president, every time. The senator's words are pointed to in such a way. I'll remind him we're in the past discussion about this fine concierge proposal. I'm going to allow me to question whether any other matter, much less recent history, a number of experts involved, many government officials, and many members of the Parliament and members of the Parliament. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u51	V.E.G. President. It's interesting to be upset about it now and again that since you're opposed to what's going on here, you didn't read it, you didn't study it, you didn't read it to the end. What I quoted in my speech is just a down report because I read it all, letter by letter. And when it comes to the fact that there has been so much work done here - and because we are in a previous discussion, we, what? Keep your mouth shut? Aren't we gonna come up here in a speech? This is the church treatment. Here, we just discuss the matter on objective terms and take the discussion here in the symposium, which is just the best subject. And it can be a lot of extra interests to introduce this energy package and connect it to base structures and cables. But then I think we should just talk firmly and walk in the European Union. Some may conclude that it is better for us to be paid for the long future. [[The president calls.]] But it would only be more honest to say it than to have a medal like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u52	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. Hv. In his speech on energy issues in Iceland and U.S.A., a candidate introduced a number of issues in his speech as a comparison situation in the United States, including the United States. to what is common in Europe? If I understood why. A senator right here is where we live, despite all the energy pack one and a package of energy two, living in a complete speciality here in many ways. I must be able to say, and it is my responsibility to defend by all means. But I understood why. So, also, in the matter we are talking about right now, we are surrendering ourselves to self - control and control over the nation's energy resources. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament: Where in this matter can we feel that we are surrendering power over our own energy resources?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u53	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question. What we're giving up is control, that's what we think of our greatest jurists. By permission of the President, in chapter 4 of Stefán's strategium and the News Committee of Friðrik Hirst: ▪ As previously stated, - and very detailed, this is the most careful that the minister found and wanted to use because other estimates were more decisive - the majority of the rules that include power production to ESA, access to infrastructure across borders and their management security. Such infrastructures, e.g. A cable has not been established here. This does not change, however, that a third pack of energy will not be recorded in Icelandic national rights unless it lasts for the constitution. Will the decision of the General Assembly to eliminate Iceland's controlled warning to the third energy package and introduce it to the Icelandic national rights to aim for the establishment of cross-border structures in this country, which under these circumstances would test the proposed power supply to ESA, particularly under the Regulation No. 713/2009
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u54	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I want to reiterate, and I'll agree with what. Senator for the previous round. on this matter, such as any other matter involving national interests, we ponder over all possible and unacceptable questions to help a committee discuss the matter further. It's just normal. But I don't know what. A senator must have entered that location. He constantly quoted from the popular opinion of scholars, Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, and Friðrik of the Árni, the son of Friðriksson. My question was to control the resources. I'm going to quote here in another memo that has a bearing on it. It's an Ólafur Jóhannes Einarsson's memoir. It says that a third energy package did not protect property rights on energy resources in Iceland or whether they are new and for what purpose. [[The president calls.]] It shows that the third energy package is in no government custody of natural resources and is referred both to as 125th. [[The president calls.]] The EEA Convention and 2 mg. 194. gr. The EU procedure contract. [[The president calls.]] It's just clear, Mr. President. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u55	V.E.G. President. Thank you for the question. The resources as they are defined today are in government custody, most of which, i.e. those that are now activated by Land activation. There is, however, nothing that forbids further activation. However, by means of the induction of this energy package, you will be responsible for supplying electricity... do you want to finish this? [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] -...at the same price for everyone. If the price level is higher in Europe than here, it will clearly be linked to the cables and electricity sold there, which could cause national energy shortages, which would lead to the need to be activated here. And that would likely be done by personal contributions. I think we should look forward to the future over four years or one terms. Let us look at 50, 100, or 300, as the Chinese do because we will not be 350,000 for all eternity. There's more of us. And the excess power in the energy system is what now? Correct me if I'm wrong. - 200 megawatts? Ari Trausti Guðmundsson may know better. However, it is not so much that it can withstand apestration today, so the requirement would be increased in order to carry a cable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u56	Mr. President. Hv. A senator asked what was before or why we should be installing the third energy package. I wonder what. A senator had discussed this at the Central Party Parliament's conferences and had been through history, how it was carried out when working on the induction of the third energy package in 2010, and then in 2014 when Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson was the minister of foreign affairs, working with the members of the Al Parliament, State Affairs Committee, Professional Affairs and Control Committees, where the committees decided that this was a reasonable task, they were prior or expanded as necessary, they were safe, etc. and therefore it was proposed to the joint EEA committee that the energy directive should be implemented. This is the situation. [[The president calls.]] I wonder what. A senator should not also direct this question into the Party of the Middle Party. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u57	V.E.G. President. Here I'm asked about and asked to give an answer to things that were expected to be done by the High Priest Class in 2010 and 2014; the Central Party wasn't available at the time. The person standing here could hardly answer for this, and even if a mistake had been made, or in any category, would it justify a mistake today? Would that justify them? Would it be justified that we would not be accustomed to such a great deal as this, which pertains to Iceland's Constitution? I'd like less. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason has a constitution in Iceland that is somewhat different from the Constitution of other countries of the EEA community. It contains, for example, in Norway and Denmark, an increase in the share would be expected to deliver certain authority sources, 3/4 parts votes in Norway or 5/6 parts votes in Denmark. [[The president calls.]] It's not like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u58	Mr. President. It may just work to change groups, then you'll gain a new past. But let's leave it in the middle. Well, maybe. When I welcome the work done on this directive, do I not agree? ' Now, what the senator fears the most, the transpiration of a cable, is assured by what we are doing in this hall today, that no sea cable repairs are involved, except by the approval of a greater portion of the Generals. It is. It doesn't matter what the president of Landing or others have in mind or what they think. We are making a decision that only by the will and support of the majority of the council will the cable be laid. That is different from what was done here, led by the then minister of foreign affairs, Gunnar Bragi, son of Sveinn. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u59	V.E.G. President. This has become a strange argument between us here and talk about switching classes. Maybe I can tell you what. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason that I was his party brother before I joined the Central Class, a class independent man--also, maybe not the party, but I miss you. [[We miss you.]] [[We miss you.]] If we're going to make this a subject here, there's no question that my fear is founded on making sure today that a cable will not be laid. Nothing's going to be guaranteed today. This is a council proposal that will take two discussions. It's not going to be for the President of Iceland, and it's not going to come to us today that the bill is going to be approved. [[There's a bill.]] And this won't get the legal value of the signature of the President of Iceland according to the constitution. Here is a discussion of what follows. I'd like to ask men to stick to the subject rather than to class. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u60	Mr. President. 14 months ago, I made my doubts about this package, a third energy package, and have worked to get it through the past 14 months. With the solution that was presented on March 22, a year after the Norwegian voted on the third energy package at the Grand Parliament, I found some solutions that have made me much more satisfied with this process that has taken place in recent years. It's that cable that's the big deal. I have to say about the whole discussion here that it's not very deep. It's an opinion. There has been more than one estimate for 24 hours. I'd like to start by asking who. Senator: Does he really think we're agreeing that we don't control the nation's future energy issues because of the way we produce our energy, what we're doing, and how we're moving our energy in this country if we were to connect with a sea cable? [[The president calls.]] And if we do not, how does the senator feel that this would otherwise affect us? [[The president calls.]] Does the Senate really think that the Norwegians gave up control of their 22nd March? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u61	V.E.G. President. They always talk about some kind of fear. It's not fear. We are just discussing things the way they are and what the consequences are. We do not necessarily have to fear it if people want to walk in the European Union and want to put things into place. There's only another kind of life there. There is nothing to be afraid of. About a question why. A senator, whether we have authority, has control of what we do. Do we decide what to do? We have this to a degree, but -- that's the big but -SA will make decisions on issues under ACER's advice on issues. [[The point is, about what?]] [[The point is: What issue?]] What issue? Well, they could be different. Should we start falsifying who they are and decide? [[Up front.]] You see, it is. [[Up front.]] What will follow is that we become part of the European Union's internal energy market and, like it, the rules apply here at the end of the day. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u62	Mr. President. Let's not reveal it a little in this answer. How different is the view of the matter evidently taken by a senator? The current level of energy package with a third energy package reverses the cross-border transport, for those linked with infrastructure across borders, energy efficiency and other objects. This is never about this institution, the ACER, coming and saying, "We're gonna activate this thing in this country, you're just supposed to activate it. You're supposed to make a statement that says five hundred to 1,000 MWs into the energy system in Europe. I've never been this far in my mind, in my doubts about this case, in many respects in the last 14 months, but if people really believe that this is the case, we're so wrong in this discussion. Senator, strangely cute. [[The president calls.]] It's just weird.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u63	V.E.G. President. It wasn't my word -- if I didn't understand what I was saying, I'm sorry for it - that the ACER decides if we're not going to work. [[Up front.]] I didn't say that before. Then it might be suggested that the followers of this case come up here and explain the warning. Why are there a warning? What are they for? What warning is given on this matter, and why are they? What are you afraid of? Why are you paying attention to basic functions? Why do you take notice of a cable? [[Up front.]] Why do we provide regulations in 713 and 713? [[Up front.]] Here, a man comes up in a pit and follows the case with the argument that a warning has been made, they've been put in on record, into the Senate resolution proposal, the bill is ready, and there will be the point. And with these officers, we'll be safe. [[The president calls.]] Safe for what?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u64	Mr. President. At the beginning of this talk, I just want to review the background of this case, in particular a package of energy one, and the consequences for the homes and businesses of the country. In this context of the letter from the Ministry of Industrial and Business since February 2001, it is advisable to consider in the context of a new power layer, which included the induction of a energy package alone. It says, by permission of the president: In the Ministry of Industrial Affairs, there is an electronic bill. It includes both the Hebrew and the Greek words translated "character " and" the Hebrew Scriptures. " The separation of competitive and mono-immunication factors in the management of electrical energy companies is laid down so that production and sale will be separated from transport and distribution. According to social obligations, electricity companies will be lifted. What did it mean that social obligations were lifted from the electricity companies? Yes, constructions in remote towns were no longer available. The European Union did not think of it, and politicians at home agreed unwarrantedly, overwhelmed by fear of respect for the government system of Brussels. No replacement was required, as was the first day. All of these energy packages have been aimed at creating an advantage for market use and then developing a personalisation of the energy first by separating the production, distribution and sale into the final holding: From the third energy package it should not be on the same hand. Then you ask yourself, " Will my country's activations be divided up and activated privately? ' Is that what they're living for? Just like the Southern Heat Institute for Foreign Residents with a shell company in Sweden. The Southnesia Heat is the largest political error ever made in Iceland, all at the independence party. Let's look at another letter, the Department of Industrial and Business letter from 20 August 2001. It discusses subsidies on house - to - house electricity. It says: The material has grown substantially as energy companies are now taking a discount of electricity for the heating of an apartment house. Then, the order of energy issues to be produced will likely require changes in these rules. Energy companies gave a discount on electrical energy for housing housing. This is where the Ministry says that it is likely to change. They were right, but they did not know what they were doing. Power companies that had reduced electricity were forbidden to do so. A fine example comes from Southnes, where overseas of the South's Gray especially provided electricity for house - to - house heating in cold regions of Southnes. A packet of energy said no. As a result, the house - to - house electricity rose by a dozen percent in this area. What did some Brussels officials do about the energy companies in Iceland subsidizing electricity to house warming in this country? We own the resource, we live here, we control how we use the resource. We were to determine how we stood up for those without a heating system. No one else. No, a big brother in Brussels had spoken, and little politicians in Iceland were afraid to object for their little life. The story is to repeat itself here at the General Assembly today, with the induction of the third energy package. Next time it'll probably be cold water. Brussels will probably start to interfere with our use of cold water. With the induction of an energy package alone, electricity in Iceland was defined as market. In our small community, this growth in energy was leading to more overcrowded and expensive systems, including by separating the processing and distribution of electricity. This led to an increase in the price of household electricity and in business. Interestingly, the left greens were opposed to this energy package here at the General Assembly and did not want to launch the nation's electricity. They can be proud of that presentation. Interestingly, though, they now support us in opening up to one of the global markets in our electricity. They were against an energy package one and two. What Has Changed? Are they pleasing the Independence Party? Do they yield to their own ideals for the Independence Party? Is VGG become a marketing group? It is of interest to examine the report with an energy package alone, especially with regard to Article 1. It says that the minimum requirement of the directive is met, but it also goes beyond the directive's requirement in some areas. Thus, in a pack of energy, we walked farther than we had to do. Is it not, then, that we may be going further than we have to do in a pack of three? If there's nothing here because there's not a cable, then why do you have to be on this? Will Brussels not fully understand it? The impact of this matter on land activation status is a big concern. Will this be the way it will be shredded and then sold separately? How to apply e.g. meeting gardeners? An energy pack of three will prevent them from getting subsidized electricity. In accordance with each energy pack, all contact between politicians with the energy sector as follows is to be violated by the market leaders and all democratic procedures banned. An over-national institution, ACER, is established by the European Commission of the Commission of Energy, with a residence in Slovenia. A foundation to be monitored for this is to be carried out. It will have a ruling authority in the issues that may be involved in cross-border trades, and it will also give instructions on how business arrangements will be conducted in the whole area. Exactly the same thing happened with a legal adjustment to raw meat import. The most important scientists are on the hold because of their knowledge and research warning of the import. Brussels, on the other hand, has nothing to do with it. The market alone is in charge. It is important in this discussion to examine different conditions of energy in the country and in the European Union. Energy prices in the European Union are high, but in Iceland it's low. There is a shortage of electricity in the European Union, but Iceland has enough electricity. The electricity market in Europe is unstable, but in this country we have a constant supply of electricity. Most important, the energy market in Europe turns to 28 countries and 500 million people, but in this country the market is very small, in comparison, about 340,000. The European Union's energy situation is therefore quite different. We see that the energy interests of Iceland and the European Union do not work together. In this country, 90% of the activation is owned by the government, i.e. The people's share. The three pack of energy means that legislation, performance and justice in energy, will be removed from the country when a cable becomes reality and it will become reality. The government's scope in this case is to ban sea cables to Europe in order to accept the third energy package. But why should the European Union's administrative authority in our small country be controlled when it must be banned? This must, of course, be answered by the government. This roundabout is done just because we're afraid we're going to be charged. Let's just try and handle the case for the joint EEA committee. It's the right setting, not just accepting the matter without complaint. In this discussion, we must not forget that 80% of the people in the country oppose power in energy matters and should, of course, listen. If we compare the benefits of a three-fold energy package with the benefits of the European Union because we bring in a pack of three, the obvious is obvious. It's the European Union's advantage that we produce this energy package. Mr. President. I see time is up. I'll continue on the next round and wish to be reassigned to the rosary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u65	V.E.G. President. It didn't surprise me too much, though it was quite unexpected, at the moment. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's farms should stay longer with a energy package of one and two than a pack of three that is being discussed here. Because it's probably where more meat can be found on the bones as a basis for his language in the first two. It's been going through a long line of reasoning. The middle class of people in this pack of energy may somehow represent a frontal or deportation of Iceland's power over its own resources. So I'd like to ask again, and will ask others if there is any cause, "Where is it found in the Senate decree of the secretary of state?" What articles involve expediting the authority of your own resources?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u66	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists and first enters what he mentioned, why I had to deal with an energy package one and two. I saw that I wanted to be reassigned to the rosary, and then I'll go into a pack of three more energy. So I guess I'll just say what I'm gonna do. A senator to listen to that subject. Energy packages need to be discussed one and two because of the fear of these substances. It's just a fact that we have to face the fact that at the induction of a energy package one and two, electricity increased to consumers, households and companies in our country. It is proper to keep in mind that the same will definitely happen. I think it is true that when a pack of three energy is created and we have a cable that will rise, because Europe's electricity is much more expensive than here, and it is more practical for the European Union to buy from us electricity. [[The president calls.]] Then it'll rise naturally, like a whale. A senator knows the demand. I'll come in like a dog. A senator asked about details in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u67	A respectable president. Yes, I will truly listen with spirit as well to the second talk. Because there's quite a lot to work for you opposers of this case to show me that it involves a release of Iceland's authority over its own resources. For if you could direct me to the chalices, the matter of the assembly, which is in its possession, I will join you. Then I'll change my mind and join them in the voter's "no." But you have to prove this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u68	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. Here, middle - class members have been accused of not reading and not doing their homework. I'd like to encourage you. A senator to read Stefán Már and Friðrik's legal opinion. It is, in fact, there. stated that from this cable - and now let's just separate it - the power package has to pass the constitution. This means that there is certain uncertainty about it. The Constitution, of course, is to benefit from the doubt. However, it is clear and crystal clear that if a company like this is a company such as this. The German electrician E.ON has technical preparations that an electrical cable from Iceland is of no use for us to protest it. It's just that way. [[The president calls.]] The matter will be in the realm of authority of the European Union. And it is possible that this will conflict with the EEA Convention on Limitations of Import and Export. [[The president calls.]] There is uncertainty about what we must conclude. [[The president calls.]] That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u69	The President is still on trial for what? The senators are worthy of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u70	Mr. President. Energy issues are part of the EEA Convention and have always been, as per its second chapter. There's nothing new about it. But what is included in the third energy package? First of all, the European Commission's work at the energy market is established that neither the Agency nor the ESA will make decisions about international relations with Iceland where we will not connect with the market unless we decide it ourselves, i.e. Here at the Council, making a special decision. Second, the energy package separates the transport system from other energy markets, which was given to us by the exception of those regulations. So it won't apply here. The focus on us in the third energy package is that the Energy Agency's independence from markets and governments is being strengthened by consumer protection as well. For example. More rights of consumers are required for information, transparency and their right to switch energy sales. It's for the benefit of the people in the country. Now I'm gonna ask you, "Sit down." A senator opposes the increased independence of the Power Agency and improved consumer protection? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u71	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Of course, I do not oppose improved consumer protection. Today's cases are arranged so that people are self-employed as to where they buy the electricity. This is already there. The price difference, however, is so small that changing power dealers does not even answer the cost or effort. I can't see that anyone improved consumer protection is following this energy package. She's already there and, as I say, she was put in place when a energy package was introduced, when the companies were divided into production and sales. And that was just one thing: the amount of electricity rose. It's just a fact. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator should study, for example. in the country's area what house - to - house expenses have increased since the introduction of a energy pack alone. [[The president calls.]] It is now all the consumer protection. A senator was talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u72	Mr. President. One thing like that. A senator entered was just how little the price difference is. It's probably not the third energy package, it's the market producers and the people selling electricity and energy. What becomes new to consumer protection, however, is more transparent to what consumers are actually buying. In addition, consumers are authorized to switch companies with a three - week notice - and thus, up-to - date pressure on their companies to stay on the mat and not raise excessive prices, making it more difficult for them to treat consumers badly. Either way. A senator feels that the prices in the market are too small or too great, but I don't understand what's going on. A senator disagrees with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u73	Mr. President. Thank you. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator is just doing the same thing. I've answered that inquiry. I know it for myself. I've had electricity and tried to change sales, and it doesn't matter. I can't cut the power bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u74	And is it the third energy package to blame?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u75	I'm saying, it's the first energy package to teach. And you're talking about increasing consumer protection in the third energy package. Which consumer protection is that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u76	That's what I was saying.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u77	It's perfectly beneficial already. You can change energy dealers. A source of energy can change. But that doesn't matter to him, for the price difference is no one. This is now the entire market area being proposed. She's so important. The bottom line is this: We live in a country where electricity is cheap and it should remain in the country's homes. But it will not be the product of this energy package. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u78	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna be in the same place as what. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon earlier. When you listened to a talk, you heard it. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, the son of Thorin, was sowing suspicion everywhere. By means of the energy package, we'd have to sell land activation, divide energy companies, we'd have to put a cable in and we couldn't handle it. The answer is what? A senator on Páll Magnússon's question was that this was somehow a violation of the constitution. I'm going to repeat the question: What does the senator have in that we have to sell land activation, divide energy companies, lay a cable? Where does it appear in this council arrangement? Where does it show up in the EEA Convention? Where does it come up above its head, boy? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u79	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. Fortunately, I did not insist that land activation had to be sold. I threw it out as a concern, whether this could be what would happen when the third energy package is created. [[Up front.]] We know it's all the same hurt, i.e. to the markets of energy companies in the country. These energy packages - and you know it, huh? Councilmen - are about the market of electricity. [[Up front.]] This is exactly the same as I mentioned by Southnesy Heat, was being found to benefit from the possibility that foreign people could thus become owners of an Icelandic energy company - and this happened and the profits of the energy industry are leaving the country. We know this. It's just as worrying as I am about this matter, that we're living in the economy, here being prepared that when a cable comes, we'll be ready to go into perfect privatization of energy companies in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u80	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator doesn't have anything to do with this, it's just a little worried about it. I might as well be concerned that the use of this energy package would reduce the number of sun days. I have nothing to do with it. This is the endless list of suspicions, wallowing things. There is nothing in this that robs us of custody of our resources, does not require us to enter this energy market. Of course, if we want to go inside, we have to play by the rules, and there are those rules. If there is a conflict in that market, someone has to resolve that difference. In our case, it would be natural ESAs, not ACER at present in Europe. [[The president calls.]] It's very normal, it's like putting matters into practice to resolve differences in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u81	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator just hit on the head when he spoke of referring to a case. Isn't that what we're supposed to do here? Why don't we handle this for the joint EEA committee? There's a disagreement on this matter in all the community. If there is such a disagreement, why be accepting the matter here? There is a guide to that, and it is the joint EEA committee. There we come to a conclusion, demonstrate our uniqueness, and receive a permanent release. The release that is now being discussed is based on chats at the highest level. Secretary of state in Brussels at the European Union's Department of Energy. This has no national significance to us, not anything. We know that well. That's why I don't understand what the board and the Controversy are, and I'm afraid it will happen to the joint EEA committee. It's a good thing for all of you, the supporters of these classes, that this will be the legal way. [[The president calls.]] That leads to a conclusion. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u82	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I believe that the senator's hearing may conclude that he does not feel that he has been well maintained by the government of the United States. So I would like to ask, and I have often been asked earlier in this discussion, but it will be interesting to hear the answer here on one more trip: The largest part of this work was done by the government during the time of the presidents and members of the other. The senator was a member of the government, the prime minister, and the minister of foreign affairs. The case was established before the council, consulted, requested to flaunt potential risks in it, and eventually decided to adopt the case in the EEA contract without any notice. That's what I'm talking about. The senator was pleased with the way his members held this case while the decision to record the EEA contract was made?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u83	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I have to say, I don't know what I'm talking about. A senator came in. To my mind, the matter has a longer history, and I quoted a letter from 2001 written to the Ministry of Industrial Affairs, where the first energy package is being introduced, and it is clear that there was no knowledge of what they were doing. That's for damn sure. It will come, for example. in one letter that this is likely to result in changes in house - to - house subsidies. Although they were not even sure about it, they signed, agreed, and entered the first energy package that had these consequences for consumers. This case has a much longer prehistoric history, so I say: There are so many doubts in this third energy package that we can't introduce it unchanged. We'll just have to take this over to the EEA Committee, review our cause there and get permanent release.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u84	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. It is true that this strategy on the joint EEA committee is available in the event of major differences. We are in that position, and it seems to me that the majority of the Parliamentary worlds are in position not to consider this to be the greatest danger the members of the Central Party claim. It may be a bit silly to intend for the first time to represent the European Commission, which the majority of members of Congress do not consider to be the limit for what the Central Party is trying to claim. I'll take no answer. A senator, on my question in a previous answer, as if he were fully satisfied with putting up with his fellow members in the case at the time when the decision was made to record it at the EEA Convention, which is why we are in these discussions here today; that payment was in good order. That's why I don't understand why it's such a problem here in the hall right now because it wasn't a problem already. A senator and his associates were in a government that continued to promote the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u85	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. We can question who said what and why people did things the way they did. It's, for example. Very interesting, then, to wonder why the left is supporting this issue. Why do they support the third energy package? Why were they against a first and another energy package? How interesting it would be to find answers to that question! Why did the Conspiracy sit by a first and second supply of energy? Can humans answer that question? There must be a reason for that. In this regard, there are some questions. One thing is set in this case, that the EEA contract has changed completely since we signed it to today. It is very different today than it was when we signed it, and it knows why. Senator. It was, for example. No discussion of agricultural matters when we were writing under the EEA contract at the time. We never expected that when we signed the contract, we would have to import raw meat through the contract. [[The president calls.]] The same is true of energy issues. It was never mentioned that energy issues would come to become market warnings when we signed the contract. [[The president calls.]] So there's a lot of things in this that have changed and normal for us to take them to the EEA committee and get results from that. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. Senator: Why was left green against a single - and - two energy package while supporting a pack of three?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u86	It's still a matter of time. Senators are worth deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u87	A respectable president. We'll discuss an arrangement to confirm the decision of the joint EEA committee, it's good to maintain it, as it is often indicated that we should refer the case to the joint EEC, from which point forward to a consultation with the World Council. A respectable president. I don't have much experience here, I came into Congress in 2016, and I have to admit that before that time, I had no particular thought of the EEA. I think there's a lot of people out there. We didn't fully understand the benefits and quality of life we get through the EEA Convention, but I find the negatives more frequent. I remember well before I entered a council meeting that it was discussed with the General as some sort of stamp pad for some rules and legislation from Brussels, just as if it ran over the General Assembly and the Council would not help but stamp and set things straight. Therefore, I feel that it is important to maintain my judgment with the Allied Parliament on this matter. This is made clear in the report by means of this fine synonym, which says, by permission of the president: A third energy pack was detailed in the consultation process on a scale of 2.g. The Council's Regulation on the Constitutional Management of the EEA. In the ensuing process, the State Department of State sent four memos to the General Assembly State Department of State, all of whom have a judicial hearing. The members of the Ministry were also meeting with members of the Parliament for the case. At the same time, memos from the Ministry of Industrial Affairs and Employment and Development were sent to the General Committees. The Federal Committee of the Council concluded its coverage, day after day. September 20th, 2016, as well as the review of the Allied Commission and Observation Committee and the Administrative Board. According to the Federal Commission of the Council of Foreign Affairs, the adjustment agreed on by the two supporting EEA Convention and is comparable to that agreed on by European Economic Monitoring Systems (ECES). In November 2014, the European Commission and the World Council Board also concluded that the implementation of a well-sized, limited, and unpredictably burdensome for Icelandic Member States was included. The General Advisory Committee concluded that adjustment is needed prior to cleaning up the EU contract. It was successful to negotiate these adjustments. Then it is held in the opinion of the Icelandic government that it seems that the country's overwhelming views of the land were being held up to the most important point of the country's history. The decision made by the European Commission on the uptake of the third energy package was further introduced by the State Department on May 5, 2017. Despite all of this discussion, and despite the opinion of these committees, we are not discussing this issue until now because of some reason that there were still serious doubts. The most skilled experts were asked to review the matter. They made a way for us. That's what's happening to us now. What does this third energy package contain? In particular, the legislation targets consumers, environmental protection, efficiency in energy companies, corporate separation and competitiveness, equal bioavailability and market development in electronic energy and land management as well as energy, fuel, heat, electrical instruments, energy signals, etc. We have an enterprise that works in this sector. In this way, you can reason that there are only considerable interests in the introduction of the third energy package. But because of Iceland's special status as an isolated system, much of what is part of the third energy package has been pushed aside and does not apply to Iceland and what we're here to agree with. In fact, I am glad that there is such a lot of discussion, for of course we should use this hall and this discussion to do so. I must admit, though, that I'm sorry about what seems to be going in many circles, words are just repeated, and I imagine that if someone sits at home watching a discussion, I'm not sure that the person will be much more informed about what is going on here. Therefore, I would like to encourage the members who may be doing so, to study the case on the Web site of the General Assembly or the Homepage of the Council where all these data are available, where all the questions that have been raised in this matter are clearly answered. I admit that when we were informed of the recording of the contract, I was not particularly concerned with many others. Now more has been discussed, making sure that the main concerns are now off the table. A respectable president. I'm optimistic about the third energy package. I'm not so worried, but I think it's normal for those who worry about it here, and then we'll take the case to a committee, get more expert opinion and comments, and we'll cover it better. As I said in a speech before, I think there are few cases that have been given as much consideration, both by members of the council, the present and the former members of Congress, specialists and officials, as well as by this case. I'd also like to add that, a respectable president, because we'll talk about our resources, the energy, that I'll take my heart to see how important we are to protect our resources. I would also like to point out, however, that even more resource would be involved in our Icelanders' intelligence on how we use energy, how we can produce energy, recycle energy, and help save energy. So I think we also need to consider looking to the future, what's going on in Europe and all over the world where innovation companies and investigators are finding amazing ways to save energy and produce eco-friendly energy. I want us Icelanders to be one of them. We already have quite a few companies and scientists who are doing amazing things in this regard. I want them to have complete access to research centres, universities and other European countries. The EEA Treaty is not only a basis for our business interests in this regard but also in cooperation with studies, innovations, and technological progress. I also admit that if I thought I was some real danger here, I wouldn't hesitate to say no. I see no reason why, so far no one has ever been able to convince me that there is any danger here for us Icelanders. I see no reason to go back to the joint EEA committee on some journey that we don't know who is. I'd much rather look ahead, accept the third energy package, and then sharpen the foreign service in the interests of the future. Maybe that's one of the things we should be talking about here. What's in a pack of four energy? What's next? What's next? That's what's going on in Brussels right now. Everyone has long agreed to this pack of three. We're the last ones. We are arguing over something Norway was arguing over over over over a year ago, and they could resolve that dispute with a statement. We go even farther than they did on our own notice. A respectable president. So I say, I'm just optimistic about the energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u88	Mr. President. I want to start my case because of you. A senator before her speech, and I have been allowed to say good things to the optimism that characterized her. There's more optimism here than that. A senator, who wants to go to the earth with care, especially when it comes to determining matters about the constitution. Mr. President. We have an excellent opinion that is full of warning words for the planned operation, i.e. falling away from the administrative notice, so to speak, will include the introduction. Regulations 713/2009 and 714/2009 and 37 par. in Directive 72/2009, there may be special problems. In view of this, Regulation 713/2009 gives special consideration to the regulations of Regulation 714/2009, which also states that the regulations of Regulation 14/2009 may raise comparable political qualifications and sources of ESAs to make legal binding decisions according to Article 8. Regulation No. 713/2009 To what extent does the solution presented here take into account these indications? [[The president calls.]] How are they taken into account in Regulation 714/2009, how will the government respond? [[The president calls.]] Does she, in general, know what these terms are?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u89	A respectable president. This, of course, is one of the most significant issues we have been discussing when we have been implementing European legislation. We set that up specifically for the financial market, then a complicated package. As I studied in my speech, the General Board of Directors and Commission concluded, when she reviewed the matter at the time, that the introduction includes a hall that is well reserved in a limited field and does not predict a significant burden to Icelandic parties. A management board concluded that this was all right. Many other experts have considered the matter, and they have reached the same conclusion. Even so, the Supreme One. Minister not to present the case until now. Hv. A senator quoted the subject of the Year of Árni Hirst and Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, by permission of the president: ▪ A possible solution could be that a third energy package will be introduced into Icelandic rights but with legal notice that its directives for cross-border structures, e.g. Section 8. Regulation No. 713/2009, without value, such building blocks are not meant to leave here. The premise of this solution would be that the third energy package does not commit to Iceland's groundwork, making a decision about that in Iceland's custody. Iceland would make a decision to build a cross-border infrastructure, including the third energy package on cross-border infrastructure. taking into account whether or not they are compatible with the Constitution. In other words, this is one of the things we're getting out of the table right now. We're not dealing with these factors right now at induction, and we're having a bit of a ambiguous. True, at the end of the sentence, these fine scholars say: "This solution, though, is not without impossibility. I'll clearly ask them who they think is the main flaw.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u90	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Perhaps that was not completely clear. I might look in several different directions than for a management and surveillance committee to consider legal matters. I'm particularly interested in the legal concept of the legal premise proposed here, that it will be answered in the opinion or opinion of any action in such advance to the responsibility and duty that we are shouldering by accepting this package. Of course, that's what this case is missing completely. Hv. A senator mentioned, if I heard correctly, that it would be like taking this into the joint committee on reconciliation. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament: What uncertainty is being done on this issue?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u91	A respectable president. Thank you. Of course, a senator for the counter, I forgot to thank him for that in my first speech. What's going on? I think, as used earlier, we have a belt, shoulder ties, and even a pair of tastes because the matter has been overt and over again. The Commission and the Commission were assigned to discuss this directive, as did the rest of the Parliament's committees. All the top experts in the Ministry have been consulted now, but I also requested that they get lawyers to discuss the matter. A respectable president. So I'm not as worried as what I am. Senator. I recommend that the case be discussed by a committee. Whether there are others sharing the concern that seems to be on tables, especially with members of the Central Party at the council, I don't know. But I must admit that as you dig more and more into this case, I will be more convinced that nothing is to be feared. There's nothing to be afraid of.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u92	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I want to ask you why. Only in the Council of Europe and the Council of July 13, 2009, a member of the European Parliament to establish a member of the European Commission at a energy market called ACER, an institution with a residence in Slovenia. The 5th issue of this Regulation shows that warnings or obstacles cannot be made. I'm going to read here, by permission of the President, this issue of Regulation which says: The Member States shall work closely together to remove business barriers through electrical energy and natural gas across borders in order to achieve the Community's targets on energy. This can't be as clear as it can be. With the approval of the third energy package, the commercial barriers should be controlled by electronic energy across a cross-border range. Then I'd like to ask who. A senator: What do you think? A senator that we can stand for a long time telling him that there's going to be a sea cable in this country? In view of this Regulation, which says that we should prevent business barriers by electrical energy to cross-border. Does not this proposed legislation cause a conflict with the EEA Convention, a legislation that will not be laid in this sea cable?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u93	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. He asks about this multi-cultural institution, ACER, who is assigned to determine the issue of national surveillance with regard to cross-border structures. If surveillance agencies in, tell Norway and Sweden, they can't get along on any sort of thing... No, I'm sorry, I'm going to take Sweden and Finland, countries in the European Union. Then I guess ACER would decide. There is, of course, one market out there in the mainland for electricity. But we are an island, and we are not connected to the continent of that material. As a result, the ACER has no authority here. If at some point someone would decide that it would be a good idea to lay a cable - we'll use the two - supporting system as agreed. So it was really not ACER but EFTA that would take it to heart. Hv. A senator asks how long I think we can stand by not laying down a cable here. As long as it is not Generalis's will that a cable be laid here, it will not be laid. I think it's perfectly clear. It cannot be more clear with the warnings we have now made. The European Union has no planning right here in Iceland. There's no power to bring the cables and suck the power from us and connect us to those who produce energy, not to a few. So the answer to this is very clear. While the Allied Council doesn't want it laid a sea cable and connected with the energy on the mainland, it won't be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u94	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator didn't quite understand the inquiry. It is simple: Is it not an obstacle? The protocol says that it is forbidden to prevent commercial barriers through electricity and natural gas across borders. Aren't we here to stop it? Don't you think it's against the EEA deal? These obstacles - or this assurances that the greater part suggests here by establishing specific laws that will not be taken to sea cables. Then comes a party, definitely, and wants to start research and lay a cable. He's not hunting this directive? He says, "This is off-limits, I can park a sea cable, otherwise you're breaking against the EEA deal. " I think this is the point. In case of a moment. A senator could answer that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u95	A respectable president. This law applies to pre-existing structures. It is clear that we are not going to build such structures, they are not there, and we are not going to build such structures. So this simply does not apply.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u96	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Haraldsdóttir for his speech. But I cannot agree with her that all the questions have been clearly answered. That's exactly why we're still here. Then I'd also like to point them out. A senator says that it is certainly not for us to convince her that this is so good. It is her job and those who follow the case to convince those who have doubts, including those who have doubts. The members of the Central Party and the nation's immensely high proportion of the country's survival has not been successful. I'd like to ask you, too. paritaprevir Mysterious Life of Haraldsdóttir's daughter, just curious because I have such doubts: Has the government made plans of some kind or appreciated it and made a plan of compensation that may fall upon the United States if a Congress resolution proposal for a pack of three will be introduced, and later it becomes obvious that Regulation 713/2009 violates a constitution? If, then, many of us were to have a reasonable later stage of view, and it would appear, would governments have prepared themselves and evaluated some of the post - Icelandic reform requirements?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u97	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. My job as well as other senators here seems to be convincing. Central Party senators. If that's how we're supposed to persuade someone, people need to listen too. The conversation yesterday and to a large extent today has repeated itself. Round and round. So here are members of Parliament, both of you. Councilmen of more parts and smaller parts, too busy talking but less busy listening. Hv. Senator. Indeed, I have made an effort to listen to the concerns of others. The members of the Central Party, who have basically stood here and held reasons against the fact that we're supposed to accept this council decree. I think we'll give careful consideration to that viewpoint at the council committee. I say, though, that as I learn more about this fine subject, I become more convinced that nothing is to be feared. The evidence and the fear that either we are here to violate the Constitution, that we are having trouble with our resources, or that we do not guarantee the national sovereignty of our resources - I am not convinced of that. We have many opinions that suggest that the introduction to this Regulation does not conflict with the constitution. There is no solid evidence yet to indicate that. Of course, I wrote like others did. Congress members under the oath that I follow the Constitution and if there is any reasonable evidence on this subject in the matter of the council, I do not doubt that we senators would change our mind or find other ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u98	Mr. President. I'll try to take to heart the suggestions to listen better. For 24 hours, though, I have done little more than try to listen. I've expressed myself a little, but most of all, I've sat and listened. It's just that I haven't been able to destroy the value of my heart, and I think it's a big thing that I think it's normal to keep reasoning on it until I'm convinced that I'm not yet. As a result, Stephen's group of Árni's Friðriksson and Friar Friurkson of Hirst according to Regulation 714 have developed similar government opinions and directives 713/2009. It has been shown, and it was done well earlier in a talk. paritaprevir Jón Þór, the son of Þorvaldsson, suggests that the experts suggest and point out but choose others. It is, of course, very special. This has not yet provided sufficient explanations. In that case, there will be a seizure. A senator accepts that I keep asking.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u99	A respectable president. I'll accept that. A senator continues to ask because we are in this very room to discuss matters and to analyze them. Hv. A senator referred to a panel of experts that have been discussed much today. Yes, it points to two possible solutions, one meaning "No " and brings this matter back into the common committee. And then I mean again because we here at the council have said it's okay to film this on the contract, and that's why it was done by the joint EEA committee. However, that is the way this is going. That's the best way to go. Secretary of state has made a bet. That's the way I'm going to lean on it until we find another way. Because the other way that they call it, I don't know what it means. A respectable president. I have no idea what it means to go back into the joint EEA committee on this matter and say, "No, we're not quite ready. Now we just want to pick out the chocolate box, that sugar, not that sugar. I truly stand by that we are part of the EEA and that we are on that deal. This is part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u100	Mr. President. It has been interesting to observe the discussion that has developed in this country on the effect of the third energy package that we are finally dealing with. As mentioned in the discussion, it would certainly have been more understandable when the first energy package was discussed, but there were much more extensive changes in energy output than will be with the third. In fact, an increase in energy prices has been reported in the country following the approval of the previous energy package, but as reported in the Iceland Economic Institute of Economics, the effect has been more likely to reduce the price of price since its acceptable package was adopted, at least contributes to the rise of prices in accordance with prices, just to be seen. The third energy package is aimed at completing the European Union's internal energy market for natural gas and electricity. The internal energy market is aimed at improving infrastructure, promoting competition and lower energy prices and, of course, one of Europe's original objectives, to ensure European energy security. The third energy package also has a connection with the 2020 targets, as well as an emphasis on the authority of the client. Energy packages in the European Union have provided some guarantees of increased and general consumer protection and increased energy translucency, and there are interests that can't be minimized. In this way, the Energy Agency, through the induction of the third energy package, receives additional monitoring roles as well as a stronger and clearer authority to demand improvement in behalf of consumers. The discussion might conclude that this was a brand - new case that had not been discussed before. However, as noted in the synopsis Directive, the General Assembly is to be informed about the contents of the third energy package regularly using memos starting in 2010. Thus, in October 2014, the employment board concluded that adjustment was needed prior to the EES Convention and was able to negotiate the adjustment. Then, in 2011, ACER, a member of the energy market organisation, officially began to operate, and has been active for eight years. The role of the Agency can be explained in short terms that it should ensure the best use of the common transport systems of energy between EU Member States and energy security. You can be sure that at last week's annual meeting with the Power Agency, and I hope that he forgives me for his name Alberto Pototschnig, the acting director of the ACER, business and came in contact. to increase co-ordination in energy distribution from the time ACER took place has increased the efficiency of about 1 billion euro per year. However, ACER's activities are actually limited to Icelanders, even if they are laid sea cables, and unfortunately we are not members of the EU and hence not members of the ACER. The role of ACER is set out by the EFTA, ESA, against EEA countries. But, like other European institutions, the European institutions will truly cooperate with the Agency. There is also the fact that the authority of the Agency, i.e. ESA, only in this situation if the surveillance authorities, the countries itself, failed to come to an agreement on the accession of enterprises to countries, act as a sort of crime. Some have expressed concern that ACER should have an opinion on the results of the EFTA monitoring facility and may even write down some decisions, even though the procedure will be conducted by ESA. However, the opinion of Skúli Magnússon at the University of Iceland's School of Laws points to the fact that ESA has no power against ACER's proposals and that it is handled according to the 111th grade. The EEA Convention, in effect, means that no decision will be made except by the approval of all the EFTA countries of the joint EEA committee. On the contrary, it is clear that formal decision-making is in the hands of the Agency. Even if this is the case, I reiterate unless there is a cross-border bond between our electrical system and if there is a dispute. Madam President. In short, and in English, neither Norway nor Iceland will fall under the authority of the ACER. This was also made clear in the case of the acting director of ACER at the once mentioned annual meeting of the Energy Agency. If Iceland is ever connected to the European energy network, which can, of course, happen and if there were a dispute between Iceland's surveillance agency, i.e. The European Energy Agency, which would probably be Britain, which is trying to get out of the EU, would lead to EFTA monitoring and not ACER. Madam President. If it's about sovereignty and constitution, then the EEA contract was not to be agreed initially. It is exonerated to ESA, and it has been for 25 years. The only purpose here is to hand out specific sources to the state itself during, for example. The European Economic Guard faces both agencies, legislators, and individuals. It was approved by a chamber without hesitation and irreprehensibly, including the current members of the Central Party, who did not even see reason to address the issue at the time. In fact, something remarkable, it was members of the United States and VG who made comments back then. Otherwise, I've been thinking about what it is so dangerous with other countries that we're always putting forth some effort and other countries are putting up with something else, usually something we live in. For a small country like Iceland, it can be said that getting legislation in such a way as to get ready through the EEA deal is a little bit like getting a ride with a fully equipped car with a used driver who's on his way. We can talk to the driver and affect the direction to a degree, and we certainly need to set up a gas coin, but if we don't like the destination or the driver's license, we can request that the car be stopped and we take the position. The above - mentioned Skúli Magnússon comes in just right at this point in his opinion, with the permission of a president: Therefore, it is unfortunate to discuss the traditional office of the state and may create the false idea that the state's sovereignty is in some way less or less expedient. In fact, the magazine can be turned around and claimed that it directly leads to a state of sovereignty that it can participate in international cooperation (with other sovereign countries) by assigning restricted authorities to the international organisations in its territory. For the same reason, the establishment of authority in its nature is also always reversible, even if a treaties are not expected. In any case, the national commitments of the sovereign state will, in other words, always be the last word on which the law applies to its territory, how it is carried out, etc. Madam President. According to European legislation and energy experts, there will be no major changes that will follow the approval of the third energy package for us Icelanders. In the United States, experts believe that the third energy package is not used in any government authority to ban possession rights on government resources owned by public property or the right of Iceland to decide on the conditions of the country's energy resources and what energy sources are being used here. The fact is, none of the third energy package opens up. It has been claimed that with the third energy package, the sea cables will be opened without anything to say about the Icelanders or the state. First, it is wrong and is even wrong. Special attention was given to Friðrik Árni of Friðriksson Hirst and Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, who has been very popular at quoting. Second, it is quite clear that a third energy package is not about energy efficiency decisions nor in any way about property rights to energy resources in Iceland but only about transport and trade with energy. Thus, a third pack of energy does not include the obligation to fix a cable or a duty to allow it. Third, land activation is 100% owned by the state. Clearly, land induction does not make a decision without the administration of the State through its rulers. Besides, land activation does not have funds to carry out the same task as the sea cable, except the government's access. Fourth, the travel, industrial, and innovation ministers have provided a bill for seating belts and shoulder ties and yes, taste pants on it and conditioned that no sea cable can be provided without the approval of the General Assembly. Fifth, there is a organizational authority in the hands of the Icelandic government and no one can build constructions in Iceland without the permission of the local community. Madam President. Clearly, the debate that is now taking place is a demarcation and is, unfortunately, just too easy. It is understandable in some ways because we all love our country, and especially our resources, and because these concerns with Iceland's energy resources, it is easy to dust people's eyes with the wrong information. Similarly, while we do not receive a new constitution and thereby ensure the possession of the resources of the country in the hands of the people, it is too easy to be afraid of such a case. Obviously, we need a new constitution, and that's what we are at the Group of Congress ever ready to discuss, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u101	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. First, I'll go for a ride. A senator said earlier that the discussion was a people's business, and I think it is. A senator needs to clarify what it means by explaining that in our media, we have emphasized that a state of uncertainty about whether the case is a constitution, i.e. If there is any doubt that the matter is a constitution, it would probably be to present it here and more than probably, that's necessary. I don't quite understand the tone. A senator in this regard, if she wanted to explain it further. I've been doing my interviewing the effects of the first and second energy packages on consumers in the country, an increase in electrical prices, and the removal of the community part from the electricity companies, i.e. avoiding building - heating electricity in remote areas and the expense of building electricity to remote areas. I think there's some very good logic in this case, and I'll show you how afraid the steps are when it comes to the third energy package. So I think that's why. A senator must explain. Besides, it's interesting that the Conspiracy was sitting at its time at the drop of a first and second energy package. It would also be interesting to have the answer from what source. A senator why the Conspiracy was with him in its time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u102	Madam President. I'm really sorry if I've hurt my feelings. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin, but the fact is that the discussion of this matter in the community, and unfortunately, in the public language. The members of the Central Party have been quite crooked. There are no facts to establish any concerns. Congress officials have tore up their case. On the contrary, things have been brought up in the conversation that are up to the wrong, at best, wrong, which I find very boring. So I do not hesitate to call the discussion, especially as if it has been out in the community, people's jars. Hv. A senator asked why the Conspiracy had sat by when the first and second energy packets were to be paid off. I introduced it at the beginning of my speech earlier that significant changes were made in the environment of the electricity system in Iceland. There was certainly reason to pause and wonder what was going to be agreed upon. It wasn't done back then. Now I've read this package backwards and forward, and I just don't see anything to indicate that we should fear it or that it involves anything like the changes made in the first and second energy packages. But they're not being discussed here, they've become valid, and here we deal with the third energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u103	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I have to protest for what it is. A senator said that the presentation of the Middle Class is high, as it put it. It's so wrong. Senator. I'll just ask them back, then. Senator: Is it foolish to be concerned that the internalisation of this energy package may not meet a constitution? I have to say, I don't know exactly what to do. A senator is considering this matter. I object. We've been tracking this into business. We have quoted the legal opinions of lawmakers and have shown that this energy package is extremely uncertain, and it is perfectly normal for the situation to be carefully discussed. Of course, we should not accept an energy package of so much uncertainty and that is what we middle-class people have stressed. It's just a legal thing to do. We say no here, and this will lead to the EEA joint committee, and there it will be discussed, and we will reach a conclusion that will hopefully be acceptable for us Icelanders. I just want to add this to the fact that the EEA contract as it is today is quite different from what it was when we signed it at its time. And former secretary of state and chairman of an officer, Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, has said that in leading up to the European Economic Area Convention and in the Convention itself, a common energy market has never been discussed. Nor was it ever discussed that we would have to open the land to unheated meat. Counts 'em out. This isn't an important entry into this discussion, that here are just other grounds, here's just another deal but agreed in the beginning? [[The president calls.]] It has your former chairman, the chairman of equal officers, confirmed, and he knows this case very well.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u104	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. He introduced exactly what I was referring to the concerns and reasons for anxiety. There are now a number of opinions available, and I don't think any case has been so much discussed and prepared at the council as this. We have opinions, e.g. From Davíð Björgvinsson's Þór, who believes that there is no doubt that ACER's authority does not conflict with the Icelandic constitution. According to the lawyer's report, Skúli's son Magnússon's opinion is that the result is that the expeditation of authority through the introduction of Article 7, 8, and par. European Regulation (EB/713/2019, in accordance with European legislation. So you could continue to count. It may be appropriate to quote one of the countless opinions that slightly question this - in fact, no more than the change made by an industrial minister's bill has come to their attention - but we should listen to the jurists who are at ease. Senators are saying, we're supposed to listen to everyone, not just two. About the EEA contract and the development on it. If we want to discuss the EEA contract and tape it, we should discuss it. We don't do that here on the third energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u105	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I noticed especially that I am probably one of those who get a stamp for being a people's jar. I don't like it at all. I feel that way about the person who says so. I noticed in a talk a lot. A senator says that the ESA has decided to deny the power of decision that comes from the ACER Department of Energy. My question is simple: When has ESA applied this denial?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u106	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland for the Question and the reflection. But with regard to the inquiry, it has not been tested in itself, as is the case as still approved here. [[Up front.]] But it has not yet been tested in other matters. It's just that my sources haven't revealed it. I'm not an expert on European legislation and European rights, but according to my sources, this has not been the case properly yet. But that may be true in the future, and there is no indication that consumers do not. No one has questioned it, as far as I've seen it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u107	Thank you. A senator for the answer. Everything should be based on fact and logic and the one great truth, and all of us who want to know more about it are demilitars or worse. We're also Populists, and even those not even at the council, which I don't quite know why should pop it up so badly. [[Up front.]] Then I'd like to point out that we may be able to talk about ESAs, who have a negative against ACER, like that. A senator came on, which might be compared to 26. the Constitution, where our President has decided to say no. This is precisely on the basis that ESAs will use this denial if necessary. But so far, the fact is that ESAs are almost identical to the EU types - somebody said it wasn't right to call it a plunger pad - but they're actually in the process of stamping what comes from ACER. It's as simple as that, to be said.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u108	Madam President. Thanks again for the answer from what? Senator. I agree, I'm celebrating this discussion. I think she's kind of fun. I feel like we're finally discussing serious fundamentals and having some opinion on basics. On the other hand, because we have responsibility toward the nation, to the people, it is extremely important that we treat them properly and that we do not detract or give what is right for our cause. I'd like to call attention to something. Senator on the response of the Foreign Minister to Óli Björn Kárason's request on the EU energy package, the Union's security agencies and the EEA Convention, which was distributed yesterday, if I remember correctly, as it was the day before yesterday. Hv. I'm sure the senator will excuse me for going back to the previous question, which is asked: Has ESA refused to accept the recommendations or directives of the EU monitoring agencies? If so, what matters, and why? It clearly states: There have been no cases where the facts are in the way described in the question. It should be noted that EFTA is independent of its jobs and does not accept instructions from others. ESAs are therefore not accepting recommendations or instructions such as Member States There are agreements between ESAs and ACER in this issue before any decisions are made. So I don't think there's anything to be afraid of.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u109	A respectable president. The European Economic Convention, as I shall see below, referred to as the EEA Convention on a quarter anniversary at this time. It was signed in 1992, and it went into effect in 1994. I sense some hide-and-seek about the facts, something that is going on at the high Council on the energy issues, but not long ago, the debate was mainly due to the fact that it was said: Well, we are really forced to agree with the third energy package because of our involvement in the EEA Convention. But now they know better. And most of them seem to have stopped trying to justify the induction of the energy package on that basis, which is, in effect, a form of coal, to the point of not saying the least, not meeting a few opinions. It is clear that our energy resources and their markets were in no way, just no one, cut into the EU internal market when we made the EEA deal at the time. In fact, it did not really happen until the introduction of one of the energy packages that the energy was defined as a product and, at the same time, fell under the so-called Four Free Freedom Code of the EEA Convention, i.e. Free flow of goods, services, people, and funds between Member States. It was at the very time when the European Union's energy policy had become quite clear. In other words, the EEA Convention as it was made in no account of a common internal market in energy sector. So it is key to the European Economic Convention that all Member States have an unambiguous and unsatisfactory right to reject legislation in a designated field. For this reason there are examples, not one, not two, but many. There are no relics. That's a contract right. It's as simple as that. What, then, would happen if governments reject laws? What happens is that the State will simply give up rights in the area it has been rejecting, just as it does not take on any obligation regarding that matter. This needs to be negotiated by the joint EEA committee. With regard to energy, the thing is simple: Iceland is an island in the Atlantic. We have very desirable and valuable energy resources. We have enough energy that is mainly renewable, and we have managed to keep it in such a way that consumer prices have the lowest known ones. We have no connection to a common European energy market. That's a fact. None. In order for that to happen, you will need a cable. Then comes the big question: Why, since we have no contact with another market, is it so important for us to introduce a legalization of a common internal energy market? Why, since it is absolutely unnecessary and does not matter to one person? Why would it matter to our EEA meeting if it's not our goal to put a cable? Is this the most necessary thing the Council is to deal with right now; to introduce some law that we receive in the mail, which does not involve Iceland, which has no connection with, which is absolutely unnecessary if you believe in the third energy package? Then it won't change anything. It is understandable, based on European opinion, that they want to establish a common energy market between Member States, as is the predominant lack of energy, simply energy crisis in some parts of Europe. Their main energy production is burning coal, gas, and oil. In Iceland, there is enough renewables, environmental energy. We need to think about the main points. We have to watch the big movie. The point is: Why should we ever stress the idea of implementing a law that has nothing to do with us, but surely the consequences of the future? There is no objection. It's clear that the EEA Convention is giving us the right to reject this energy package, whether it's right or not that the Allied wants to take advantage of it. We have no clear right to adapt the EEA agreement to us in terms of our interests, but not the other way around. We also live by the fact that our unique position in the EEA agreement is generally recognized, that because of our small size we fall below the definition of being classified as micro-king. A respectable president. Now I will turn my song into a cross, and I will look back in time. I'm coming to the Hall of Congress on March 22, 2017, where I'm at the highest level. The minister of finance, the current chairman of the Independence Party, answers an unprepared inquiry. paritaprevir Þorsteinn, son of Víglundsson. And it must, in effect, be counted as quite different from the position we have today, in view of the resolution made by the Independence Party meeting at its last national meeting, based on the opinion and direction of those at the highest. The minister of finance, chairman of the Independence Party, made this clear in a public speaker's office on March 22, 2017. The head of the Independence Party of the General Assembly says, by permission of the President: ▪ When it comes to such a matter at the General Assembly, the last word is: It is the priority for men to do in the European partnership work, that they do not have the administrative warrants to commit Iceland to the bargaining table in Brussels, without the arrival of the General Assembly. That's the main thing about the warnings. So why are we going to accept the third energy package? What's on the drawing table? The cable? Where's Illenk all right now? By permission of the President, I will continue to refer to the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance, chairman of the Independence Party, saying: ▪ So let us consider what we have to do on the inside market of Europe to deal with electronics that are monotonous in Iceland, Brussels. What do we have to do with talking to other EU countries electronic energy cases off the island of Iceland? Is it a direct concern of the inner market when there is no connection? And it goes on to the highest. Secretary of finance over a year ago, with President's permission: ▪ What I have so hard to understand is interest. A senator and some of the members of the council are expected to submit to the invitation of the Common European institutions. What on earth is human beings bent on getting under the European Common Electrical Institute of Energy in our isolated country by our own electrical systems? Why on earth are people interested in ensuing the invitations of these institutions? Clearly, there is a difference between us here. A panel on whether we are European or not. Whether or not we want to stand outside the European Union. Whether we are content with the development that has taken place in our affairs, because when the European Economic Convention was made at the time, we were led to believe that we would always be in the so - called two support systems, in the system that is not entirely the European Union, since it is called a three - supporting system, although most of it is the case. And, with the President's permission, because we're getting it over with, I'm just going to finish it, because I really respect it as the highest level. The head of the Independence Party and the minister of finance spoke here in a pit about a year ago. I just can't understand in any way why the situation is the way it is today. And he saith unto them, ▪ Do you really believe that since the European Union has already been able to establish Iceland into some European institution, there is reason to go further? And go ahead, with President's permission: I think it is so fundamental that we define the internal market issues that we would particularly like to handle under the EEA Convention and what are issues that are not directly related to the internal market. Here we have a crystal clear example: Iceland's electricity is not internalized. There is much to say about how we approach these matters. But there is also much to say about us if we are trying to throw dust into the people's eyes by saying that those who speak the language I now speak are kicking some dust. The only thing we're talking about, is that we don't have to introduce something that people say is irrelevant, that it's simply more objective to refer to who we are, where we are, where we are in this contract that we did just 25 years ago that led us into the European Economic Area and enabled us to bring our products into the EU's open inner market.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u110	Madam President. I think it would take me a great deal of day to swerve all the false records in this speech. So I'm not gonna do it. [[Up front.]] Still, I want to appeal to it. A senator as a lawyer, because she has studied Europe maybe a little more than me. That's what's in 2nd. 103. g. of the EEA Convention. There is a time limit for what will happen if governmental warnings are not lifted - and it is up to six months. So, on May 5, 2017, the third energy package was approved by the joint EEA committee, and it certainly has been six months. According to this article, if I understand it correctly, the decision will take temporary value until a government - oriented comment is made. Then, some melancholy thing takes about a month and some mecaseism in the 5th. 102st. The EEA Convention on how to resolve. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, since she's probably better at the EEA deal than I am: how does this mechanism really work? Since it is so certain that we can refuse this and that it would return to the joint EEA committee. It seems possible, if I understand this correctly, but I don't know that it ever was. Can she explain to me how this actually works, especially 5 mg? 102st. The EEA Convention?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u111	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy for the query. Although I am now powerful in Europe, I don't have the law in front of me and I don't know anything about it. .............. A senator points in. But at least I can teach him that we have a unique position towards the European Economic Convention and the European Union as a nation I referred to in my speech earlier. Well, my time isn't that long that I can start taking what I want. A senator in a class of European rights, but it seems like he could use it. But what we are referring to, repeatedly and forever, is exactly this: We have a gift that we have received. There are precedents that through the joint EEA committee we have asked for our special status. They have generally been well received. It's, for example. there's no chance we'd have to build a canal here. What should we be building train tracks for? Or are we here with an exception also to gas and such? These exceptions all hold and have definitely been made to go the right way. We're starting here on the wrong end. First, we need to apply for the release that we do not need. Sadly, though, it has been our tendency to shoot first and then ask.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u112	Madam President. In fact, now the railway command is one of the ones that stands out for us in the EEA right now. But I asked a rather simple question, and I'm the natural reference to the 102nd paragraph. The EEA Convention. When he's done with the case. The whole question of whether we, in any way, can refer a case back to the European Commission is not quite acceptable for people not to know exactly how that mechanism works. With all due respect for what's happened. A senator must be absolutely fundamental in this discussion, if his objective is to do so. The senator's refusal is that there is some understanding of what exactly happens in that case. It's kind of ridiculous, and it's pretty ridiculous that we're at the point where there's something that's never been done before in the history of the EEA, actually telling us that somehow we're going to drive into the ditch and hope for the best, without being fully aware of what happens in that case. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u113	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, it would be a great pleasure if we were to do so. A senator examined the meaning of a man who was talking about himself. It wouldn't be so bad, would it? If you fall into a ditch, a Smári bit, I promise I'll catch you if I'm anywhere near it. The fact is: Hv. A senator refers to the inquiry first to a deadline, six months. It's been over two years. Oh, my, what happened to us? What was the punishment for it again? What is this pressure on us to run this third energy package right now and for whom? Is that for the forward line? Is it because our resources are being sold within the country? That we're selling power rights on farms all over comfy soil? What for? What are billions of dollars for buying into our energy resource? Is that not because of the future? I would have thought so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u114	A respectable president. There's a lot of extradite here. I'd like to keep it that way in two ways, on the other hand, on the separate side of the country, and on the other hand, in terms of the transvestite cable and the international communication. I'm just going to ignore it because we don't have a sea cable and we're not interested in getting a cable, it's useless to get that cable. But if we bring in this third pack of energy and start asking for some of its special provisions, beyond the gas proposals that we have given us an exception, why should we get access to them, e.g. consumer protection, increased transparency and independent monitoring or these increased demands for separation between production and distribution? Because, in the end, it is the three elements that the third energy package adds to the current position. We're not talking about the first and second energy package, we're just talking about what we add with the third energy package. What's in it, of the things I listed, of consumer protection, transparency, independent surveillance and increased demand for separation between production and distribution, that we need to receive an exception?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u115	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Leví Björn for the inquiry. He's talking about what it is we need to get an exception, a consumer protection, the separation, everything that's there. That's where he's refering to an energy package one and two. For example. energy pack two, it's him who made us have to split up here and bring Landsnet, where we actually had to separate the distribution from the production, where we had to keep an eye on seeing that our third largest energy company has come into the hands of foreigners and was investing in HD Power for 37.5 billion now just right at dawn. What is key to this when we are talking about what the third energy package will do: The third energy package is to attach us precisely there. This is the first step, or the correct third step, toward the thing called "sharing here, the third step of five. The hot dog was big. She had to be cut down. There was no way to stuff it into us in one piece. The sausage theory is very relevant here. We'll take a bite, we'll swallow it all up, and before we know it, the sausage's gone. There will be no turning back, more honorable president. It is a key in the EEA Treaty that all Member States have unambiguous and unconvinced right to reject legislation on a specific subject field and, if so, when we have submitted it to the joint EEA committees, which I have no reason to believe would not take our case well, is only what one says: Why do we not start at the beginning, honorary president and then. A senator, and to determine for the joint EEA whether or not there is any requirement for our agreement to the European Economic Area to put us under this third energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u116	A respectable president. No, I was talking about the third energy package with increased demand for separation of production and distribution. It is true that separation occurred earlier, but there are increasing demands in the third energy package. I'm just talking about these extra requirements. Do we need such increased demands to be granted? Do we need an exception to the transparency and independent surveillance? Do we need an exception to the consumer protection that comes with these packages, not to the first ones and others? They were spoken of differently. Now we're talking about the third energy package. In addition, where the dog is. A senator came onto the sea cable: We can now lay a sea cable. There is nothing to prevent sea cables from being placed - beyond those added in the third energy package. It would be the exact same process that would have to occur, that is, the establishment of the government and the International Assembly. What's to be added with the third energy package? Nothing would happen. It would be exactly the same process. We'd have to say no here at the council to stop the bellows of a cable. Because putting a cable with everything that goes with it, the cost, the extent of it, the question of where to activate, and whatever it is: It's just bullshit to go into it. I completely agree with that. But there is nothing that the third energy package adds to the existing arrangement that requires us to place that cable, no more than what we would have to do otherwise. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We'll just say no here. [[The president calls.]] The case is dead.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u117	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator responds, and I apologize for the fact that I was not clear enough what is involved in this increased separation of what is involved in the second and third energy packages. There is, of course, a particular concern that leads us to the fact that, for the most part, we have our excellent energy and land induction, which we have. A senator knows. This third pack of energy comes to cause exactly what we saw when Hagar went to trial the State in its own time of import because we thought we were completely loyal to the EU Convention that we didn't have to import anything. Now, it's exactly HD Energy that says: "Hey, Land induction is way too large in the market. " When do we get that case? Nationalization is way too large. They're selling it from us. This is a part of the privateisation of land activation. They're going to stand it down. They're gonna chop it down, they're gonna sell us all the energy here and there in small doses. The Pylon theory is turning itself in here at Europeanist members of Congress. Period and bottom line.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u118	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæland Howil for the speech. I think it would be fine in this discussion to make sure that the subject we are discussing is regularly made up of. We'll talk about a council proposal from the highest level. Secretary of State looking for the authority of the Generals to confirm the decision of the joint EEA committee. Hv. A senator spoke a lot - and I state that we have a previous discussion. you will consider questions that will support the discussion of the committee - which included into it why we're doing it all together. To keep the facts in mind, I will try to answer that big question and point to the highest answer. Secretary of State asking from what. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason on EU energy package. That's where the question is. Senator: What evidence was there that the Icelandic government decided to introduce the first EU energy package? What evidence was there that energy markets in Iceland were to become part of the internal market? Of course, this is a big question, and it is very important that we keep this in mind. A respectable president. The answer is here: Energy trade rules have been part of the EEA Convention since its 1994 implementation. There's only been a misunderstanding about this during the discussion. And energy is defined as a product, subject to free freight transport, part of the four aspects of freedom, but both the internal market of the European Union and the European Economic Areas depend on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u119	Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson for the answer. We seem to be wondering more than anything because I didn't understand the question. But I'd like to correct one thing. This is the second time referred to in this reply from the minister of foreign affairs, which has this synonym on its side. It's his collaborator who asks him, and it doesn't work very objectively at the discussion, at least. Not on me. It shows up, if correctly indicated. A senator, that these rules of energy and common market are immediately identified in the EEA contract in 1992. That's not true. The energy was not defined as warning until we validate one of the energy packages, I think it was 2007. That's when we're getting into this four freedoms, and by trying to take the energy out of the package, we're breaking the foundation of the EEA deal that is leading to the four freedoms, just to say it's true. It is clear that energy was not defined as a warning until 15 years after we signed the European Economic Area Convention. It is similar with agricultural and marine products and other things - we were in good faith when we entered this contract and wrote it in 1992, it went into effect 1994. Then we believed that we were changing our lips and getting access to that huge inner market that was and that we are extremely important, and nothing will belittle it. But things have changed in those 25 years, and they do not see the end of that change yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u120	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. You're right next door. A senator that I was here last year in answer to keep the facts in order, it's important in this discussion. Asking questions is a matter of great interest and right. I'm only going to proceed with the highest answer. Secretary to command. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son with a written inquiry, it only confirms the case, by permission of President: The energy issues of the contract were part of the agreement, although the EU policies and legislation on the internal market of electricity have not been far in those days. Well, that's just confirmed, then. Senator. Similarly, a report on this subject is discussed. Hv. A senator, I'd like to say, gave a lot of speech. I couldn't here in this short answer go through it all and ask him why. A senator on all those occasions. But I thought it was a problem. A senator goes a long time. That's what I have to say. And I got that feeling. A senator would even want to go so far as to resign the EEA deal, which we certainly have a chance to do. Just so. So if that's the case, I ask. A senator. For expert opinion - I want to say the highest. A minister to commend him that he has prepared the matter very well. There's a lot to say about the experts, Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, and Friðrik the Árni of Fridrik's Friðriksson Hirst, since it is conclusive that the solution has gone well. Therefore, we may have had to wait for this matter to come into the council. But there is a problem, and it is recognized that this solution can work out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u121	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm still just as confused. If it really comes out in answer to the highest. Minister that we've had our energy issues below, when we signed the EEA contract in 1992, I'm going to allow me to question the answer, so to speak. Asked if I was ready to resign from the EEA agreement and the answer is yes. If this means that we have to sell away almost everything we have here and create a unique position as a small island state on the edge of Europe, then the answer is yes. I like the Swiss. They're free. They've made 128 double contracts. They're in no trouble. If this is to be so that the European Union should take care of our affairs before we enter it and we are simply trying to take the step to the full, then we are to go straight to work. We are to make that contribution to the nation, for it is the nation that deserves to be paid nationally in such an enormous case. We're just supposed to make it a point. Do we want to walk in the European Union or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u122	President wants to decide what. Councilmen, not only with the members of Parliament who discussed this last issue, but with others who have addressed this meeting in 66 C.E. A contemporaneous saying: The speaker should always depart to the president or meeting, not to address any individual member of the council. At the same time, the president of the United States wants a 72nd. Parliaments saying that no, except by permission of the president, you can read up printed material.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u123	V.E.G. President. I read the printed page myself. The program here at the High Council is now a major matter for us Icelanders, whose rights to our resources and nature of our country. This is about whether or not the so-called third energy package should be introduced. The government has worked very hard to convince us that the recording of the third energy package is not important to us because there has been no sea cable between Iceland and Europe. However, it has not been mentioned why we should take up the third energy package, except for the approval of the EU, and because we took up a pack of energy pack one and a pack of two. If a pack of energy doesn't matter to us, why don't we just turn it down? I'd like to review the recording of the first and second energy package. Energy pack one was legalized here on land 2003, and it's about electricity being commercial or market. In 2007, a pack of energy became legal and indicates the separating of electricity production and distribution. This time we're talking about the third energy package, which is said to be irrelevant. Then I repeat: Shouldn't we just reject him? No, the answer. It doesn't matter unless they say a cable is laid. All the warnings we make with a decree have no meaning. This shows experience, e.g. Like a carnivorous carnivore. Many questions have arisen, including subject to the constitution. One of those questions is: If we agree to a pack of three energy, are we surrendering our power to an international institution? Thirty-nineth. August, No. 65/2003, says: A four - year - old minister proposes every four years to the General for a resolution of government policy on the building of electricity transport systems. The current government policy on the construction of the transport system is presented in the Parliamentary decree of No. 26/148 from 11 June 2018. Consuming is the Universal Declaration of Will, which is under special treatment. Such suggestions are inferred and discussed with two discussions at the General Assembly. Testimony proposals may contain rules required for specific activities, but it is almost unknown that they contain binding rules, such as the established law. While the General Assembly approves of the synods and they obviously contain binding commands, they stand below the law. The treatment of the synonyms is simpler than the treatment of law - primary metastases. Besides, the head of the legislature government, the President of Iceland, is not involved in their sentences. There's no way the law can be changed by concierge. Court of the Supreme Court of 1943, pp. 92, it has been confirmed that individuals cannot restore their rights to Congress when there is another law. The Commission is now acting out, claiming to provide the nation's interest through the implementation of an electronic energy directive linked to a third energy package and separated by a special decision made by the Generals to establish a link to electrical transport through a marine cable. This should be achieved by the following procedure: First of all, accept a proposal that involves a change in the synonym proposal No. 26/148. This is to be added to the Congress resolution of the following text, with the permission of a president: The link between the nation's electronic energy systems to other countries through a cable is not going to be triggered unless it's agreed by Generalis. It should be agreed before the implementation of the System Plan can be carried out. The basis for such a decision by the General shall provide a comprehensive assessment of the environmental, social, and economic effects of such connections and implementation. And on the one hand: Accept correction of electrical law, No. 65/2003, which appears in paragraph 9 of par. An electronic layer that says: ▪ Regarding the link between the national electricity system and the national electricity system through a cable, the government's policy on the building of electricity transport systems is being used. V.E.G. President. What is involved in this procedure being set up in electricity laws, the same laws, and the procedure for concierge proposals every four years for the development of the transport system? That this particular government policy by resolution should be specifically determined whether the cable is laid or not. With simplicity, it can be said to be 6 mg. Count 9. Electrical layer repeats it as 39th. The same law says, further underlining that decision for sea cables in Iceland depends on the General's interpretation of policy in building a transport system set every four years. The suggestions for interest are all in the Icelandic nation, where the aim of the change is to emphasize that the Allied Council has the ultimate authority on whether to connect the Icelandic electrical power system to the electrical systems of other countries. Therefore, the proposal is presented in the terms of the public interest. If the aim is to ensure that the Allied Parliament and legislators play a key role in the decision to connect the Icelandic electrical energy system to the energy systems in other countries, then it is the lowest thing to set the content of the Parliament-student proposal into law and to ensure that both members of the legislators, the General Assembly and the President of Iceland, will come to that decision. Especially where public interest is now to be guided. However, more importantly, it is difficult to see in accordance with the EEA Convention that a national regulations can be implemented. What the Icelandic government intends to do is introduce the third energy package and put in the Senate resolution of the final power of the Allied Council by a cable. V.E.G. President. Other than that. Could it be that the State would be subject to improvement, showing that Regulation 713/2009 violated the constitution? Is there a plan on reform requirements for the United States if a Senate declaration on a pack of three is implemented and it becomes evident that Regulation 713/2009 violates constitution? It has been observed that this country does not have a cross-border trade with electrical energy, which is the power market for ESAs, in accordance with Regulation 713/2009, mainly towards. However, this does not change the implementation of the third energy package. In this regard it must be noted that laws that violate the Constitution may have harmful consequences. It does not matter in itself whether such consequences are in harmony with the consent of the law or at the later time. For example, a law that violates the Constitution may require improvement on individuals and legislators because of the damage they suffer because of such legislation. Such reforms by individuals or legislators against the United States will be brought upon them in the face of damages. It can happen in itself long after that law is passed at the General Assembly. In any case, any potential improvement requirements of this nature have been in doubt about the control-employing value of the third energy package, resulting in a non-nice rights assurance. Finally: When the General's first session at the General Assembly, the subject writes under the order of honor to the Constitution, which says: 'I am elected as a member of the Icelandic Parliament, the vow is to keep the Constitution of Iceland and my honor.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u124	A respectable president. Hv. A senator said that a third energy package is irrelevant. I can't speak for others, but for me, he doesn't matter to the exercise of sovereignty. It doesn't matter about the ACER if there's no cable. To that end, he is irrelevant. However, it does matter when it comes to consumer protection, transparency and independent control, increasing demand for separation between production and distribution, as mentioned earlier. Just as it has often been said in Iceland about the increased demand for separation between production and distribution in the milk industry or in the fishing industry, separation from road to land, and processing. What of those things? A senator wants to serve as an exception, and what of those matters doesn't matter in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u125	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. What I said before is that it's really not important is the message we've been given, that the three energy packages don't matter in any way. So I asked if we should reject him. I do not comment on what the senator quoted, I do not comment on what is in the third energy package which I think is also discussed in a pack of two.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u126	A respectable president. It's true that this is also spoken in a pack of energy, two and one, etc. Certain holes with increasing demand for separation are being filled, with increased transparency requirements and longer than previously observed by independent monitoring. What I've sensed in the discussion about how the energy package doesn't matter in any way is related to the speech given by the media. The points that the Central Party has identified as relevant to the third energy package are not relevant according to the words in the energy package itself. This does not mean that it is a hall of sovereignty. This does not mean that it is a step towards personalization. It is filled with state-of-the-art energy companies in Europe. If this were a step toward the privatization of energy companies, there should not be any state-friendly energy companies in Europe, right? That is what is meant by some amount of ◯not. The media class reporting on this energy package is not relevant, and therefore it does not have to be checked.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u127	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator. If the two elements of the energy package mentioned by the Senator are also contained in the third energy package, I don't see any need to introduce them because of that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u128	Fill in holes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u129	- Fill in holes, yes. What we've been discussing, because he quoted the members of the Central Party, in this regard are the introductions of these packages over the past few years and now, energy package one, two and three. This raises questions: What, then, will be contained in a pack of four energy? That's what we're asking about and what we want to know. I don't agree with what I've heard here, that we've got fear propaganda. We just want to step down gently. We want to guide our nation's interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u130	Me, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u131	- I don't doubt that. A senator, but we don't agree in politics, so we don't see exactly the same way. I point out that after we have received the answers that we would like to have, we may rethink the matter, but those answers have not yet come. [[Foreground on, great.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u132	Madam President. It has been interesting to observe the discussion here at the council. I want, looking at the last speaker, especially at the conclusion of his speech and perhaps the greatest opening I've heard from the Central Party here today, to want to examine the matter, and possibly revise his view of the case if evidence is presented that gives a reason to turn away only from the journey that has been a bit thoughtful to listen to. I would understand the talks being held here on behalf of those who are completely against this case if we were discussing a prince's case, such as whether it should be applied for involvement in the European Union, stay in or out in the European Union. Some have proposed that Iceland should leave NATO. Or shall we discuss the EEA deal? It's what I miss here, that we're not discussing the EEA deal as such because it eventually touches it. After listening to the talks given by opposers of this matter, I predict that in the next election, there may be a possibly a race between the Central Party and the Gang of the People for a new campaign, that they will be a national agreement to leave the European Economic Area. Then let's just take that discussion. What I missed here in a speech well - thought - out of those who have discussed the sovereignty - and I appreciate their concern about it, I agree with them that it is important to consider that the Supreme Being - nothing has strengthened us Icelanders and our sovereignty as much as it is strong, firm, and sincere participants in international cooperation. Whether it is NATO, the European Economic Area, EFTA, it has strengthened the nation's sovereignty rather than the rest. Of course, no senator's party is involved, and I claim that no political party would ever think of surrendering control of resources. Where has it been shown? Nowhere. No political party would ever think of trying to slip through some political arrangement or induction by the EEA of such a big deal. No political party. While we understand various issues and disagree with one another about what is said here, there is no political party, even this government, to work that way. That's why I missed these talks that I wanted to say earlier that we don't talk about what this case is about. This is a matter of consumer protection. This was a speech given by a firm opponent of this decree. Everything was said except consumer protection. Anything but the fact that we are strengthening consumer protection at home and the administrations as well to support the Power Institute, that it receives a stronger authority, including the Commission. to require distribution system improvements. For who? For consumers. I'd like to have respect for it if it touched someone's strings here, but people's hooks have been mentioned. I don't feel that it's proper for people to use such language to oppose other political purposes or goals. We have the EEA deal. Have humans appreciated that interest? You're going to use this kind of thing - this is a big deal, but it's not a big deal - to threaten the enormous interests of the European Economic Areas and the Icelandic Community contract, for the Icelandic consumers, producers, immigrants? People use this case to turn matters upside down. I don't think it's acceptable. That's why I'm glad that there are more people on the rosary to object to what this presentation has offered. I completely admit that I missed the front of this government that she was afraid to take the lead in the case. She would have the conviction that this was the right step. I'm sure of that after I've listened both to a minister's speech and read the language, and I'd like to draw it out and say immediately that this case is very well prepared on the part of the government. Not all cases are like that. This is the way that this matter is made, both on the outside. Ministers of the state and trade, industrial and innovation. This case is well prepared, very well informed. The data is available, and I encourage people to read the data to get the best picture of this. I missed political leadership, and I also have to say that time has evidently been used to do the work that was needed to inform the situation but also to ease the backland. We, politicians, and political leaders must understand. When the backwater is upset, when the missing communities have concluded that the third energy package is not to be introduced, political groups must have a certain amount of space to try to inform matters, in order to prove the right and the right and the reasonable aspects of the situation. As soon as I criticize lateness, in a sense, with the government, I'm not going to criticize the way she puts it because I understand it. I also understand that the members of the Independence Party, as well as the candidates of the progressive candidates, have a bit of this firm statement made by the Central Party and the Gang because they also hear voices within the ranks of the candidates and the Independence Party. The government groups were simply preparing their language, and they have done it well. I and the chairman of the United States made it clear for more than a month ago to the prime minister that we were ready, if it would ease with the government and the temporary anguish held by the government, to support this matter and to pay for it. On account of the restoration, it hasn't changed. The contents of this matter focus primarily on consumer protection and on strengthening the administrations at home and then on what we should not underestimate, which is to strengthen the energy system in Europe to do the distribution. More practical. The result? It's environmentally friendly. That must be a big deal for all of us. The European Union is becoming environmentally friendly through its directives. It matters to us. We're supposed to have opinions on this, and I hope most people have a positive view of it. I'd also like to draw it to the highest level. In turn, the Minister of Industrial Affairs will proceed, next on the agenda, for prime points that highlight what we all agree on. I can't believe it's going to all go through the council. Speaking of sea cables, sea cables, this matter has nothing to do with it, it is entirely the custody of the council and on the grounds of the council, absolutely. We've got all these issues, we've got our resources, we're in charge of how these things go. It may well be, like the highest. In a good talk earlier today, the president said that one day, the generations that follow us in a different way than we do today. We must not take such opportunities and choices from our children. We don't have the right one. As soon as I respect the presentation of those who oppose this directive, I must also say that I simply don't understand this approach. I don't understand why you can't put things straight and say, "This is a matter of consumer protection. This is a matter of strengthening the administration. [[The president calls.]] Let us take the discussion of being within or outside the European Economic Area, inside or outside the EU, in other areas and on other grounds, but do not go back into the matter and persuade people to believe something that is not true. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u133	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'm glad to hear it. A senator claims to respect the conduct of our Middle Class. The central category opposes this proposal and considers no reason to accept it, but much rather to refer the case to the joint EEA committee and to receive permanent access. Thank you. A senator for her worth our lawsuit. There's something other than the vice president of the Convention that's gone a lot at both the conference hall and on his Facebook page, where he's been saying things about us in the Middle House and calling us mobs and some other names I'm not going to mention here. Hv. paritaprevir Víglundsson has called for a more objective discussion of this subject, and we believe we have held up a more objective discussion. But at the same time, he says that the speech spoken by the Middle Class is dematerial. That's all the perfunctory discussion he's asking for here. Hv. A senator misses not having enough discussion about the EEA deal itself. I'd like to agree with that, and she said earlier that the case eventually touched the deal. I completely agree with that. At the beginning, when we became members of the European Economic Area for about Twenty - five years was not talked about any energy issues, nor was there any mention of any such problem. Agricultural issues. Now both major cases have entered the contract. I want to ask you why. Senator: Is this the same deal? [[The president calls.]] Counts 'em out. Senator that this is the same deal as we signed and introduced back then? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u134	Mr. President. Just so it's very clear, the business with energy has been part of the European Economic Area Convention from the beginning in 1994, so we are not to be surprised. We Icelanders and I have blessed with a powerful route of negotiations to negotiate that at the time, during the time, agricultural and marine routes, there was a very cold increase. when a fishing road was taken outside. At the same time, business was opened for Icelandic seafood that have had enormous significance for us. There are tremendous benefits to us that such roads will continue to be more practical and affordable than even ever have been. There's nothing in this case to surprise us, nothing. That's much more what I'm thinking about when the Central Party says, "We're supposed to get a release. " - Except for what? Necessary Protection? Because it's about consumer protection. It's about nothing else. I don't want no access from consumer protection. These endless reserves have not provided well for Icelandic consumers, who do nothing but combat consumer interests. So I don't like it if the card turns on cutting consumer protection, if we're going to talk about the EEA deal itself, and that's what I've been calling for. I like it if a reverend, whether in charge or in charge, moves to the Middle East. What we're calling for, that we go clean for work, that the Central Party will come clean and say, "Yes, we want to discuss the EEA deal and some instructions from it. I'd like it to be pure and direct but to be hiding behind a matter that, in my opinion, is relatively simple and pointed to consumer protection rather than to something else that people seem to like to believe here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u135	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. The senator is talking about consumer protection. Then it's a good idea to ask. Senator: What are some things to be added specifically to consumer protection in Iceland about electricity? Watch your step. A senator reviewed it? Today, these matters are so competitive. People, homes can buy electricity from more than one person. The exchange of energy dealers, as it were. Is this something that needs further improvement? How about what? A senator with consumer protection in this regard? Then it is plain to see that restoration is in harmony with this issue because it is a European group that wants to walk in the European Union, so it is not surprising that the category represents a lawsuit that we should accept this energy package. That's all right. I respect that statement because it's an opinion and a policy of this company. Similarly, I expect men to respect the Central Party's view of not falling apart on this matter because there may be a conflict between a constitution and the constitution to enjoy the doubt in these matters. So it is not unusual for us to be careful with these materials. And by saying no, nothing else will happen except that the joint EEA committee has to do with it. There we sit down, study the matter, and prove our point. Hopefully, then, we will receive permanent release. The secretary of state to the European Union's energy manager that we have a unique status which is accepted, is of no value to national rights. That's the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u136	Mr. President. The EEA Treaty has brought the Icelandic consumers an enormous amount of advantages and great improvement. Also, people at work with increased security. The consumer protection in this particular matter focuses on increasing the competitiveness of the electricity market and working to reduce energy prices to consumers but also on the fact that consumers can choose which of them to buy the electricity. It involves increasing resources... - Yes, and increasing consumer care. [[Up front.]] Also in this context, there is increasing the authority rights of the Power Agency to demand improvement in the public network, which, of course, is no other than for consumers. You're absolutely right. A senator said: A restoration is a European category. Why are we a European group? Why do we want to be in such valuable cooperation as the EEA? Because this has resulted in remarkable improvements and interests for an Icelandic community. I mean, the European Economic Convention is one of the most important steps that Iceland and I have taken, at least some effort to make economic progress and promise of stability, which will not change until we get another currency. All of this guarantees the foundations of our Icelanders. We are not afraid to say it. We are willing to take that up with the Central Party, a firm opponent of the European Union. All right. I fear that now that we are coming in years and years, we will hear more and more of the voices and demands of the Central Party and possibly the Stockholm people, I was heard at the head of the Party earlier, that Iceland is leaving its partnership on the European Economic Area. I'm warning you, and I'm not afraid to say that I object and that I object to it. I'd like to hear it straight, not connected to an extra issue related to consumer protection in a power market. I'd like us to take a discussion on a broader foundation than just that in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u137	Mr. President. This has been quite an informative discussion. V.E.G. A minister made an excellent introduction yesterday and then. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Flanders, Elíasdóttir of Elias, took a good look at the position of a council of the Continent on the case earlier. So I'm going to discuss other aspects of the matter, which are just as important. It is only natural for political groups that base their efforts on different ideologies to succeed. Parts are often defined or defined on a particular spectrum of colors, and much of the most commonly discussed are left and right. This, however, is a great simplicity, for politics has many dimensions, especially conservativeness and liberality, and in recent times, there is a marked conflict between isolationists and those who believe that much and flourishing international cooperation is good for our communities. Mankind is faced with an enormously complex element that can be claimed to be decisive for us and, in fact, for the future, for all living things on earth. Poverty, inequities, and wars are all the subjects that we have been dealing with for a long time, and many of us believe that increased cooperation between nations is most likely in order for us to be in charge of this. But now, at last, we face a climate crisis caused by our excess of nature. There has been quite a problem for us. And as I believe it will be difficult to overcome the first three challenges, I think it is an impenetrable way to do so with the last of them being different from that of other nations. Sadly, though, it is known that raising is a fear of foreign influences that are linked with foreign people who are living here to move, e.g. and other cooperations, exaggerating risks that we may have because of foreign food and even overexploiting what we own. We see this increasingly in the Icelandic political debate. And the last of these is the third energy package. Of course, it is, Mr. President, difficult to see the other purpose of this fear - inspiring action, which may include. The central category represents these days, but cooperation with foreign countries, including those that are being undermined. The EEA Treaty, by drawing up a faceless monster in the body of the European Union, who intends to shift all over and reach power. But one of the biggest success steps this nation has taken is, of course, part of the EEA Convention. This turned Iceland from 300,000 people into a market of 500 million people. He has created growth, jobs; defend rights and interests and security; protect the environment and invest in the future. With the contract, we Icelanders obtained the freedom to travel, live, learn, and work anywhere in Europe. All of us were enriched by this contract, the horizon grew, and society was strengthened. This free movement has also led to great flexibility in the workforce, and figures show black in whites that foreign employees who have come up in the wake - up years play a major role in the growth of the economy. Unfortunately, I have no tolerance for the rhythms I seem to be using in this matter. Besides, I don't have that for the highest court case. Minister of Ministers when he suggests that the EEA treaties in two ways, on the one hand, the national polygraphies of the European Union but on the other hand, Europeans are the ones who constantly speak of the agreement. So I want it to be crystal clear that I and others who are in favor of a good deal and that we are a party to the European Union - which can bring a quality of life to the nation and, in particular, a more stable and better currency - have the most active supporters of the EEA Convention here at the council. Mr. President. We are here discussing the third energy package, and I think it is therefore good to discuss only what this joint energy market is about, on the other hand, the implementation of active competition, transparency and consumer protection, and thus the opinions of the Icelandic electric market have revealed that the changes made, after we created the first and second energy package, have provided the consumers a better environment across what has been said here. But what may be the most important and important thing about this energy cohesion is climate, the environment. You see, a third pack of energy is also about increasing electrical security, reducing fluctuations and gorges and promoting green energy production, which is needed to cope with the tremendous threats that are hanging over us because of our relationship with nature and all mankind. An amazingly evil propaganda that has promoted it claims that by means of the energy package, we lose control over our natural resources, power prices will go up to homes, and entire sectors will even be destroyed. All this is nonsense, Mr. President. It's false news. The prime products that the Ministers have proclaimed to follow the induction ensure that this will not be the case. The fundamental issue is this: The Icelandic people will still have full control over their existing energy resources. There will be no sea cables laid here unless it is at home, determined how it would be done, and concluded that it is practical for the future. In fact, such a cord is an extremely expensive one. I think the cost's about to come up with about that. Each year, one year, the total government's total budget, and besides that, there is a number of evidence indicating that the cable would invade the country outside the European Union now that the British are on their way out of it. Mr. President. It is important that we discuss certain basics in this discussion. For example, I believe that it is vital that we place ourselves in a constitution with a resource problem. In fact, at times during a discussion of the day, we might feel that we were having our resources. We know this from the discussion of fishing resources, where salatans must not be avoided because of the forming of property rights. That is why it is very important that we place laws on such resources in a constitution. But who would the politicians be the ones who have become the most involved in that matter? However, should it not be that the chairman of the Middle Party was involved and that he stopped the work that had come into play to set exactly that law? I think so. On the one hand, it also counts who owns the largest power company in the country, e.g. Conjugation. The Conspiracy's policy is very clear. We believe this company should be owned by the government. It is all right to mention that it was the former industrial minister of the United Nations, Össur Skarphéðinsson, who had the preemptive to impose laws forbidding energy resources or share of energy companies to be sold from state and team members and these laws are still in effect. Mr. President. The number of executives has taken over the case and found that the case was in order at the beginning and those who were the kripplicists believe that in the uniform they now present, it is absolutely clear that there is no danger to the Icelandic nation when it comes to property or control of our resources. It is obvious, today and yesterday when you listen to the talks, that opportunistic politicians are trying to shift the front lines from entry into the European Union to the intention of leaving the EEA agreement. This fearless propaganda and false news against all kinds of international cooperation and development is merely designed to create chaos that uses a small gang that wants big power. And then they are seeking power for themselves that will bite on the quality of the people of the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u138	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I would judge because he said he had no tolerance for the opinions of the Middle Party. I have to say that I'm surprised to hear what I'm talking about. Senator. We are at the national legislature, and members of Congress have conflicting views. A senator just has to accept that people don't share his opinion. I wonder why. Senator. But the Norwegian labor movement fears that a third energy package will lead to higher energy prices. The fact is, when Norway was connected with a cable, the energy prices in the country increased to its homes. The Norwegian Labour Company, a group of sisters of the United Nations, adopted the third energy package with eight warnings and among them that the nation has uncrowded control over the water resource, the Norwegian government should have independent control over all energy-related decisions, the decisions related to industry and energy exchanges, potential new sea cables should be profitable and official possession of Norwegian water resources should not be altered and at least be possessing 2/3 items of public property. There are some interesting warnings given by the Norwegian Labour Party to accept this energy package. I want to ask you why. Senator and chairman of the United Nations: Will the Conspiracy sit by for the release of this case, as it did in terms of a energy package of one and two? Will the United States have a warning about the deal, i.e. The Senate resolution, like the Norwegian Engineer Party? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u139	Mr. President. It is the most remarkable area of victimism that has run into members of the Central Party. They come up here over and over again and groan at being called "peoplesmen in this matter, " when they face it. [[Foreground on called...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u140	Just be material.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u141	I did not say that I had no tolerance for the opinions of members of the Central Party or the Central Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u142	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u143	I said I couldn't bear the tolerance of the Central Party's lawsuit in this case, and there's a big difference, huh? Senator. I ask them back: Is it all more important to come up every two minutes or ten minutes and talk about breaking more of the Congress's constitution when our most advanced executives found that it isn't? It's not particularly demeaning. As for participation in the Union in a first and second energy package, I'm gonna ask for it. If you would like to have a closer look at that vote, please. In fact, many were absent, it seems to have been the worst, but there were also many who voted with it. It wasn't like whisk. After a talk, a senator has considered the matter. As for our attitude toward the Norwegian labor movement and the Norwegian Labour Party, we have a good cooperation with both parties. On the other hand, the Union has a completely independent opinion on the matter, and we have even opposed our sisters'course in the Northern States, such as the Danish party, when we have felt that they were a completely different category in affairs when it came to immigrants.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u144	Hello?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u145	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I think it's a natural question to ask if the Conspiracy intends to give some kind of advance notice on this matter. You would think that they had something in common with their sister's group in Norway, and that's where they speak from experience. As mentioned in my case earlier in Norway, there is concern that this can increase electrical prices further. The labor movement is concerned about this. As a result, energy prices were raised by sea cables in Norway. The induction of a energy package, one and two in Iceland, made energy prices rise. That's a fact. That is why it is perfectly natural for humans to ask. A senator does not have to be upset about that. I specifically checked the Union's vote on a pack of energy, and I can't see better than that the entire Union was sitting by. Some alibis were then by energy package two, it's right by the dog. Senator. So it is also reasonable to ask. Has a what? A senator, e.g. Don't you worry about how the EEA deal is developing? We see that a large and important issue has entered this contract that no one had an idea would happen 25 years ago when it was introduced. I've given up the energy issues and especially the agricultural business. Is it this way that we should accept everything that comes into this deal, all the big cases that come in, because we're involved with it, although it was meant that it would never be that way that they would be in there? It would be interesting to have an answer. That's for a senator. Then I wish I would. A senator listens to our talks with an even more positive attitude toward our views, even though he does not agree with them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u146	Mr. President. It says, in my last answer, the Conspiracy wasn't in control of this case. But it doesn't matter. With regard to warnings as we speak. So a senator asks about, leading to eight points in advance made in Norway is to say that there have been a lot of stiff and good examples in this case. It is all right to commend the government's stewards for listening and taking into account the authorities who were the most squeamish. They're on notice. With regard to the development of the EEA Convention, I would be much more concerned if the EEA treaties were not developing. We are living in a world that is on a tremendous scale and that is developing quite rapidly and through digital technology, the change to power is an incomprehensible concept for most of us mortal. That is why a large business agreement, five thousand and a half million people, must change from one time to the next. But that does not mean that we should be on guard I'm not surprised that people are afraid of each other or that. But in this matter our rights and rights of use have been tried. I think that's what matters. One of our reasons for trying to achieve a good deal with the European Union and enter it is to have a better chance of making decisions, rather than being in the position we are in right now. But it's still much better that we defend this EEA deal than we don't tear it apart. I wish for it. A senator simply comes straight to the words and talks about him instead of using this small matter to destroy matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u147	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech he gave earlier. She had set a set of entertainment values to mix with. In itself, she may not have talked much about what we are discussing right now, she talked a lot about my party, and I am happy to talk about it. A senator wants to advertise it. But his speech also discussed that someone wanted to leave the EEA area and resign the EEA agreements, and there's actually only one speaker today I remember saying, it was the highest. The president, now seated, who mentioned earlier that he was willing to resign from the EEA agreement, if that were the case. I don't remember anyone else looking at me. But because of him. In his speech, a senator respectfully spoke about the silence and mobster, I wondered if he had read the findings of Professor Friðrik's Árni Friðriksson, Hirst of Friðrik, and Professor Stefánsson Már, on page 304. Forty-two. This is what the bill says, by permission of the President: It will show up to 8 pars. Regulation (EC) No 37/2010: The 713/2009 recording of the EEA Convention and implementing Icelandic correctly as unchanged, the Regulation shall include the implementation of the European Commission to the ESA, which could be passed on by the Icelandic government. And a little later, by permission of the President, we say: ...but there is no precedent for such authority to the international institutions on the basis of the EEA Convention. In view of the nature and input of the power for ESA, of Article 8. Regulation, No. 713/2009, considers the authors to be subject to whether the power market is going beyond the terms of the Constitution under the current circumstances and the terms of the EEA Convention. Now I'm asking why. A senator: Which of these things I used to read is nonsense? And are these two scholars we've been referring to in our language today just the dematerials of the people?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u148	Mr. President. No, I'm just going to start by saying, " Of course they're not peoples, and they're not the only ones to be interested in anything but to take it into consideration. ' However, when scholars are quoted, it is also important to do the right thing, and in the end, there were four scholars who found that in this form there was no danger. And those two like a dog. A senator pleased to quote, say, once the case is settled, with the permission of the president: In this way, the administrative issue is set aside and the Regulation is introduced on the grounds that its regulations about transporting electricity across the border are not relevant and therefore not of practical significance. This means, in effect, that their values depend on certain deadlines. The premise of this solution is that the third energy package does not add to Iceland's obligation to establish ground-to-border structures. Rather, it is a matter of choice in Iceland's custody. So many were their word. The results of the words must be considered, but not merely from the opinions itself. Hv. A senator also spoke of my subject as having a certain value of entertainment. That is fine, though he may now have used it in a disparaging way. I was sure about anything but the energy package. But I talked about the basics, that's the ownership and who's carrying Icelandic energy companies. But he also spoke of the subject as being a subject of substance. To that end, I can do so little, and I apologize for not being able to give as meaningful talks as the members of the Central Party have for the last two times they've been standing here in question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u149	V.E.G. President. Then it laughed with a bruise. I can assure you what. I can get him a copy of what I read from these results. There's one thing. I'm not talking about sea cables, and nobody's talking about cables.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u150	Why?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u151	It's talking about the loss of international authority over prices and other important things. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he considers no chances of not setting serious warnings on 7th, 8 / 9 pars. of Council Regulation (EEC), No. 713/2009, what Stefán Stefánsson, Professor emerius, and Friðriksson Furksson Hirst, are talking about on page 6. 42 and 43 in their polls. Although it has been turned aside for a while, as they say, because we are not going to be connected directly by means of a cable, it is not what matters. The important thing is that they talk about that, if 8. Regulations 713/2009 will be adopted and introduced correctly in the form of the following: The Regulation shall include the implementation of the European Commission to the ESA, which could not be passed on to the European government. I'm just gonna ask you again, "Where's the mob in this?" Where's the bullshit? And it's not right for us to listen to our most skilled experts like a whale. In fact, did a senator suggest in his speech earlier? I don't see any of these findings as a buffet, that you just take what's good. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But I say, How shall we pass by this warning, why? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u152	Mr. President. It's exactly the problem with yesterday and today's Middleclass lawsuit that they have adopted the sentences unconcerned from the figure of two extremely difficult scholars who were most concerned about the six available as indexes; four of them were unconvinced, not worried about this, but these two gave reasons for the government to sit down, put four primes, and they have given their opinion on it, at least [[The metals.]] Stefán Stefánsson, that there is no problem with accepting the case. With regard to national institutions, it is certainly true that such institutions can be resolved. This is often done in the face of controversy. In this case, we are based on a two - sided solution that is either ACER, which we shoot to ESA. So these two parties have six months to come to an agreement. It hasn't been put to the test. I don't know what an arrogant concern is. A senator is involved in dealing with other people. I think it's just as certain as we're standing here, and we're sitting here that without it, we're not going to be fine, OK? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u153	Mr. President. The matter we're discussing here, to rid the administrative notice of the third energy directive, clearly causes deep feelings in the hearts of members of Congress, as well as in the general population. I am among those who had considerable doubts that the right course was to lift the control ship's notice unchanged. There were many things that concerned me later in my talk. I think it is safe to state in general when it comes to international relations that the vast majority of the country is accompanied by our building up here an open, free community and trusting in other nations. We have done so by appointing ourselves to become members of the United Nations in 1946 under the mark of the Atlantic Community. We took steps as we walked into the GATT, we were taken into the GATT convention in 1964 and six years later to EFTA. Since 25 years ago, we participated in the establishment of the European Economic Area by signing the EEA Convention. However, the agreement with all its advantages and weaknesses, because it is not faultless, as is the other agreements we make with other nations, has guaranteed Iceland a safe and necessary access to important national markets and given an opportunity to the Icelanders in Europe that they would not otherwise have received. We have had to accept some negatives in the EEA, and the question is, Have the benefits weighed the negative? To me, the answer is obvious. Yes, we have gained more from the cooperation of the European Economic Area against the negatives that have ensued. The rest is another matter, and we're to take a look at ourselves, we're the members of the council; we have to face the fact that we've got to do better with the work of EU accounts, the Senate resolutions and the legislatures. Sadly, we have let down, but there has been a remarkable change under the leadership of the Supreme One. Foreign minister of Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson's son in the last two to three years. We again take care of our interests, as we should, and have always been, and must do. The primary obligation of the government and our primary obligation in this hall is to be careful that our country's competitiveness is maintained, to ensure that Icelandic companies and employees do not become involved in hard international competition. That's why I keep hammering it over and over over from this platform and other platforms and in articles how important it is that all the regulations of society be well thought over, simple and transparent, and that they take into account the competitiveness of the country. All medical systems to the electrical energy system, from agriculture to sea, from financial organization to educational systems to take into account that we can successfully resist other nations. Iceland is an island, far from other markets, and the cost of transportation and other economic problems that come with the distance from foreign markets makes the nation less competitive. In effect, this applies evenly to export and import. There's a lot of stuff that's playing with us, too. Although nature can at times be harsh, it is a gift for us. We have the advantage in many areas, access to cleaner and relatively cheap energy increases the competitiveness of industry and strengthens the concept of the country as a pearl of nature and purity. It is quite clear, and of this we must all agree, that one of the most precious possessions, our resource of Iceland is pure energy. It's one of our most precious resources. So electricity, energy organization, is, of course, the question of Icelandic competitiveness and thus the question of the public's standard of living. Therefore, we will never be able to walk in a way that allows us to take full control of the resources, energy resources, fallwaters, and aquifers. It is these factors that weigh more heavily on my mind when it comes to the question of whether it is right to eliminate the administrative notice of the third EU energy directive. There were these questions, whether or not we were going to give up the sovereignty, property, and capital control over our energy resources, which I had to answer before taking sides with the Congress's counsel. I also needed to answer: Is it possible that by creating a third energy directive, we are performing in a way that would impair the competitiveness of the Icelandic job life or the public's standard of living in a direct way, such as by increasing electricity prices? After passing through all those depressions for the last year, I was not yet convinced. After that, I still had a tiny stomach discomfort, even though I found out that it was 125th. The EEA Convention clearly states that the possession rights and organization of the possession rights in each EEA country are the decision of the country. The rights of rights will not be torn away from the Neon rights or the way to make use of land and other natural resources, so it is guaranteed. I also found out, at least that unchanged there was no chance that energy prices for Icelandic enterprises or Icelandic households would increase because we were implementing the third energy directive. But that wasn't enough for me. It wasn't until I realized it was a reasonable conclusion at the highest level. Secretary of state and supreme. Industrial Ministers to suggest to the General for any doubt that the sea cable between Iceland and other countries would never be laid without the support and approval of the greater part of the Generals, never. It is essential that you think about fixing a sea cable, and then I was beginning to be reasonably calm when it came to that point. Of course, that is also the question of how we are going in the future, not only in this matter but in general, of acting and treating nations we have sought to cooperate in business, culture, art, science, etc. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. You don't give me much time. [[That's all there is to it.]] [[The president calls.]] She's about. half of the speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u154	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for a very interesting speech. I have some questions for the senator. It is well - known from the public talk that he is among them. Members of the Independence Party who have had strong doubts about this matter for a long time. I know why. A senator who wants to do well and work professionally. So I was surprised to learn that if I understood why, he would approach the matter in a way that he did. It's true that we're being placed here to ensure some kind of competitive interest in the Icelandic industry. I have to admit that I don't quite understand that presentation. That's why I want to ask you why. A senator knows whether he is aware of any economic piece of paper that would support that it is of the competitive advantage of Icelandic employment to submit to the third energy package. I don't know, Mr. President, that amongst the data, there is such a economic report. In fact, in the mouth it is the highest. The foreign minister seems to have the concept of the data of the matter stretchable. He kept it, for example. yesterday, falsely, the fact that some news on the Board's website was among the evidence, which it is not, of course, the case. In this first round, I'm interested in hearing the attitude of a boy. A senator for these competitive questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u155	Mr. President. I may not have spoken clearly enough. When I'm referring to the competitiveness of Icelandic employment, and actually Icelandic households, I'm talking about our enjoying it, and I hope there's no debate that electricity prices, energy prices in Iceland are considerably lower than in all parts of Europe. That was one of the things I was worried about would change. Of course, low energy prices are part of our competitive prelude. That's why I stressed it. I'm not talking about the third energy directive in the sense that it prepares for a particular enterprise in a way that is appropriate. A senator was thinking about, as I understood him. However, it can be testified that the number of Icelandic enterprises, especially innovation companies, is based considerably on the existence of a consistent European energy directive, making it easier for them to do all the work. There are companies that, e.g. Build up innovations or new ways for energy. There are companies that build their high-tech on electronics, Marel, Skaft 3X, Frost, etc. It is relevant for these companies, such as the Icelandic seasidency, that there is some whole-scale legislation that allows them to be all the same in our business countries that humans can live and move in the same business environment, not many business areas, depending on where they are.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u156	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and it's nice to have his interpretation of this. I understand that there are no such economic reports in the case so that at least he's not. I don't know any more than I do. I was able to say that many have great ambitions to promote good and professional practices. A senator is naturally among them. We are in a situation where we have a very thorough view of government matters. The questions we now face include: These: Does this legal arrangement work to offset the national commitment we are about to accept by canceling the governmental premise, as approved by this resolution? Is he good? Does he have a national force against the commitment we are taking by bringing in regulations 713 and 713 and 37th? of Directive No. 72, all from 2009?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u157	Mr. President. It's just a very reasonable and reasonable question. This is one of the questions that the Parliament, all of us, needs to answer, especially those who are not quite convinced. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson. It is perfectly normal to mention the Council's Committee, State Department, Professional Affairs, Board of Commission and Observation Committee and any other members of the Parliament who may wish to examine the matter, to call all the major experts, directors, to their meeting and ask this question. That's perfectly normal. I want to, however, that is not part of the evidence, is allowed to quote from the Morning Press, and Stefán Stefánsson says today's verbal statement, with permission of the president's permission: We're bringing in the order, but let's postpone the execution. The Parliament itself promises that if the infrastructure [seminary] becomes planned, this will take place in the process and thereby in the constitution process. When Stefán Stefánsson is asked if this will be carried out in the constitution, he will respond, with permission of the Supreme Court. Mr President, and give me a moment: [[The president calls.]] We think it's because it's indentated, but the law's not doing it until the decision is made to put a cable. This is happening, not as part of the documents. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u158	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason so much for his speech. She was very emotional, and she was like him, warm, and wise. In fact, I thought first, because he spent so much time at first in listing all these institutions that we were part of, that he was either speaking to the highest. A president who is the only speaker of the day who has expressed his will to resign from the EEA, or to his left green partner, who has suggested that Iceland leave NATO. I thought it was some kind of pep talk to both sides, i.e. to the highest. President and VG team. I share the concern of the senator because we made this statement; his concern for it and how he benefited from it. I haven't done it yet. I'm not a perfect man. Senator. [[It'll come.]] It has proved to be 7th, 8 / 9th, and 9th. Regulations 713/2009 include expeditation to overnational authority, which is of great concern, and Professor Stefán Stefánsson questioned it in his opinion and with his secretary. I'd like to ask you what. Senator: Would it not only be natural for him to exclude these three articles in Regulation 713/2009 to make clear that Iceland's people have full and undecided authority over their resources? Does he not feel that this would be addressed to a committee at the end of this procedure and that this would be done?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u159	Mr. President. I'm kind and initially obliged to carry volleyball from a new president. He hasn't said we're leaving the EEA. I was here in the hall earlier today, when it was. A senator was on a speaker, and what he said was that he was available in that discussion; he is being discussed with the benefits and failings of leaving the EEA. Let's talk about this, and I'm here for that discussion too, okay? Senator, anytime. I'm on the side of the EEA. I'm aware of the importance of the EEA contract with the flaws of the contract, I'll admit it. Part of our faults is our fault because we have not done the work we should be doing, here in this room and on the council committees. I hope so. A senator, as a member of the council, goes through this same process as I do, and as far as I do, I come to a conclusion. I want to quote Stefánsson again. True, it is not part of Congress documents, but it is part of a report published by the Board of Directors after the government was established in what way. Secretary of State, had decided to bring this matter up here, i.e. to have legal warnings about the fix of a cable. Then Stefánsson Már, with permission from the Supreme Court, says. President: In this way, the administrative issue is set aside and the Regulation is introduced on the grounds that its regulations regarding transport of electricity across the border are not relevant and therefore not of practical significance. This is the opinion of Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, after he had read and studied the four affairs of the council here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u160	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much for this answer. I share with him the admiration of the EEA contract, and I haven't discussed it, either here from a speech chair or in a publication, that he must resign unless he has less. Hv. A senator did a great deal of research in his speech - and used proben, I did not say it earlier, but I eagerly look forward to hearing the other half of his talk, for the first one was quite good - and I cut by another. He mentioned the competitiveness of Icelandic industry. The Norwegians may have gone a little further than we are in installing the energy package, but the Norwegian industrial drivers have reported that energy prices have increased to such an extent that they are becoming less prepared for competition. Then I'll say again, what. Senator: Isn't it a reason for us to make such a mistake that we don't find ourselves in the mass - growing power to the public and industry to be uncontestable?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u161	Mr. President. It is true now that our situation and the operation of electronic energy here in Iceland are completely different from that in Norway. Norway has to do with Europe's continent through a cable. That will be, although I am not an expert on Norwegian electronic energy, the main reason why power prices in Norway have increased in such a way. A senator quoted. This is one of the reasons why I was concerned about what would happen here when it came to the electronic prices to Icelandic and Icelandic companies. It is clear that by installing the legal warning that a cable will not be laid unless more of the Generals agree, we can make sure that the third energy package, the third energy directive, will not affect the electricity prices in Iceland, not to increase, but perhaps to decrease.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u162	Because there was a discussion of what the president earlier said in the platform, the president doesn't remember much of what he said, but it seems highly unlikely that he felt that he was right in leaving the EEA community. If he said there's more to it than he thought. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u163	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for his speech. It's perfectly clear, Mr. President, that the talk of the highest order. The secretary of state during the days at the European Union's energy manager is not a nationalized document. To that end, it is up to the EFTA or the EU to agree on a common declaration and must then be entered as an Annex to the EEA Convention. Before possible, all the parties, which are all member countries of the European Union and the EFTA countries, must discuss the matter. Such a process has not occurred. This is the talk I'm talking about. Secretary of state to the energy manager has found himself in a statement. It is nothing more than an irresistible wishful thinking and atonement for the grass roots of the Independence Party, a statement that will not weigh too much if anything at ESA, EU Court and EFTA. Peter Ørebech, an expert in European rights and law professor in Norway, says that it is absolutely clear that if investors, e.g. German electrician E.ON, has technical preparations for an electronic cable from Iceland, there is nothing we can do to protest it. This will be in the realm of the European Union or ACER. This is an institution in an office where Iceland cannot instruct or affect. ACER cannot refuse such a string, since it would go against the EEA Convention for limitations of import and export, such as 11 and 12. The deal. So I want to ask you why. A member of the Parliament how he feels about this opinion of the Norwegian law professor.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u164	Mr. President. It's okay. It's okay. paritaprevir Þórarinsson uses the word "circuit " when the Icelandic rulers meet the European Commission's senior officials, as if only in a coffee shop or in a bar. Of course, that is not the case. This is a formal conversation. It is painful when elected representatives, generals, minimize the formal conversation between national rulers, whether in other countries or international organisations. I'm going to quote Stefán Stefánsson again because he is more dear to other men in the minds of the Middle Class, and I have a clear understanding of that. You see, I take a good note of StefánMár the son of Stefánsson, who has been the most conservative when it comes to administrative warnings and opinions in the case of a governor's office, for it is necessary to be on guard always in that regard. But he says in a story or story that appears on the board of directors' website, with permission of the Supreme Court. President: It is also important to have achieved with the European Commission's energy manager a common understanding of the European Union's core and specialisations of Iceland. Although such a declaration is political in nature, it still has significant significance and significance in this context, I don't like it when senators in this hall try to undermine the importance of what's important, which is important to Iceland, which is important to Iceland, and to make them small and trivial, even sarcastic about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u165	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I'd like to correct it, if that's the way it's been. A senator has understood my words as beinglittled that the Secretary of State had met the European Energy Commissioner. I didn't. I told them this was a conversation because they'd talk about it. What took them between them is of no significance because national rights must be some kind of accounting that will be recorded in the EEA Convention to have some significance. I'm very much in favor of executives dealing with foreign partners and counting, for example. to the maximum. A minister of state should have used much more in the so - called raw meat language. I asked him if he had spoken to his partner in the European Union regarding this matter, and he said that he had called the European State Department of State. [[The president calls.]] I don't think that's enough. Not enough. [[The president calls.]] Besides, I don't think they've talked about this now. [[The president calls.]] It would have to be in a much significant way and by means of a book that could have been used in the following case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u166	Mr. President. Because of what? A senator quoted a Norwegian law professor as well. Henrik Björneby won a third energy pack report and how it affected the EEA. He found that it is in no way in which the government will decide for sea cables, this is the case with the Icelandic government. He also says that ACER, or ESA, in our case, does not have the authority to make a decision related to the opinion of the national competent authority on the granting of national relations. What this Norwegian law professor learns is similar to what most of the people who have aided us, the vast majority of our jurists, have discovered. Even Stefán Stefánsson believes that this matter, as it is now prepared from the government and the Supreme Court. Minister of State, if we are safe from the Constitution to accept it. It's so simple.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u167	I'm being accused.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u168	V.E.G. President. I'm here to pray to the highest level. The president of the United States has said a little about his comment today, since he could not answer me. It was insensitive, and I pray. The President's respect for that. However, it is true and we will be able to cross it together, me and the highest. President, that he made a statement today in a speech that he was willing to cancel the EEA deal. Where the president says, and I believe his words well, that he won't remember them his comments, we can best review them together when this is overwritten. But I reiterate that it was insensitive of me to say this to a president when he cannot answer me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u169	The president would like to state for this reason that it is in general that his memory is very unusual, he doesn't always remember what he said, but I think there is a part of the sentence missing as the dog. A senator attests that I could take a walk out of the EEA. I suppose I would be ready if it didn't serve our interests. I'm sure you'll see this in your speech if we go over it together. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u170	Mr. President. Although I feel that the Central Party is in some questionable activity in this case, it is the fact that there are some who are concerned about what this energy package may bring. These concerns did not seem to exist at the approved first and second of the energy package. But okay. Anxiety is there, and it is only natural for us to answer it. The problem is so often that most people do not have time and may not have enough knowledge to study the Bible text as such, and even those who have read through it may have been in trouble because of its insistence. Then there is a great danger of being exposed to false information. For example, a poll on the Internet is now being conducted by Capacent, which says that 80% of Icelanders do not want to increase their power over energy resources to European institutions. I completely agree with that. But they are missing the simple but extremely important fact that there is nothing in the third energy package that includes the transfer of power over energy resources to European institutions. Of course, if they hear what they hear, people are afraid. I'm gonna make this as clear as I possibly can. The third pack of energy does not include experiencing power over energy resources. It does not include the requirement for sea cable repair. In harmony with order work, he goes much less than many of the other cases we've handled in the General Assembly in the past few months. It certainly includes, in exceptional circumstances, the issue of energy distribution or the energy rule between the two or more EU Member States and they do not succeed in solving it on their own, that ACER has been present as a sentence. To criticize this arrangement without criticizing our involvement in the International Business Agency and other organizations that have such a ruling authority is somewhat contradictory. And it has to be said that the company of those who speak against the third energy package, based on the fact that we need to control our resources and those who spoke against the production of resource regulations at their time in a constitution, is extremely interesting. Clearly, there are some who don't know what they want. President. Now it seems that concern is more likely to turn to the negative consequences of an electronic cord being laid between Iceland and any other country. Britain has been primarily described in this context. But remember, it is not clear whether Britain will be in the European Union after three days, much less. I feel that we have to talk only about the physics and economics of sea cables. The world's largest nuclear cable between Iceland and Britain would be about 100 miles [100 km] longer than the longest electrical cable in the world. If an electronic cable should be provided for the country to be safely in the EEA after more than three days, it would have to be at least 300 miles longer than the longest electrical cable in the world. Then we're in Norway. However, in order to reach the Netherlands, which many consider a more likely endpoint, the cable would have to be twice as long as the world's longest electrical cable. What's the length matter? Yes, waste of electricity in the form of heat will be affected as tension increases. In so-called HVDC lines used in sea cables, a temperature loss of about 3% per 1,000 miles is typically expected. This also limits the overall performance of an absolute capacity of about 70-80% because it cannot be kept too hot at all times. This does not mean that it is impossible in itself to place a cable, but as it grows longer, it becomes more expensive both in production and in business and more loss. And the loss of one of the twenty percent of the electricity to warm up the Atlantic is rather clumsy. This physics is mainly relevant in this context, if you look, for example. The world's most optimistic websites are estimated to be at 65 pounds [65 kg] electronic prices per minute. This will be explained naturally by the cost of sea cables and scripts and things, but the electrical prices in Britain today are 43 pounds per minute. To accomplish this, the electricity would have to be 30% more expensive than the energy sold in Britain. I'm not sure anyone wants to buy the energy at that price. However, it will be noted that during the last 12 months, solar energy has fallen at approximately 30% and 18%, respectively. The scene where an electronic nuclear cable to Britain, let alone into Europe, does not exist. On that basis alone, even with a rather stiff reading of 8 st. Regulation No. 713/2009, quoted by some, would be a good reason to reject such a cable. President. A similar concern arose in Norway during the treatment of the situation. In fact, the public speaking points for the main opponents of the third energy package in Norway have been taken directly into the Norwegian - speaking Icelandic Central Party. Of course it's just a coincidence, isn't it? The concern in Norway was answered well. With all the evidence against the recent packages, there was nothing left but to prepare and sign a political agreement between most parties in the Norwegian Parliament on what might be and could not follow the approval. I have that agreement, got it from a Norwegian senator who was chairman of the third energy package in the Norwegian Council. I suggest, if it's a real problem, we just agree to take up that job and make good use of it, there's a number of things that might be good for us in Iceland. For example, in the 3rd stanza of the agreement, the Icelandic government, if I am a localist, is represented by the natural Norwegian government, has full control over decisions involving energy security in Iceland, including those involved in industry and evaporation. Icelandic renewable energy will be used for valuables and job development in Iceland and to reduce the use of fossil fuels. This is all something we should be able to say. Of course, there is another problem. You see, in the Norwegian Council, the Central Party did not want to participate in such an agreement. It seems that the Icelandic Party might not be likely to do that either. This is because the aim is not to stop this particular energy package, but to undermine the EEA Convention. There's been a lot in the discussion over the past few days. I would like people to be honest with them. True, it was good to do so. paritaprevir Sæland Gorand walked in the past, wanting to cut off the EEA agreement rather than agree to improved consumer protection in electronics, but others have not said anything like that. All right. Not everyone wants us to enjoy the success of the Icelandic economy in the last 25 years. I like the EEA deal very well, because it means a lot to us. It would be better for the discussion if it were so. The members of the council would have some basic principles in this regard. For filming, I heard something yesterday. A senator speaks of the fifth freedom of the European Union. There are four freedoms in the European Union. In fact, I've spoken of freedom of information placed on the fifth of my freedom, but they don't listen to me, as you can see in this half hall. [[Set forward: the secretary.]] Except for the Minister. But if we can't have such facts, then it's pretty hard to have informed conversations about these matters. I'm gonna put this together. First of all. There are no legal requirements in this third energy package that we need to worry about. Second of all. There is no technical basis for sea cables to be laid at the moment and even if they did, there would be no economic basis for the power of electricity being too expensive. Third, please. There is no political will, I think, to cause Iceland the harm that the opponents of the third energy package believe is inevitable. That fear can be struck by the way the Norwegians used it. Finally, it is extremely disturbing that this discussion should have the strong tendency to be primarily at the head of the EEA Convention because people may be afraid to go against the agreement as they are at hand. It's pretty bad politics. If people have something on the EEA contract, it would be better for them to have a discussion about it, then they'd be talking about it. Then we could bring all the numbers to see what the EEA contract has done to us in the last 25 years. It's boring when people use this kind of language to pick up dust. That won't be necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u171	Mr. President. He has entered the Al Parliament's hall of this multimedia third energy package, which many have strong opinions about. This package, if I may use it a word for the proposals for Congress and billing that we are about, is by no means easy to read, much less easy to understand. According to the proposal, the Council of the Council agrees with the Government to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission, No. 93/2017 of May 5, 2017, of change in IV. An appendix on energy, with the EEA contract from May 2, 1992, and log into certain types of the contract. There are also four European Parliament regulations, two directives and two decisions made by the Commission to change and add to the annex of certain European Regulations. So here it is taking the Commission's decision to enter the EEA Convention four specific regulations and two directives that have been referred to as the third energy package. Mr. President. Later today at the council, we will deal with a bill for the change in electricity laws, where it is launched in the directive that the link between the energy systems of the country's electricity system to other countries depend on government policies, i.e. Governments here on land. Mr. President. What is the value of this? What is the value of this law against the national obligation that we regret that all EU types in this regard are introduced, as did the joint EEA committee supplied to us? Among them is 8 C.E. Regulation No. 713/2009, who has been most in the discussion about the need to be careful about going contrary to the constitution, i.e. ... thisis the administration to ESA that does not fit in Iceland's Constitution. What is the national value of this warning that the General is going to put in the electric law? What scholars have thought about the value of this warning we are facing? Have scholars discussed this, Mr. President? No, they have not, except to the extent that Professor Stefán Már Stefánsson and Friðrik Friðriksson Hirst made this solution as a flash, yes, lascivious, and the last advantage, in attempting to bridge the controlling problem in the case. Moreover, they threw away their hard work that this way was not flawless. Mr. President. What Professor Stefán Stefánsson says about this option is found in a report on the board of the Board of Directors, at the highest level. The minister of state has falsely identified the evidence, is following, and I directly quote that report, with the permission of a president: In this way, the administrative issue is set aside and the Regulation is introduced on the grounds that its regulations regarding the transfer of electrical energy across the border are not applicable here. Mr. President. What if these conditions fail? And what does that mean? When might this time mark appear to us? On a later occasion, Stefán says, with the permission of a president: The proposal for this solution is that a third supply of energy does not put an obligation in Iceland to establish cross-border infrastructure. Rather, it is a decision on Iceland's custody. Mr. President. What if this situation, called by the professor's failure, proved to be the custody of the Icelanders because of the national commitments we deal with? Does the third pack of energy lay on us, Mr. President? I'm just asking. Is it true that the third energy package puts some kind of obligation in Iceland to get infrastructure across the border to form in the event of a search? Is that implied by those words? Finally, he says of the common understanding of the European Commission and local authorities by permission of a president: Even if such a declaration is political in nature, it still has significant significance and meaning in this context. Yes, the statement has value. But is this political proclamation sufficient to make the case successful, considering that there are new masters, and the Law text lives independently regardless of who are seated on the throne? Mr. President. Have scholars given further or more accurate opinion on this route? No, they haven't even been asked. This situation raises some questions. Why has this route not been studied? Do they know where they're going? In fact, if they don't know where they're going, it doesn't matter which way they're going because they just land somewhere and sometimes in an unexpected place. One of the repeated statements by the followers of this case is that most of this third energy package has nothing to do with us Icelanders, since our electrical energy system is not linked to the energy system in Europe. It is also claimed that secular authority under the law does not affect us for the same reason. The main issues identified by scholars on legislation are just these factors, whether the exercise of power is in such a way that it does not agree with the legal requirements of the Republic of Iceland that such an institution, ESA, be entrusted with the authority to make legal decisions, such as individuals or legislators in this country. On the contrary, it doesn't matter because we're not connected to the European electricity market, we're not connected, so we're not warning about these rules and they don't apply until we're connected. Mr. President. So I ask, why are we doing this? Why? It's a simple question. And the answers are, just because. And that's why I say it, just because what? This needs an explanation. This will inevitably lead us to the question, Is it unwise to reject the most questionable parts of the package, that is, Regulation No. 713/2009, about the realm of ACER. On May 5, 2017, I want to make a very clear decision by the European Commission on May 5, 2017, that this European Union has, in a sense, an offer to the EFTA Institute of Observation, ESA, which also raises a number of questions. The same can be said for Regulation No. 014/2009. This should also be considered to reject recording of the specific 37rd paragraph. Directive No. 72 / 2009, in this article, you will be assigned and related to the tithing of the national Rapporteur but in d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-dr. This report is requested to conduct the Agency's decisions and refers to the ESA, now or ACER, depending on the way things are viewed. And this obligation by the national Commission, here of the Power Agency, concerns decisions mentioned in sections 7, 8, and 9. The above Regulation No. 713 and legally binding. So, what is the point of rejecting this particular part of the principle that has truly been the greatest among scholars? What's wrong with that, Mr. President? - I see my time is running out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u172	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I knew he would run out of time so that I would do him the favor of giving him an answer so that he could explain his point even more. Hv. To some extent, a senator was concerned. But I still have to admit that I still don't understand exactly what your concerns are. Is it the fear that this synoptic proposal and the bills that follow will in some way violate the constitution? Is that fear? If so, we already have a lot of opinions that say they won't. But I restate on the fact that, of course, we should use therapy to review it better. Or is it? A senator in some way expressed his fear of something that might happen in the future as to sea cables in spite of the fact that this is taken up by a discussion in the Senate resolution that the sea cable is inside the picture? As a result, the ACER, the European Commission, has nothing to say about how the case will be handled, primarily responsible for the existing activities. So, I'm asking, a respectable president, "Worship." A senator who can bring in some bad foreigners, park a sea cable, connect himself to electricity production in Iceland, and absorb energy from us? Is that really the dread of the senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u173	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. The constitution is being violated - I read all the reasons for Stefán Már' opinion to which he will yield for the release chosen. I read it here for a stick, almost by permission of a president, and all the conditions he gives himself. I simply asked: "If this situation fails, if this situation fails, how can it be understood what I read up there? You can read my speech when it comes out in print and read it over yourself. This is simply what Professor Stefán Már suggests by the way the government in the country has chosen. It's just that way. There are many warnings and many factors that need to be met. I read them up here, and I'm not going to get tired of reading them again, but I'd like to tap one thing because of it. A senator spoke of the cable. I never mentioned it. But here's what it says: [This solution] is that the third energy package does not add obligation in Iceland to set up infrastructures across the border... The premise is that this solution works, that the package doesn't have to go to Iceland to do this. Then I'll say, "If this arrangement doesn't work out, if someone comes and wants to do it, then the package, the book, this duty, will be on us." That's what I'm pointing at. That's my question to those who recommend this matter, and hopefully it will be handled by the council committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u174	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. The report of the Árni of Friðrik's Friðriksson and of Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, has been very much discussed. As noted in many discourses, there are actually two solutions. That is the solution we have on the table now. So I can understand that these criteria are kept because that is what these experts suggested, i.e. To go as far as this is concerned. There may be some questions about this, and I think it is only natural for me to ask them when the matter arises. State Department. But do they know where they're going? I know where most of us are going and where we're at. Ministers are heading for this case, but at the same time, there's some reason. The members of the Central Party spoke for sending the case back into the EEA Committee. Then I'll ask him back, "Know what." The members of the Central Party what they're talking about in that regard? [[Foreground on: Yes.]] What does that mean? Where, then, are we heading? What will be the result? [[Up front.]] Have a what? Do members of Congress answer that question? Because I think that's exactly what we have to answer to the way we are on the table right now. It is in the opinion of many of our leading experts, as well as the conduct of council members and officials, in conversation with the energy manager and other representatives from the European Union. That's what's going to happen. With regard to the other route, I ask why. Senator: Do the members of the Central Party know where they're headed? What would result from such a course?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u175	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. She asked if we knew where we were going. At 102nd. in the European Economic Area Act is a means of reconciliation, i.e. Secrets on how to handle differences for the joint committee. So it's in the middle of nowhere. If the case is rejected, it will go there. It can be referred to there. [[Up front.]] So we know exactly where it is. A lot of questions come to mind when you read the opinion of Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson and especially his second answer to that of the Council's Web, where he responsors, if any basis exists. I'll ask you what if this situation breaks? That's what I'm asking. The answers are not available. I hope that it will be discussed in detail in the committees. I miss it and was arguing that the way you put it, the last way, has not been investigated. No scholars have been asked at that time. It is very brief in their opinion of the way they offer, and no one else has expressed themselves about it. So it is reasonable for the generals to come up in a pit and ask, " Why is this way not better tested? ' You haven't. I have pointed to questions that come to mind when reading this publication. I've just done it. I hope that these questions will be answered during conquistancy. But the way is, of course, to go back to the common committee on this subject. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u176	A respectable president. Here we are talking about the decision of the joint EEA on the change of IV. Annex to the EEA Convention or a so-called third energy pack. It's been 25 years since we joined the EEA treaties and the partnership. Thus, 25 years ago we defined electricity as product. Energy has been one of the most important reasons for economic progress in this country and has been since the late 1800's. Little wonder, then, that emotional discussion begins. Well, we're living in a resource-powered economy. Norwegians supplied the third energy package last year. Several panels in the Norwegian Parliament provide conditions and can read their common vision of what energy and energy resources are to them as a nation. The vision displayed in those points is an emphasis on Norway's water supply resources being continued on custody and under the control of our country and society. They enjoy renewable energy, which is to promote valuables and to promote national energy exchange. The Norwegians emphasize in their emphasis that the Norwegian government should have full custody of all energy security decisions in Norway and that all cross-border connections must be absolutely a matter of government custody and possession of Norwegian parties. They also stress to improve monitoring and that this will be carried out at home before and in the hands of the energy agency and will be limited to meeting the minimum requirements of the third energy package. We can agree with that focus of the Norwegians, and most of the Icelanders are likely to. Yet, Norwegians are linked with electrical cables across the border, so they have this vision and perhaps look to some kind of national agreement. A respectable president. This council proposal now goes to treat the council. The work being done in preparation for her has made it possible for us to approach a viewpoint similar to that of the Norwegians. The Parliament will receive that cup and will go to the treatment of the foreign committee. The committee has to make sure that we are not handing over our resources or power. There can be no doubt about it, and there can be no doubt about it. Our chief expert on the matter, Stefán Stefánsson, widely quoted in this hall, has confirmed that the application made in the proposal will ensure full custody of our resources and control systems. It is based on the fact that the building blocks are not there to become part of a joint energy market in Europe, i.e. The cable. Until then - and I repeat until now - we are in the same position as we are now. Along with this synonym, Congress proposal comes from the highest level. Tourism, industrial and innovation minister, which will be discussed tonight, aimed at ensuring that the network of electricity systems of the country will not be established by any other country except by changing governments's policies for that purpose, so that no ocean cable repair will be undertaken without the approval of the General. That's very clear. As long as we don't bond, nothing will happen. In effect, we are not connected to the third energy package. When the cables are laid, we, or the ones that follow us, must take up the discussion and set the lines and paths. A respectable president. There's been a two-way talk here. At the attic, fear - inspiring propaganda is heard, and conventions are closer to cheering from members of the basement. It is good to be at the middle of the hill, having participated in a conversation about the energy package, seeking ways to cooperate and agree without endangering our independence. Again, I stress that the matter will be addressed to the council, so members of the council have the opportunity to review the matter carefully. It is special to hear a number of false stories about the matter that have no basis for making a suggestion and that are sent from this chair into society to make it even more cynical. For those who do not know the matter well or who have not read it, these are phrases that are easily grasped and quoted. I'd like to mention a few points: Electricity increases to garden farmers, subsidies finishes, incentives to channel a cable, control of our resources. Our daily bread with cheese and butter is rising substantially because of an increase in electrical prices. The surveillance is moving towards ESA. I haven't found a cane for the points some have. Senators are setting aside for us and the nation. I warn them, and this is not a way to reach an agreement and conclusion. Rather, it is merely an impulse of rioting and confusion. We're a little bit like kids here at the councilroom sitting around the Christmas tree on the Shrimp Mass and trying to guess what's in the package. I wonder if it's a Christmas bike. A respectable president. We should try to concentrate on making peace, leading us toward a conversation to achieve a solidarity among all of us and the people of the EEA and this deal, but do not make it perplexable. Don't stand on the corner and shout and paint a distorted picture in this regard. This does not lead to a conclusion. Speaking of the urge to lay a cable, he's gonna cost a lot. Besides, if it was laid, e.g. Electricity loss. The loss of transport is considerable, as we have seen, and there is not so much electricity here to move out of the country. I think we should record the facts. So a question is, When technology comes forward, whether the electricity production in a foreign country will become the technically visible use of marine or solar energy, and why should other countries turn to us or to us? I don't know. Let us be careful not to give up and reason to discuss this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u177	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. First, I'd like to say that I'm glad that, at last, a senator of the forward team should come on the platform and discuss this matter. [[But Willum?]] True, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson was here. Actually, I wasn't present at the councilroom then. There are two of them, and what a joy it is, especially in view of the fact that there is a great opposition to this matter in the forwarding party and the grass source of the forward party! One representative of the fine group who calls himself our Orc, a grass - based organization that opposes this induction, is the former senator, Frosti Sigurjónsson. Then it is helpful to consider only the resolution of the forward movement council from February 2018, which states: The mission team defends Iceland's energy-industry countries and rejects the European Union's energy legislation as part of the European Commission Convention on the European Economic Area. This is from the Council of the United States of February 2018. I can't see any better than it's completely confused with what's wrong. In his talk, a senator spoke. That is why it is interesting to have passed by. A senator: Will this resolution and, therefore, the grass root of the Agency on this big issue be opposed to the convention's council?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u178	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I can assure him that the advance party is still on because we are not in anything to give up our sovereignty or control over our energy resources with these packages. [[That's good to hear.]] That will not happen unless the cable is laid. The surveillance isn't on ESAs at all. It's here, it doesn't have any authority over us. It is entirely up to the Icelandic government to decide whether an electrical cord will be laid. I can assure the senator, who is deeply concerned about his first class, that we are going behind our words or decisions, that this is what we are accepting, that our terms have been obtained in this contract, and that is what matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u179	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. The Senator mentioned an exception here. An interesting statement came from the Norwegian minister of foreign affairs recently in the Great Assembly, where he said that there were no new leaveovers approved for the Icelanders. Then he says: "These homemade warnings are worse than none. Then he's likely referring to the warning that the electric law will legalise that this cable will not be laid without the approval of the General Assembly. This is interesting, and it would be good to get it out of the question. A senator how he views this statement by the Norwegian Secretary of Foreign Affairs. It must be taken seriously because the Norwegian are a very large member of the European Economic Area and are basically involved in this cooperation as well. Don't worry about it, boy. A senator, that such a heavyweight comes forth with a statement like this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u180	A respectable president. I understand that it is true that in the absence of Norway's foreign minister, the health minister responded to a weekly inquiry period at the council to see if Norway would need to reconsider the introduction of the third energy package due to the joint declaration of Iceland and the Commission of energy. The Norwegian Minister replied that nothing in the declaration would give a basis for a review. He also stated that the declaration was not restricted to Iceland from the third energy package's terms. I can't understand that this is some kind of confirmation that our exception is not valid. I believe they should be able to stand, and this has been shown in the case of the highest. Minister that this is going to be done, and nothing will connect us with this directive until we are connected to this market.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u181	V.E.G. President. I would like to, with President's permission, to begin by reading a small fraction of a resolution that reads like this, with the permission of the president: The suicide party rejects further expeditors of the European Union's dominion over the European Union's energy market. I want to read it again: The suicide party rejects further expeditors of the European Union's dominion over the European Union's energy market. This is the discovery of the Independence Party since March of 2018, but it is now forgotten. On the other hand, a recent resolution from a party council meeting of the Central Party since March 30th, by permission of the president, stated: ▪ The mass protects national sovereignty, independence, and resources. The team will want to trust the national custody of their resources and will violate the approved third EU energy package. The Party does not approve of the sale of Iceland's state of energy resources or the expected rise in electricity prices in the country. So many words, Mr. President. The point is, however, that the Central Party has taken steps to protect national sovereignty, independence, and resources. He has taken steps to protect the constitution. He has taken steps to protect the continued prosperity in Iceland that will benefit future generations. And as it happens, at our observational positions, which we members of the party have tried to present very closely over the past two days, the only answers we receive are not on the issues, but on the category itself. I have nothing against our opponents advertising our fine party. I like it very much. But I don't understand why people don't take part in a more objective discussion, many of which have not. This afternoon was a nice part of the Conspiracy and the chairman of the party. In his speech, with the permission of a president, he said something about the right course and the duty to follow the advice of the most skilled experts. As a result, I read him a short chapter from the report of two of our most skilled experts, but then it wasn't suitable. You shouldn't read some pieces that don't work, and only after this one, but not the other. I have to admit that since this was a report after two of our most skilled European rights specialists, including a professor who is now a professor of honor, I thought it would be safe to witness to them. But the chairman of the United States called it a people's plot and nonsense, if I recall correctly. I really miss men not just meeting us here on the basis of the subject and considering the issues rather than making such a speech. I don't know if I'm supposed to advertise the backup form Attraction and his presentation from today on. I think I'm doing him the best I can by not doing it. But that is exactly what these painful topics are, which are predominant and this strange straw samples that are in construction where the European Union and the euro markings are at the end of the tunnel, and people talk a lot about things like that the Central Party wants to build walls around Iceland. There's nothing far from us Middleclassmen but to do it. However, like Einar Ben, we want the world to be a whole world under their backs. said somewhere. We're not going to pick one of those fallen continents and hang ourselves around her neck to take part in any further humiliation that appears in those parts. We're going to make good contact. We are going to make good business dealings with Asia, the world's greatest market. We are going to turn our eyes toward the Western world, to America, where the rise is reasonably good. So all talk of some isolationists, middle-class members, is at best a very misunderstanding. I'm not going to start talking to farmers, but we are not the class that wants to get rid of sheepskin shoes. We'd like to take part in getting a course for Iceland's hand in many parts of the world. Therefore, is the energy pack that we're discussing here is a very dangerous package. I must first review that we in the Middle Ages are somehow made to say that the Constitution should be enjoyed by the doubt. For a full - costume report, see the box "What Does the Bible Really Teach? " 43, with President's permission: In view of the nature and input of the power supply to ESA, of Article 8. Regulation No. 713/2009, consider the authors to be unconcerned as to whether the exercise of power goes beyond the terms of the Constitution under the current circumstances and the terms of the EEA Convention. All we have said in these discussions is that the Constitution should enjoy the doubt. Therefore, we have also suggested that humans pay attention to paragraphs 7, 8, 9 and 7. European Union Regulation No. 713/2009, which presents a significant exercise of power, which presents the authority of this overnational institution, which is part of this contract, this package. We have warned that we should simply say, " Let's make serious warnings by refusing to pick up this energy package. ' The question is, What will happen then? In short, that will not happen. This package goes to the Joint EEA Committee for reviews and after negotiations there, we would be able to stand up for serious notice because we would be rejecting 7th, 8, and 9th. Regulations 713/2009, in which this super-national governance, ACER, plays a major role. Today our opposers have talked a lot about cables. We don't talk much about sea cables because it's not yet up to him. We talk about this international authority that we are going to commit to an institution that answers only Brussels. The rule of the country, which is part of this tool, is also clear to no one in this country, but we are to pay for it. We're supposed to pay him a salary to work for the EU in Iceland. And there is something that we are not prepared to sign. But the other misunderstanding will come. That's the misunderstanding that the Central Party wants to reveal or upset the EEA deal. This is far from correct, because by making serious warnings about Regulation 713/2009 we will take up this model, but we will take it on our terms with serious requests because the warnings in this case, Mr. President, excuse the language, are not worth the appeal. They're not worth a dime. It's almost certain that if this case goes through like this, like this tore, there'll be an eternal lawsuit here. There will be no peace on this matter, unfortunately. However, as peacemakers, we want to pay attention simply by making warnings and by accepting and doing things better. I hope this is done on the Committee. We're counting on it, but at least we want the public to know what this is all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u182	A respectable president. I'm mostly here to report what. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson stone that I will explain in a future speech that the third energy package or its presentation against the Icelanders, rejected and rejected by the National Assembly of Independence. A senator read from that approval, not today the energy package that was rejected. That's what I'll go over with. A senator after. That's even. The reason I would have rejected that energy package as it stood, as it lay last fall. I haven't changed my mind about it, but the package itself has changed. That's what I'll explain later. I heard what it was. Last night, a Cestlight senator announced that he would even bring some unexpected news or feature into his speech here, but not much has surprised me. But I still want to pray. A senator, kind of referring to everyone. The members of the Central Party that come here, explaining to me what it is in this matter of the Foreign Minister, who, in their opinion, makes it a matter of their opinion that we are leaving custody of natural resources in Iceland I've said before that it's a significant concern for them because if they can point this out to me, if that's true. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson can show me where in the matter of the Foreign Minister's matter is the dissociation of Iceland's resources, I'll come to the no-partment with them. There's something to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u183	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A sincere senator for this answer. I must say, I look forward to hearing his second speech as he explains why the third energy package is not the same as it was. I will listen with great interest to his speech. What is it that says we are putting power on our resources? I still want to give a witness to Professor Esterius, Stefánsson's Már, but on page 30. 42 points out, with permission of the highest power. President: We'll be on the 8th floor. Regulation No. 713/2009 recorded in the EEA Convention and introduced in Icelandic correctly as unchanged, the Regulation shall include the implementation of the European Commission to the ESA, which could be passed on by the Icelandic government. This is clearly clear. And then, as I read earlier, he adds that this is on the verge of meeting the constitution. That's what worries me. The concern is also what our cousins of the Norwegian have sent us to show us, making it very clear that they believe they are giving up about that time. 2/3 of the effects the Norwegian once had in their own energy. It scares us. On the other hand, I'm very happy to hear it. A member of the council describes the support of us middle class members in the matter. I know why. A senator because he is a wise man, and I have no doubt that when he considers this matter further, and I look forward to listening to him support it, he will come to our aid in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u184	A respectable president. One minute will do well, for it simply points to the fact that there is hardly any argument that counts in Norway in support of the language. paritaprevir Sæmundsson had already done, simply because the basic difference is that the Norwegians are connected to Europe in this respect, but we don't Iceland. What the Norwegians think they may have lost from power over their electricized politics is just not appropriate here. We're not connected.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u185	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator still. It was foreign in Iceland in den to always say, "There are other circumstances in Iceland. It was no matter where they were picked up, not in Iceland or anywhere else. The matter, however, is very simple. It says that paragraphs 7, 8 and 9. Regulations 713/2009 include the exercise of power. That's why we're rejecting this energy package. We'll settle negotiations on 7th, 8 and 9th. Regulation 713/2009, let's make this better. I'll be happy if it's all right. A senator wants to accompany us on that journey, hoping in it because it is the wisest course. We've recorded all EU types, and nothing's gonna change now. We just record this on our terms, but not on Brussels, that's the difference.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u186	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's Þorsteinn was very concerned that the Central Party was one of the defenders of Iceland's independence. I encourage them to wear sheep's skins. Those wearing such shoes were better connected to nature, the environment, and themselves along the way. I don't think it's the right way to protect the nation's independence by using fear propaganda, as has been practiced here today. The most incredible comments and reviews of this third energy package have been made and what it would do here. Hv. A senator claimed today that we would lose control over the value of electricity to Iceland's consumers. Where in the world does this say? And that we would lose control of the resources, subsidies would be risked to garden farmers? There are other examples. Hv. A member of the Central Party claimed today that the price of electrical energy for the average user had increased after input of an energy package from one to three.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u187	That's right.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u188	That's right. I also bought a caramel at 5 bucks. when I was ten, but it's gone up that way -- it's not a way out. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Outbacks.]] I have not noticed - I am from the West, and I have known the electronic products for household use - that they have slightly increased on these grounds.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u189	V.E.G. President. I explained earlier that there had been little objective discussion at the council today, and there was nothing to do with this contrary to the senator. On the other hand, yesterday a member of the Central Party, which is just the use of electrical energy for house - to - house heating, came up on a deck. He tried his own skin, as everyone did, when there was a gap between production and transporting electricity a few years ago that resulted in an increase in income records. Now I don't know how it could have passed by. Senator, living in the West. The window mail may affect us a little bit in the way we do. But this is something I thought everyone knew. Where does it say that ACER will take over prices and other things? Yes, there is a great deal of information on this phenomenon, which is too secular. I'd love to send some. A senator's link to this, where it can be reviewed in an orderly way. That may be the very point we Middle Class have tried to warn as much as possible today. In itself, we have made little progress because we are always talking about sea cables with us or talking about being just people's riders who will not stop at anything. But we are struggling to promote that subject. This includes the fact that there is a great deal of expedient to this institution in the current contract. That's why I suggested before, the highest. President, to 7th, 8th and 9th. under Regulation 713/2009 of the EU would be separate from this issue in committee and we could then negotiate with the European Union. [[The president calls.]] That'd be a lot.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u190	A respectable president. Can't we take it out of parentheses only for the price of electricity in this country and discuss e.g. about Icelandic electronic law? Is there no answer there for meditation? A senator? Can we not review that law and consider in that context? I think we need to see if we can make adjustments in our own market, on our own law. There is no one who does it for us except for us. It's what it is. A senator that we would gain some objective basis for a discussion about Icelandic electronic law, would we be able to improve them in protecting the interests of Icelandic consumers?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u191	V.E.G. President. As a result, what I said earlier is not my meditation. I read the above in a recent article on page 18 of this magazine. 42 says, with President's permission: We'll be on the 8th floor. Regulation No. 713/2009 recorded in the EEA Convention and introduced in Icelandic correctly as unchanged, the Regulation shall include the implementation of the European Commission to the ESA, which could be passed on by the Icelandic government. It's just there. ESA's decision-adjusted decisions depend on the use of a limited resource that is involved in the electrical transport capacity of the infrastructure and the outside. It is not an example for such an executive to the international institutions on the basis of the EEA Treaty, as it is now. This is not my meditation. They're completely different and they're corrosive. But this is the opinion of the best of us. And we are put in this room to rely on experts'opinions in most matters. Why, then, in death, do we not do so when it is such a good time? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u192	Mr. President. I'm just going to show the Senate a small plot of electronic prices in Iceland from 2006, according to the EFLU Lab. This does not substantiate the claim that electricity prices in Iceland have gone up in recent decades but, in fact, actually, the real value. But that's not what I was going to ask you. A senator and a friend of mine, Þorsteinn Sæmundsson. Here, mainly a statement or opinion has been quoted by this fine man and the legal professor of Stefán the Már of Friðrik and Fridrik Friðrik Friðriksson Hirst, a fine opinion made before the whole matter of Congress. But let it lie in between things. However, they follow other opinions of reputable lawyers and lawyers in this matter of Congress. I want to quote even. Skúli Magnússon, who says that the type of third energy package, and the sources, 7th, 8, and 9. Regulation No. 713/2009, take in no way to determine the link between electricity transfers to other countries, such as the fixation of a cable. The sources of resource use, e.g. the inducers His conclusion, then, is that this is not a matter of opinion. By permission of the highest power. Later, he says on page 30. 40: In this regard it is stated that the introduction of the requested products would not include any obligation of the Icelandic state to establish, or allow, a link between the Icelandic electricity market and other EU countries. My question is, is what? paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson to question this niðurstaða of Skúli Magnússson?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u193	V.E.G. President. I'm very fond of having an answer from what's happened. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason. He still started talking about the cable. I wasn't there. I wasn't talking about a cable. Well, that's the way it is. A member of the Central Class has made contact and cooperation with more lawyers than here is cited who have found the same results as those we have quoted. Since that is not part of a Senate document, we have not directly quoted it. We'll probably do this later when the person may send in some of the reviews when this case is addressed to the committee, and then it's natural. But it's a very typical case, because it's complicated, that we have the opinion of the best lawyers that conflicts. They don't agree. That's because it's complicated. But the members we have been in contact with, as well as Professor emerius Már Pár, have said in our ears more than once and more than twice in the 7th, 8, and 9th. In Regulation 713/2009 we need to go outside so that we are absolutely certain that this will not be the power market we're talking about and the amount of money we're talking about. I assume that the member of the Central Party who spoke of electrical prices yesterday brought in a copy of an electronic account in the coming days and showed black people what this meant, this exchange between production and the transport of electricity. I don't think there's any difference, and it's been going on in many places, not just for us, that electricity raised that step considerably. She was raised about 25%, if I remember correctly. It rose significantly, and I think that any man who uses electricity to some extent would have been aware of it unless perhaps the last two members of the council here spoke.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u194	Mr. President. I witnessed earlier today in a Norwegian law professor, Björneby Björneby, who said that, for example. ACER would have no authority when it came to Iceland or the question, Should we take a cable or not? This is totally in harmony with the conclusions made by Dr. Davíð Þór Björgvinsson, who states that ACER's authority alone defends the crossborder structures. The Agency's authority accounts only when electrical power is transferred across borders by integration of infrastructure. And we are now considering whether we should give the legal warning that a cable will not be laid under any circumstances unless this hall, this distinguished meeting, its home, and its support by a greater part of the votes. And I hope my fine buddy, why. þm. The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, he realized what we're doing. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is this very change that has led Stefán to conclude that this is the right way and the sure way. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u195	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator still on the counter. He didn't calm me down. This is shown in these articles that I quoted earlier, 7, 8, and 9. g., clearly what ACER is to do and to whom to answer. Simply put, these three articles are in this way. Even though there are some lawyers who feel strongly about it, it is clear to us that they are subject to a fall in the power market, as we have seen, and a raise in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u196	A respectable president. I was one of the members of the Independence Party who had the greatest doubts about the third energy package. I declared it publicly in the fall, on a radio show, that we were so prepared and at that point I would vote against the third energy package if he was elected in the council as he looked at them. For this, there were three main reasons. First of all, I thought that as it was done, it would include a expeditation of power that could not last for the Constitution. I set myself up there, like others behind the opinion of the scholar who has now witnessed a few thousand times today, which has been the longest, and most historically, in defense of the Constitution, has always been the most conservative and critical of all scholars. I took the position that I wanted to be on that side of the line, safe on the side of the line, and hung myself on, so to speak, his stand was because he walked the longest. Second, it was not available at that point in the fall when an issue was considered where the decision to fix a cable really lay, whether it might lie somewhere else than here in this hall. Third, even if we were not connected with a string, I felt that we Icelanders were not giving up any of the decisions relating to a joint energy market in Europe. These doubts may have been common with them. Councilmen who have received a silent note, especially the Middle East, but also the Gang of the People. But what happened next? What happened from the last autumn until now? Things changed. In any case, it would have been said that from the autumn until now, it has changed in nature. First, and then I go back to the points I listed earlier, these three points, have been arranged so far that the man, the scholar I quoted earlier, has said that in the uniform that the case is not represented by the authority of a constitution. I'm a little better involved in this discussion with the Már of Stefánsson. Second, there is no doubt any longer that the decision to fix a cable will be taken anywhere but here in this hall. And third, the fact is that without a string, Iceland is in no way prepared for the decisions made in this common European electricity market. In other words, all three doubts have been answered, and they have been laid down. But instead of acknowledging that the situation has changed, we do not have a problem. The members of the Central Party here, saying, "But we're going to be against this. " I'm just going to step back to Stefán Már's show, because he's been quoted more than any other probably in this room during the conversation yesterday and today. You see, I'm in the same way with Stefán Már when he says it's okay with the constitution, and I set up with him when he said it wasn't okay with the constitution. Hv. The members of the Central Party, on the other hand, are just picking up on him when he said it wasn't okay, but not now when he says it's okay. It's strange that when it happened. Today, the members of the Central Party have referred to Stefán Már, who always agree with him and agree with him except the results. They do not agree with Stefán Már's conclusion that this is okay. It's also a bit cute to listen to quoting at the moment. The members of the Central Party of Stefán Már usually end on page 24. Forty-two, Stefán Már. This is because his conclusion, and on page, the Árni Friðrik's Friðriksson Fridrik's. 43 and 44. In other words, this is always a reference to their case but never to their conclusion. To settle any doubt about this matter, I would like to quote the words of Stefán Már, whom he gave in this case when he saw that his own expressions were taken about what would be needed to make the matter okay. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson said here in connection with Stefán Már and those who wrote it, the best of our men. Then I would like to quote Stefán Már's comment on the matter after the matter was conducted that we have a discussion today, with permission of the president: In this way, the administrative issue is set aside and the Regulation is introduced on the grounds that its regulations about transporting electricity across the border are not relevant and therefore not of practical significance. This means, in effect, that their values depend on certain deadlines. The premise of this solution is that the third energy package does not add to Iceland's obligation to establish ground-to-border structures. It is a matter of decision on Iceland's custody. This is one of the methods proposed by our Friðrik and, in our opinion, the recording and implementation of the structure by this constitution, as there is a legal advantage that these specific requirements are not to be carried out until the legal basis, including the administrative issue, has been implemented at the Council. It is also important to have achieved with the European Commission's energy administrator a common understanding of the European Union's core and specialisations of Iceland. Even though such a declaration is political in nature, it still has significant significance and meaning in this context. I would like to reiterate and refer to what is said in the middle, by permission of a president, this way the authorization of the structure, according to the Constitution. It's Stefán Már. paritaprevir The village of Sæmundsson believed in this context to be one of the best men we should have. And why? Because he has gone the longest in defending this constitution. In other words, I feel the same way I had in the fall when I said I would vote against the energy package that was then available. The energy pack itself, however, has changed. I challenge 'em. Today, members of the Central Party who have addressed this matter, that the same way that this energy package has changed since autumn, to be reasoned. You can't say this, and now that all three of the most important things have been answered, you can't say that. Stand here and say: " Still, we object, and we bara believe in Stefán Moy when he feels the same way as we do but forget it. 44 in his opinion when he feels otherwise. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u197	V.E.G. President. I'd like to respond to a speech. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon, who tells him that not all doubt has been answered in this matter, it has come to pass. And speaking of being on some special page is just not true, you just need to read everything considered, and then the right thing will be revealed. I'd like to ask you one question and ask if you can answer it, please. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon. There has been no indication that, as you point out, there is no negative about Icelandic energy. But then I'd like to point out that it is well possible that ESAs are dealing with a violation of the Treaty against Iceland, where the directive is not properly established because of the prevention. How will you answer that question? It is only very simple that these types are such, and the jurists question whether there is any authority or authority involved. And when we realize that people do not agree on them, we must want to take a closer look at them. What I mentioned, with the possible proprietor of ESAs because of the warnings, is a thing we cannot answer today, I know that, but the senator may be able to answer it or discuss it further. We Middle-class people are speaking here with full integrity, not with some delinquency or nonsense. That's a big misunderstanding. I can't wait to hear that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u198	It's directed to the president. Senators telling them to direct their words to the president. Otherwise, they witness to one another as a boy. A senator, then with a full name.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u199	A respectable president. I haven't taken that word into my mouth about the case since then. The members of the Central Party here are talking about national difficulties, much less nonsense. I'm simply trying to discuss this matter objectively. It may be, and, of course, there may always be a matter of concern. I can't answer that. Why do we have, both the one standing here and the other? For members of a different opinion, Stefánsson Már quoted the most? That's what I've done because he's been going the longest in these matters. All the others who have been called on to consider this matter have gone on for a short time and have considered this to be much more fine than Stefán Stefánsson has ever done. That's why we've all been here in this hall today, and yesterday, we've been giving a big witness to Stefán because he's been going the longest. I have considered myself to be the safest part of this matter, or the factors in the matter that lie to whether he is a power dealer or not at odds with a constitution, to rely on him for the reason I described, that he has gone the longest in all of this. And until now and until that very time, pp. 43 and 44, and then Stefán's opinion, as he describes after the Senate case, would be closer to the members of the Central Party, as I do myself; continuing to support the opinion of the scribes who want to go on to protect the constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u200	V.E.G. President. Yeah, I just want to say when I mentioned people's hearts and nonsense, okay? paritaprevir Páll Magnússon, I didn't mean you, and maybe I forgot to explain. However, today's debate is natural, that it is unnatural for the middle class to stand here and express their views. They should be no worse than others'opinions. But I think, too, because you're talking about, huh? A senator, the national opinion, the opinion of the scribes, and who are going the longest, we must also listen to the nation. 80% of the people today feel that it is a question to accept this exhilaration into power, assumed by the Parliament's decree. I'm very worried that it will be. [[The president calls.]] That's why I want us to be careful and listen to everyone's point of view, including the middle Party's viewpoint.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u201	A respectable president. I don't remember or I don't know what the tests are referring to the ratings on the third energy package, but somehow I'm thinking that I might be answering the question -- I could have answered it just the same way. I'm sure I was among those eight3% who a few months ago would have responded to this induction. I don't know that this third energy package, as it now turns to the Icelanders, has been investigated. It's different. This energy package is not the same as I was, e.g. In the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u202	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for his fine talk and for his sincerity, as well as his hope and direction. He's challenged us middle-class members to come to the Pontte and discuss the matter objectively, which I'll be courtesy of. He referred to Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, after the coming up of the council. It has a slightly different tone than the original rating, i.e. to the extent that the commanding problem has been delayed for now, i.e. The problem has not been solved, but it has been delayed for now. In chapter 6 of the original opinion, we will discuss how to react to the report of authors Stefán and Friðrik, a news committee, in which they respond to the comments of the Ministry, which on the part of which are presented, by permission of the president: ...to make ESAs based on 8. Regulation No. 713/2009 will not focus on individuals and legislators as such, but on national surveillance authorities (e.g. Energy agencies). However, in view of the authors'opinion, it does not change the centrality, that such ESA decisions will have a significant impact on the important individual interests and legislation in this country, including electronic energy companies and individual users of the electrical energy system. So I'd like to ask you why. Senator: Does he believe that by means of Regulation 713/2009 and 714/2009 in Icelandic it is weighed or question whether it will last or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u203	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I was wondering when he opened his talk earlier on the day when Stefán began to feel at his home. He has for two days, or so he has listened to us, one over against another, what he didn't say, on which page he said it, and on which page he didn't say it, he said it after the matter of the assembly, or before the matter of the assembly? He's probably having a great time. Then I'm going to witness to him just one more time to answer, or - I'm really losing my mind and confidence to answer that question on my own. A senator asked earlier if I felt that these specific points were not obligatory to the Constitution. I'm still on my way to Stefán Stefánsson. And as for, let's just say legal things, I don't think there's any better support in this matter than to the extent of what it has to do with the constitution and the possible power supply, as included in the question, than to refer exactly to what he said. It is true that this administrative issue, in itself, is delayed and is not considered until if and when we intend to connect with the European energy market through a string. And that's when the opinion comes back. Then we'll share here again. Then we will again continue to talk about what Stefán said or did not say.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u204	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. The reason I asked is that in the synopsis proposal says, by permission of a president: This proposal will be agreed with Regulation (EC) No. 713/2009 introduced in Icelandic just the usual way -- then goes on - ◯en legally in advance. We must ask ourselves, " Why the legal arrangement? ' It's been discussed over and over again today. It's for wearing belts and bracelets. But does that really work? The belt is holding? Is that why they're talking? Are the bands on your shoulders, or are they downside? Will this be so when it comes to the legal defenses being held, or could it be that it will bring about possible damages to governments in the process, perhaps years or decades after this law is passed? I wonder, therefore, why do I want to go more gently to the ground than to the ground? Senator and follow the European Economic Convention, please follow Article 102. Turned the matter into terms of reconciliation on the EEA Committee as a team. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u205	The President reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u206	V.E.G. President. I may not have much to add to what I said before. Rather, it was the foreword in the manner of a question. A senator? Well, to the best man's perspective, which was used in terms of the fine scholars before then, the matter is clear and okay, as it stands today. I don't know how to answer any questions that would include if and if it were to be. Of course, some aspects of the matter are addressed to the treatment and discussion of the committee at the time of the committee. State Department. But I have nothing to say about the answer to make up for what I said before in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u207	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. There has been talk of legal warnings and legitimate and natural speculations as to whether they will be held. It may be appropriate to review the so - called raw meat. We know that there were laws, laws, or laws on food and animal diseases, changed in terms of the requirement for cryoconservation. By then the government thought that it was solved that raw meat would not be brought in here. What happened in that regard? Yes, we know that. It was judged illegal, and we need to change the law to allow the import of raw meat. Hence, it is normal to compare it with this matter. This is the time to put a law here, alter the electronic law, to put this in advance. If so, why not? A senator, that they will be judged illegally in the same manner as that of the freezing duty? Where, then, are we? Is it not better to refer this matter to the joint EEA committee for permanent notice and not to take the risk of changing the electronic law? It's been mentioned here, huh? paritaprevir Una María Óskarsdóttir mentioned that ESAs could sue us for the violation of the contract. That's a risk to us. That's why I think it's very important to get it to know if there's any danger that we could be exposed to the same thing that happened to the freezing family. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u208	A president still reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u209	A respectable president. However, in the legal sense and as a legal player in this regard, I would like to argue that in that legal sense, this matter has little in common with the matter of frozen meat. I think the misunderstanding with frozen meat is quite a factor in the use of words at the council. Of course, freezing meat is raw meat; it is not cooked meat. I think those of the present who apply to the meat matter, as it did, by the three judgment points, I think I'll be right on it, have little in common with the contingency of the third energy package. I'll admit it, and I'm not gonna pretend to know more than I know, or I'm gonna understand more than I have a legal current on this matter. I personally count and quote the legal decisions and legal groups that represent the case at the council, and we've read that these matters are handled as well and legally as possible. Of course, that does not rule out everything, much of it can be reported, perhaps all of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u210	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I think it's a very normal cheek, because it's the same thing as a sign in between. There's a parallel between these cases because in the cryo-related case, let's put it this way, we tried to make sure this is not going to be brought in raw meat. Changed the law, as I traced earlier, and set out a requirement for freezing duty. Then it is judged illegal, and we cannot reach a conclusion about that matter unless we change the law and allow the import of raw meat. The same is true in that sense, then. A senator, that we are setting warnings that we believe will ensure that we do not have to subject ourselves to this common authority, as it were, about the energy market. Then there may be a situation where they will be judged illegally. Instead of going that way for this notice, hopefully through the joint EEA committee. [[The president calls.]] This process is much simpler and more natural.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u211	A respectable president. I'll think of, when we're looking at the history of raw meat or frozen meat, we've created it, for whatever reason. A senator described such a special version by creating this term and applying it to the freeze duty that we called it, and so it went with the Icelandic edition as well as it is known. I think this already existing legal management strategy, and we're taking a stand on it simply in that way he, at least He convinces me, is as good as it's chosen. It may be that in the case of a committee, there may be some viewpoint on the particulars of the case or on the particulars of the case, but as I see it, this mechanism is in a way that I trust it as it does. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u212	V.E.G. President. We are discussing a proposal for interpretation of the decision made by the European Commission, No. 93/2017, change of IV. The addition to the EEA Convention, the third energy package, to enter certain types, such as the Constitution itself, a total of eight forms, and to confirm the decision made in May 2017 by the European Commission. V.E.G. Last night the minister of state spoke the matter carefully and carefully, reviewing many of the issues that have raised questions, causing many to be disturbed and to present themselves in the discussion. I want to reiterate immediately at the beginning of my speech that I consider it perfectly normal in my previous letter. about the same size. Many things have been well discussed, as could be expected in previous years. At that point, everything is as it should be, I think, all questions about the subject are raised to the point of debate. A foreign business committee, which gets the case we're discussing, and why. The job committee, which receives the topics we will discuss later, can take the discussion with them on the subject. It's important. This issue is that many questions arise, and especially since there has been a lot of discussion and for quite a while, it has been a tough decade in the introduction process, including to the Parliament's committees on administrative matters. Since the decision of the joint EEA committee, the situation has been at the highest level. A government in preparation, State Department of State and Professional Railroads, with regard to these issues and related issues, and more and more in the process of discussion in the community and in the media. We might ask ourselves, " Why are we initiating these laws? ' Energy and energy exchange regulations have been part of the EEA contract since the start of the 1994 Convention, where energy is defined as a product and so falls under the four freedoms. Many companies work in the environment that we can call IV. The appendix. Our company thus enjoys the same environment as other companies on that market. I think it's important, since our company is getting a little bit of benefit from it. Then the legislation turns to consumers' grounds, environmental protection and improved competitiveness. It can be continued with a discussion of the related issues; innovation in this field of energy-friendly solutions, etc. Iceland has developed considerable exports of energy at the time of exporting Icelandic companies, such as Marel, Skakinn 3X and Valka. We even move. fueling for Holland. Industrial companies produce electronic devices and sell at the market in Europe based on the energy markings of a product falling under the EEA Convention. Thus, it is a broad range of interests, as it is when it comes to innovation and pioneering in the field of Icelandic green energy solutions and their possible export to the market in Europe. I think that in the future, we will further try to have access to the inner markets when it comes to them. Hv. The management committee, under the guidance of the Commission and the monitoring committee, is expected to be very well acquainted with the administrative concerns that have been a great deal for discussion, and this is a major factor. How important it is that we consider these matters in committees! This includes a third pack of energy, such as the first two, in terms of consumer rights and consumer protection, access to electricity transport and distribution systems, market transparency, separation of competitiveness and so on. However, there are future issues that we will discuss, on the increase of independence and the increased resources of the Energy Agency for monitoring. In the case we discuss, General's authorization to confirm the decision of the joint EEA committee, the administrative applications related to the state's foreign office were the most discussed with the Constitution and whether it conflicts with a constitution and whether the two-found system is being implemented. For a long time in the presentation process, the discussion at the council and the committees had much to do with the two supporting solutions, as is often the case. The main factor of the matter is that the Commission's partnership of the energy market, ACER, which has the role of settling differences, in the case of national monitoring authorities, is responsible for cross-border infrastructure and exchange of energy. This is the opinion given by law - trained specialists, and much has been quoted in the discussion. It is natural and essential for us in this discussion to have such opinions, and in reality it is an example of the need for effective action to be done and to look for. in the carpenter of those who become familiar in that field of command. In this way, the Ministry of State consulted four Icelandic scholars for the opinion of administrative concerns that might be involved in the case of induction and recording of the third energy package in Icelandic rights. Then the Ministry of prose and innovation came to two lawyers and all and the memos of this material are tore up in the Parliament's interpretation form and referred to as a copy. The short story is this: To most of them, the implementation of the third energy package is according to a constitution according to the Icelandic regulation. According to Skúli Magnússon's findings at the University of Iceland law, sales of authority through the implementation of the third energy package, as the implementation of the EEA Convention by Decision of the European Commission, would be in line with Icelandic legislation. Dr. Björgvinsson Björgvin's Þór prepared a memo on the matter, and his conclusion is that a possible doubt about the expeditation of authority has been overcome by adjustment to the two support systems of the EEA Convention by decision made by the European Commission. Stefán Stefánsson, Professor emerius, and Brother Friðrik Friðriksson Hirst, a lawyer who has been referred to by a large number of those who have given a warning during the discussion. This is normal because they go the longest in their ability to leave doubt and a warning that this will last for a constitution and for the elimination of a warning. The scholars are very careful in the opinion that unchanged, as the case came from the joint EEA committee and was laid to the foundation, of the exercise of power to ESA, according to the third energy package, including According to Article 8. Regulation No. 713/2009, who makes it clear that the ACER Group is not the basis for Iceland's lift-off of administrative warnings. But they also offer solutions. They're setting two ways. One of them has left here, and another example of careful preparation to the highest level. A minister has chosen to seek all the means and take the desired route. The other way, then, must be more harsh and heavier. A respectable president. It is the responsibility of the Committee to carefully review the methods that are to be torn down and carefully considered whether this route works out and if the other way is possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u213	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson for his fine passage. However, I would like to ask the senator about mbl.is today, since the Senate has begun to quote the Internet, by permission of the president: ▪ If you become a member of the Council's Conspiracy Guide of the God of Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson, the minister of the Foreign Minister's Department's third energy package of the EU agreed at the General Assembly and have further success at the Council's Council, our union groups will examine the ability to collect signatures and challenge the President of Iceland to use a noxious force against the elements associated with the energy package. This is what Frosti Sigurjónsson, former senator of the Future Party and one of the prime ideologies. I also mention the comments of the late Kristinn son of Gissurarson, a prominent member of the global advance party, set out on the Internet by permission of the President's permission: Let's not be led off the cliff. Consider the future for future generations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u214	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I'm not sure that questions necessarily followed. But certainly a witness was given. A senator to the speaking of men I have had many conversations with, and he knows their opinion. I have no choice here but to discuss the matter of Congress that is on the program, which is most about the opinions of the Icelandic constitution. I'm just there. I always respect the opinions of others, but I don't talk about them as close as possible. A senator testified because this is a solution for and in reality has a previous frame of view. Don't convince me that this way isn't good. I think that's what we're talking about. The committee will discuss this very carefully and carefully. We are very diligent in quoting the words of those who are behind the ultimate solution. The Minister of Foreign Affairs selects in this matter when bringing the matter into the council, i.e. the solution suggested by the scribes Stefán Motor Stefánsson and the Friðriksson Furksson Hirst in his opinion, one of them. As soon as we find out about it in the Morning Press today that an organization like our Energy is going to go this way or apply the cause of denial or push it over, StephenMar says when he is asked whether this is the law of the constitution, with the permission of a president: 'We believe this is the indentation of the law, but the law is not made until the decision is made to lay down a sea cable. [[The president calls.]] We are actually postponing the decision - making process, including that of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u215	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I'll take this tip of his. However, the talk lacked a direct question. Well, I'll just make it right then. I quote political conclusions. It is natural to be intrigued by the way the matter is developing. By permission of the President, according to the resolution of the forward party council: The mission team defends Iceland's energy-industry countries and rejects the European Union's energy legislation as part of the European Commission Convention on the European Economic Area. This is the resolution of the Continental Assembly in February 2018. I think it's normal for senators to be curious when things develop in this way. And in view of the instructions I quoted in the previous answer, I also wondered about the only study I have ever conducted with the nation at the third energy package. It shows that no less than 88.5% of the candidates are opposed. Although this is not exactly the case, it is normal to be curious. That's why I'm asking. A senator, and correct the note I received in the previous reply: Does not the leadership of the advance party speak for the people's will?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u216	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question. He clearly asks whether the senators of the Foreign Party don't speak for their people's will. I know this party plan from a mid-term meeting. A fall. Will our party be ours? Yes, I appreciate it so much that we're on the same side. I have no alternative as a senator but to follow my convictions and to consider matters that we discuss at one time. Now we're discussing this council resolution that's dealing with this very specific case, and we're trying here, the senators of the House to help us deal with it. This will discuss whether or not the source required for the third energy package will run a constitution. I concentrate on examining the opinion of these scholars, reading all the evidence on the subject, and answering whether it is or not. I trusted in continued work at the back of my head. The Foreign Affairs Commission will follow a previous heading. with all the questions that have been raised and considered. Otherwise, we work according to our own conclusions and do so in good faith.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u217	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a proposal for interpretation of the decision made by the Joint Commission No. 93/2017. As we have seen today, a vast amount of work is behind us. V.E.G. The minister of foreign affairs gave a speech here and made the proposal clear earlier today. Many have expressed themselves, and I believe that the discussion has been a good one. This is natural in view of such an important issue that the discussion takes place until the evening. There are conflicting opinions, and that's what I think is totally normal. Since men have witnessed back and forth to scholars, I intend to leave it in this speech; rather, I will try to identify myself with those outside the councilhouse, the public who is at home, as it were. I can see that the public is quite ambiguous, even in return, as seen by some polls. It is our responsibility in this house to inform the common people about how these matters are being handled. That's the key. I'll bet you that I've been frying to and from where to where to go, and this discussion has helped today. Granted, when matters come to be for Congress, they will have to be determined, and we must be clear about the need for trust. Trust is given to the council to discuss such a matter that is of utmost importance. The public needs to gain confidence in what we are doing. I have great confidence in this institution. I trust her to make the right decision in this matter. That's for sure. I also have great confidence in those who come along to discuss this matter on a committee and roll on every rock and conclude, hopefully, that we are on the right track. I'm no scholar, but I usually listen to people who know more than I do. I have to say in this part of the discourse that at times, people may have gone a little out of the way of interpreting what others have said and if they have not been content with what they read. However, for many years there is tremendous work to do. Ten years have been said to do so. We'll have to pay attention to this kind of thing. And I never believe that those who work so hard on this thing are just doing, like you say, laugh at people. And we also have to believe what to do when they say where we're going, we're not giving up a sovereignty, we're not saying goodbye to our energy resources, etc. That's key. We're dealing with the nation's shoreline, one of the nation's major races, and it's only natural that the public is weak over it. It may also be normal when we see the discussion upstairs, a so-called "no." She's everywhere. We will also need to share the right message with the public what this involves. There's been a lot of notices in this opinion. As I've understood the discussion, it's all supposed to be okay with us in this regard. It will not happen in itself until a cable is laid, and then the council will be the one to decide. It is also fascinating to wonder about what things are like in Norway and how the Norwegian people see their objects. True, they are linked, but it is perfectly clear to them that they have authority over their energy resources. They also determine whether a cord is injected to them or to them. That's a very big thing. At this point, I will not extend my case any further but simply underline this: Have confidence in the work being done here at the High Council. May we have confidence in those who work hard. A foreign - language committee and that this leads to success in this matter. It's very important. And as a result, I believe that no matter where we're going, the public will be with us. We've been getting a little carried away with the advance that we're not following what we say on party favors, etc. But then I'd like to say something. A senator who spoke before me, Willum Þór Þórsson's son, that we work on our best convictions. We are trusted to do so, and it is true of all members of this house that we are not going to do anything that harms our people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u218	V.E.G. President. It's a great Senate home. In 1918 the Icelanders said no. As a result, Iceland's sovereignty. In 1944, Icelanders said no. This led to the Republic of Iceland. In 1975, Icelanders said no. As a result, Iceland's fishing story was moved to 200 miles. In 2011, Icelanders said no. As a result, Iceland was rescued from bankruptcy. Nice senators. I feel that this matter should be over a group of political lines, and I also hear it on the people who were before me, perhaps mostly the candidates, that they think it too, they think it's important that all the views and the best solution are taken. Why do we need to agree with the types 714/2009 and 715/2009 if they are not made to benefit until and if a cable is passed from Iceland? I'm just asking. Why do members of Parliament and secretary of foreign affairs want to bind Iceland, as these types assume? Of course, it is quite clear that the European Union needs help to meet its terms on green energy. We might well imagine that the relationship also wants our clean water and clean air. Who knows? Is it possible that a pack of four energy contains just one set of rules? We want Iceland to control its energy resources and make decisions and not be subject to the European Union. There have been many opinions and names mentioned by the two jurists. The two people who have been often referred to, Stefán Már Stefánsson and Friðriksson Furksson Hirst, believe that it is logical and indeed inevitable that a policy view of controlled standards related to a energy pack of three, i.e. of authority's entitlement. According to Skúli Magnússon's report, the view that a deed of power is necessary because international agreements require it and devote it to the interests of the State. In addition, other opinions have been made, and then other opinions have been made by scholars who would be good for a foreign government committee to come to them. Because of the fact that there is evidence of authority and authority, the middle-class members believe that the matter of sea cables is simply not enough. She's not strong enough for us. As I mentioned earlier in the form of an ESA case, a contract violation, against Iceland where the directive is not legally established on this notice. There has been no discussion of this in a Senate Hall, and no doubt it would be necessary to do so. It is our precious possession; the energy, the fish, the water, and the air. Since there is a doubt about government-like sources, as has been noted so many times, mainly by 713/2009 and 714/2009, I wish that members of the council would take account of these sources, listen to the country, and consider the common EEA committee. There should be no problem, and it's okay, nothing happens. It's only a good idea if the Icelanders have the good fortune to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u219	Mr. President. Now that the discussion is well along, it has been called for more attention to the last pages of Árni the Friðriksson of Hirst and the Friðrik of Friurk, son of Friurk. I intend to. Of course, the group of responds with great interest in the discussion for the simple reason that it applies to the way in which a foreign minister, the government, and the administrative body are proposed to do so. Hence, it is only natural for her to get very detailed and extensive discussions, as it has been. It is about solutions, possible solutions, chapter 5, of the definition in the smaller print on page. 7, which says, by permission of the president: The basis of the provision for ESA according to the third energy package, including According to Article 8. Regulation No. 713/2009, does not make room within the Republic of Iceland's Constitution, No. 33/144, it is clear that there is no basis for the overall relief of the overall energy pack and that neither will the third energy pack be introduced into the Icelandic national rights unchanged. On the other hand, if the overall structure of governance is maintained, this means that the EEA/EFTA countries, [...] This calls for reconciliation at the site of the Common EEA Committee, cr. 102st. The contract.How's it going? They further say: The EU/EFTA countries, on the basis of their national legislation in the areas to which the EEA treats, whether unchanged or adjusted... Go on says: ▪ In view of this, Iceland seems closer to looking for solutions that are involved in adjusting the third energy package's provision so that they can fit into the limitations of the Constitution, such as ESA, to the State's office. The next reference will be to a second solution, perhaps a third energy package that will be produced in Icelandic on a legal basis. In the conclusion section, the last paragraph of this possible solution is exactly the same, and there is hardly any variation. They say there's a possible solution, Mr. President. So this is the situation. That possible solution is unscrupulous. It will not be discussed in this opinion. There are a few lines down in chapter 5 and a few lines in the conclusion phase, and this is the same text for the main policy. The route is unscrupulous. It has not been claimed to the fine scholars involved in this matter. The following questions, then, are the most important: What is the force of the legal premise designed to deal with the national commitment that we deal with by restoring the governmental premise so that this synopsis will be approved? What are the faults they repeatedly say are on the issue of solution? She's not perfect. What is the experience of the way of reconciliation that they present and point to the 102nd and 103th grade? [[The president calls.]] The EEA Treaty? Is this an adventure, Mr. President, as they seem to indicate or completely realistic an option we should take? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u220	Mr. President. I have to ask the following questions as a senator: Has there been a decision on a management committee linked to a energy package three? I repeat, before the General Assembly approves the third energy package? Given the nature and impact of ESA decisions on the basis of section 8. Regulation No. 713/2009 and that they are not such being revised by Icelandic courts is considered to be strict demands that the office of authority meets the administrative standards that are traceable here. In view of the above, it is difficult to view the expansive office of the State under Article 8. Regulations 713/2009 are well-defined and clearly defined. Rather, it seems to be viewed as a factor of ESA authority according to Article 8. The Regulation would be vague and subject to interpretations of the terms presented. It is not possible to realize how ESAs will explain their authority, according to Article 8. The Regulation, however, will be expected to interpret the convincing authority rights of the Agency and to the EU countries will therefore have a major impact along with the European Commission's earlier reference guidelines. At the very least, the separation and definition of the selected extravasation to ESA can not be considered to be the norm. The Regulation meets the rich requirements of authority in this regard. In this regard, ESA decisions are designed to be considered mainly on the 8th basis. It is not only directed by local authorities but, in fact, has to do with the important individual interests and legislation as well as the rich public interest in electricity systems and its use, as stated earlier. It must then be taken into account the major impact ACER has on ESA decision-making as determined by Article 8. This Regulation, as discussed in the above sections. Such arrangements also have a negative impact on the two support systems of the EEA Convention. I repeat, with the permission of the President: This arrangement also involves the two support systems of the EEA Convention, which is among the guidelines considered in terms of whether the sale of state power to international institutions will remain within the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u221	V.E.G. President. We are still discussing a proposal for interpretation on the confirmation of the decision made by the European Commission No. 93/2017, change of IV. Annex to the EEA Convention, third energy package. I gave a speech today and spent my lung off the speaking lesson in talking about the frame of the Senate arrangement. So they're lower in size than the bills, and they don't come to the decision or entry of the President of Iceland, as Congress is about minor things or are not of the same hurt as the prime products. I was talking about how I couldn't figure out why this route had gone. V.E.G. President. These discussions have taken a long time. For me, things have gone a lot, and sometimes I find it hard to understand the excitement of many, and a lot of emphasis on putting this synonym through, what to say, rather exhilarating. I point out that the input of the energy package is a very controversial and that most of the nation is probably opposed to its induction. Once again, I would like to quote the suggestions of someone other than the front name Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson. He offered himself another way and a better way. It was turning down the energy package and talking about leaving with the EEA joint committee, an exception to it. This proposal is not for clothing, and I ask why. In addition to the Commission's work, Iceland granted an exception from implementing EU legislation on natural gas because this is not a natural gas product. It could also give Iceland an exception from EU legislation on the common electricity market because Iceland is not connected at all to that market. That's the way we're supposed to go about it because it's gonna destroy any uncertainty. V.E.G. President. It's not complicated. When the Constitution itself is possibly at stake, we must be able to take a careful step to the earth. It is clear to everyone that the induction can bring great financial benefits to many. However, their interests must always be replaced, and if there is any doubt about it, they must be destroyed. I'd like to point out that the guys in charge have not kept up until now, rather than warning against the import of meat. The Universal Declaration, or other National Parliaments, does not hold on to the EU. And in connection with the introduction to many EU types, I remember last winter a case that came up, the EEA model that discussed the job driver's rights. This went into the regulations of 2015, and the law discussed that professionals who earn money from driving trucks or buses or such cars have to take courses five times a year and pay for them themselves to keep their license. But these laws, when introduced, apply only to EU countries where countries live, not to islands. I'd like to point out that a large number of groups of all categories, cross-cutting groups, are deeply concerned about the whole and that, the highest. President, there's a lot of experts, too. But I would also like to point out that many of those who initially arrived at the EEA Convention say that this directive should be rejected and referred back to the joint EEA committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u222	V.E.G. President. This discussion will conclude with regard to many fine things. But hopefully she was good for those outside the house who have observed the discussion. I hope the discussion has shed light on this complex matter. Hopefully, the debate that has taken place has proved that it is not an empty conglomerate that the Central Party has done a hard thing in the discussion. We have not been afraid, despite the discussion, but we have merely sought to express the doubts that are not enough to secure the interests of the Icelandic government, to ensure that the Constitution is not broken or passed, so it is quite clear that the rights of the Icelanders to control their resources, over the largest resource our energy is. I want to use this opportunity to give my best commendation. Secretary of State for having been here in the hall and in the house almost all the discussion. It is a thing that we senators appreciate when ministers are available, listen to the discussion with interest, and take an interest in it. The members of the Central Party have not only suggested that the compromise is not what we have wanted it to be, we have also pointed out that there are solutions. We have noted that if the energy package as it is currently rejected and reaches the European Commission, we can arrange for Regulations 713 and 714 of the 2009 European Commission regulations to be taken into account in Icelandic rights. By negotiating this on the joint committee, we can all doubt that after that we can adopt the directive as we have adopted all EU directives that we have been right. We haven't denied an order, and we don't have to do it now if this one is fixed as we suggest. We have warned, and will continue to do so in the next case, the international institution called ACER and its effect. We will find that better in our next discussion. But I say again, if the Regulation 713 and 714 separates us when we make this design, we should be pretty sure that we have a full authority here, that we have gone as far as we can, not to isolate us, but to remain in good relations with the EEA, as we have been to this point, and that this introduction will be made as always on our terms, not on the grounds of the European Union, but on the grounds of the Icelands. If we who are in this room and are trying to explain to those outside it, we cannot explain to them how the situation is, not to people, but to us. Then we haven't worked enough, have not spoken clearly enough. However, we have tried to speak as clearly as possible to establish why this energy package cannot be approved as it remains. We hope that the people listened and joined us. We know that a greater proportion of Icelanders are opposed to taking up the third energy package; 91.6% of the members of the Independence Party last year, 91.1% of our people, 86% of the candidates, i.e. The root of grass, 65% even by the woodland. The majority of the people in the country are opposed to taking up this matter the way it is assigned. That is why I hope that in the commission work we have the advantage of making the changes in the language that can be introduced on the basis of our Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u223	Mr. President. I'm going to go to my second speech only to set up the ground where it needs to go as far as Már Stefánsson and the Friðrik Friðriksson Hirst proposed as a possible solution - a solution that the government chose for the council and we'll discuss here. In a report on the board of directors, Stefán Már wrote on the President's website: In this way, the administrative issue is set aside and the Regulation is introduced on the grounds that its regulations regarding the transfer of electrical energy across the border are not applicable here. I'm asking, "What if this situation doesn't work out? " Also, I ask, " What does that mean, that the problem is laid aside at one time? ' When might this time mark appear to us? Then, with the permission of a president, he says: The proposal for this solution is that a third supply of energy does not put an obligation in Iceland to establish cross-border infrastructure. Rather, it is a decision on Iceland's custody. I ask: What if the fact that the professor brings up a failure and this does not prove to be the custody of the Icelanders because of the national commitments we deal with? Does the third pack of energy lay on us this responsibility? Mr. President. Is it true that it is being suggested that the third energy package places some obligation in Iceland, to put infrastructure across borders if e.g. the search for it? Have scholars given further or more accurate opinions on the path chosen? No, they haven't even been asked. This solution is made clear by members of the Generals, along with their supporters, who have repeatedly examined it. The case was considered so well. Is that so? No, this route has not been investigated and counted, Mr. President, eight lines in their opinion, ending with the words: 'This solution, however, is not flawless. I think they jumped on it in a hurry. Why has this route not been studied better than it did? Don't they know where they're going? In fact, if they don't know where they're going, it doesn't matter which way they're going, because they only land them somewhere. So, what is the point of rejecting this particular part of the principle that has truly been the greatest among scholars? What's wrong with that? What happens then? The matter will simply be carried out by the European Commission on the 102rd st. The EEA Convention, No. 2/1993, involved in the matter and seeking to solve it. But this, of course, is very dangerous. It could bring us Icelanders back to the Stone Age. The main issue of solution is whether this rule runs in any way contrary to our constitution. I have considered it this way, if there is any doubt about whether this is the case, of course, to explain the doubts of the constitution. And there's a doubt? Yeah, just plain. It's there. With the Congress resolution proposal that we are beginning to discuss, we will accept the energy package as it is available. We're subsidizing Iceland's administrative notice of the regulations, a warning set out by the European Commission on May 5, 2017, to intervene in the EEA contract as the package is included. It is estimated that Iceland has to believe that in this country there has to be a legal adjustment in the recording of the rules, so the survival of the Council had to be done according to Article 21. The constitution. By approval of this Parliamentary proposal, Iceland has already undergone an adjustment of the law here in accordance with the EU energy package and that this is not a restricted law, including the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland. We've thus undertook this energy law of the Union. Mr. President. We have many questions left behind, and hopefully we can discuss this matter in detail, and the basics and their controversies. I expect the members of the Council to receive this matter into their own table. They call to their attention the leading experts in this field.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u224	Mr. President. I'd like to start by making a comment on the language or something. paritaprevir Kárason Björn's son. He came here earlier tonight in a paper that showed that energy in Iceland had only a small amount since 2006. This is misleading information from the backwaters. A senator because the first energy package laws are valid in 2003, and this is primarily the one that becomes greatly elevated, especially as a house warmer. Therefore, it provides a very incorrect overview of what really happened during the induction of the first energy package. House - to - house electrical prices and electrical transfers greatly increased. To this end, I'm going to continue with the disappearances of my talk list as early as I was at the end of today, moving toward what is for the Norwegians, and it's been observed in the language of those who are supplied with this pack of energy. They have said that the Norwegian Convention was strengthened by the heavy industry when the Norwegians seared. They also say that the Norwegians have the option to export their electricity if the industry does not want to pay the price. Then you ask yourself, " Is it not a concern that the printing companies just shut down and thus hundreds of people lose their jobs? ' Indeed, the point is to say something. According to the Parliamentary Directive, the recording of the third energy package in the EEA Treaty does not involve any obligation or commitment of the Icelandic government to connect with the European Union's common electronic energy system through translucency or otherwise. It's a natural key. This means that there is a warning, which is actually based on our not being connected to the European Union's electronic energy system and that it would only happen by means of a cable. This is certainly a lawsuit held here all day by those in charge and those who follow this proposal. It is now that it is only a matter of time when such a cord will be realized. The Icelandic government, according to 8. g., required to support the plans for such a string. This is a classic fraud in Icelandic politics for the followers of this proposal. By agreeing with this matter, the soil is being prepared. That's obvious. Then everything is ready to receive the cable and it will come and be accepted. All it takes is the Conspiracy and the government restoration, and then it goes through as we know it. Mr. President. It is right to agree on how the criteria have changed in a variety of ways since the EEA Convention went into effect. This is what I've been doing, but I'd like to tie it up for a while. It may be noted that former minister of foreign affairs, Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, one of the main experts at the time of the EEA contract, has said that it was never expected and never discussed a common energy market in that contract, much less the food legislation that has been made, and will have a profound impact on our fine agriculture. There are two major cases that no one saw fit to enter this contract. The bottom line is, the EEA deal adopted at the council 25 years ago is not the EEA deal we are on today. It is crystalting in this large matter under consideration. Finally, Mr. President. This contract is always being added to large groups of people who were never introduced. [[The president calls.]] We do not have to rid ourselves of all that is added to this agreement. [[The president calls.]] The Norwegians rejected the mail decree, and nothing happened. We're supposed to refuse this energy package, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]] Then and only then will we continue to enjoy cheap electrical energy available to homes and companies in our country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u225	V.E.G. President. Much of this has been done for a good discussion, which has been objective in the chapters and in most cases, although something has been missing in some cases. But sometimes I have felt that there have been some misunderstandings. On the one hand, there have been discussions about the interconnectors and the sea cables only and that there are built-up terms that should appear in the legal bill and that there are absolutely certain that no sea cable will be placed in or out of Iceland except by the majority will of the General Assembly. Other couriers, or representatives of this synonym, formed a surrogacy proposal. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einar Einarsson, president of the United States, has spoken of the fact that there will never be a sea cable here. He speaks in the same way about climate and green energy, it's important to help Europe in the big context. But there is a danger that we can help unless we can get the energy to Europe. It will not be different from the sea cables, at least not according to the technology we live in today. Middleclass people have talked about the legitimate procedure for bringing in the energy package, the Icelandic constitution. The Icelandic Constitution has grown so silent that it is available when it comes to handing government over to international institutions. For example, in a series of articles by fellow members of Stefán Motorsson and Stefánsson's Friðriksson Friðrik Hirst, see section 4.2.2 on page 20. 27 That no clear record can be found in the Icelandic government directive for the State Hall to the international institutions, as mentioned earlier. This quotes a source written by no less attorney than the Björg Thorarensen. In this case, I'd like to quote your report again, by permission of the president. On page 18. 25 says: ▪ As noted earlier, most rules involving power production to ESA have access to infrastructure across borders and their management security. Such infrastructures, e.g. A cable has not been established here. This does not change, however, that a third pack of energy will not be recorded in Icelandic national rights unless it lasts for the constitution. Will the decision of the General Assembly on the possibility that national infrastructure will be implemented, but under these circumstances, the proposed energy supply would be tested to the ESA, particularly under the Regulation No. 713/2009 V.E.G. President. Now the fourth energy pack is on its way, and it's undisputed. Professors and law offices in the world are writing about what it contains and what will come about for change. It provides regulations from 713 and 714 of 2009 exactly as part of the third energy package that will turn into a pack of four. This is taken into account in the legal entity that is presented by men and told them that by setting legal warnings against the regulations as they are currently being carried out, they will retain legal warnings about the Regulation in a four energy package when introduced. I'm worried about it and again that I think it's best that we reject the production proposed here and refer it to the Joint EEA Committee where we can negotiate on the basis of the EEA Convention. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u226	A respectable president. I'd like to use this opportunity to thank the members of the Parliament for what they've suggested today and yesterday on the matter of this resolution. Many viewpoints have developed, and some of them are designed to make the discussion more beneficial. I remind you that when a third energy package was identified, concern was focused mainly on two aspects, on the fact that certain measures involved a violation of a constitution of power overexpensive power and that it involves the obligation to place an electronic cable between Iceland and the EU's internal market. That criticism was taken very seriously during the preparation. We have sought advice from our most respected experts in that area. All experts agree that the recording and implementation of the third energy package in Icelandic just as I have suggested does not involve any administrative problems. In addition, all experts agree that the decision-making of a transpiration cable between Iceland and the EU internal energy market lies exclusively at the World Council, not in the EU, not in the ACER, not in the ESA only, with us Icelanders. Whether we participate in a common market with electrical power through cables is totally in the power of us generals and future council members. The legal premeditation of Iceland, on this fact, is based. In this regard it is also very important to share a common understanding of the EU energy manager with regard to the uniqueness of the European Union's common energy market. Also, the experts who have been consulted agree that the common understanding builds a strong foundation for the induction. Although the declaration does not have a legal influence, it does have a legal significance, and it shows that our parties have the same understanding as we do on the basis of the induction. A respectable president. This case has been in preparation for government and Generalis for nine years. When the present government came to the matter, I am speaking of the government of Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, who had given up his opinion on the matter, as it were to those who have been traced into the documents, and who have come to pass. in answer to ask why. paritaprevir Kárason Björn's son. However, I and the government made the decision to go back over the matter, to make more difficult for people to worry about, as mentioned, and to bring in the matter so that it was not only a belt but also a bracelet and even more lip gloss. I think it was wise, and I think it's helpful to have it done with the details of Congress files for all who are interested in researching the matter. Today, it is Generalis to proceed, and I trust that it will continue to be carried out carefully and carefully. According to the nature of the case, members of Congress call those who handle matters to those whom they consider necessary to study the matter and consider the basic evidence. Thanks again for the discussion, and I hope that all the discussion will cause the facts to be brought to light and that we will see to it that everyone can be at peace. A respectable president. I understand that when things like this appear, many Icelanders, and perhaps all, approach to be careful and there's no disagreement. But I say, as I mentioned at the beginning of my short speech, that all experts involved in this case agree to cause when it comes to a link with the EU electricity market are one of our Icelanders. If we do so, hopefully we will agree with the existing basics, it is stated even more clearly that the Allied Council will address these issues if there is ever any idea of such connections.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u227	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct the conversion of power laws and energy laws on Energy Institute, EU rules, substantial regulations, on deck. 1242. This bill suggests some changes in electrical law, No. 65/2003, and No. 87/2003, about the Power Institute, due to the induction of the third energy directive of the European Parliament and the Council on common rules on the internal market for electricity. Materially, the changes depend primarily on the independence of the energy monitoring Agency according to the directive's requirements. The bill suggests that the energy monitoring of the Power Management Agency will be reinforced by further clarifying the role and independence of the Power Agency when the Agency supervises the monitoring of citizens of the electricity market. Similarly, in order to carry out its own surveillance duties independently, the bill suggests that the Power Institute will be entrusted with additional resources to enforce the electronic law. Third, the bill is suggested to raise enough money to cover the costs of monitoring under the law, the so-called electronics fee. The Directive 2009/722/EC outlines common rules for the manufacture, transport, distribution and delivery of electricity, as well as for consumer protection. The directive eliminates the value of other EU electricity directives from 2003. The main changes to EU third electricity directive for Iceland from the previous directive are mainly two types. First of all, the Directive calls for the owner's separation of transport companies from other businesses of energy markets, such as 9. The order. Targets at 9. It is preventing the use of stakeholders and the public host and the transport manager. The decision made by the European Commission on May 5, 2017, is made by a Member State of the 9th sector. The directive and its claim for the owner's separation in transport companies. So in our case, it is entirely in our hands to determine how the holding of Landsnet, which is our defined shipping company, is best placed and is now a working group working on that matter, as I have previously reported. Second, the directive's regulations for the electrical monitor are more detailed than those of previous orders. The requirements for independence are set out by the person responsible for the monitoring of the electrical market. According to a previous electrical directive, the patrol officer was to be independent of energy companies. In contrast, the third directive requires that the patrol be not only independent from the economy but also toward governments and ministers. The bill therefore suggests that the independence of the energy monitoring plant will be clearly explained. In order for the Power Institute to perform its legal electrical monitoring by its own independent and adequate means and to meet the new tasks required by the third energy directive, the bill suggests that the electricity monitoring fee is set at 31 p.m. Electrical power layer rising by 45%. In this regard, the electricity monitoring rate was last increased in December 2011. A comparison between the second and third energy directives of the EU shows an increase in the activity of the electrical Commission. These include: 1st New obligations in consumer protection and monitoring of electricity retail markets. Research on power markets and decisions to take needed action to promote active competition and ensure that the market is working properly. 2. The review and confirmation of the national networks which are technical terms. 3. Participation at the European EMP partner organisation. 4. New sources for the application of administrative laws that serve as reminders and government fines. 5. Monitoring and reporting on electrical security, review and the adopted Landsnet system. I'd like to mention that the review and approval of Landsnet's system plan is something that we've created and have already done by changing electricity laws before. The bill suggests that the Power Institute is authorized to remind the operators of the management fines. It's part of promoting the Agency in its monitoring of nuclear power markets and increasing the independence of the electronics department. A reminder is important but simple measures that agencies can use and may potentially be as effective as instruments that involve fines. They are the legal requirements proposed in the bill in general, in line with the permission of other local health care providers. According to the 37th paragraph. A third power directive is part of the new monitoring provider's instruments in the possibility of parking tickets of up to 10% of the quality of an enterprise. This law is included in the bill, and it should be noted that competitive laws from 2005 include comparable measures in terms of choice. The directive I have mentioned earlier is part of the EU's so-called third energy package and has undergone early assessments of its compliance with constitution and international commitment. Based on the review of the 20 September 2016 State Department, the Commission's Commission and Observation Committee of November 27, 2014 considered the uptake of EU electricity types in the EEA Convention, the third energy package. At the same time, there is an in-depth discussion in the Council of Foreign Ministers, which all of whom are in this room know very well, of the confirmation of the decision of the joint EEA Committee No. 93/2017, May 5, 2017, of change in IV. Annex to the EEA Convention now available for the Council. If this bill remains unchanged as the law assumes that the cost of government funds due to increased legal activities of the energy management agency is increasing by 49 million. K. It is expected that by 2019 there will be a plan to prepare for the up-to-date activities of the energy monitoring agency to develop from January 1, 2020, in conjunction with an increase in electricity monitoring fee. At the same time, the budget will be expected to increase by 47 million. K. ... since2020 because of the increase in energy monitoring costs submitted by the bill. Is the increase previously expected to meet the increase in energy monitoring projects resulting from the third power directive. V.E.G. President. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. The pro board and the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u228	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the speech. I admit this introduction to the Power Agency to become a national rule gives rise to some fear. This national rule, or this role of the Power Agency, will be subject to a national institution and no one is needed except Brussels. Ten percent guilty could mean, e.g. in the case of field activation up to 5◯6 billion. I'm asking the secretary if she doesn't like the effect of this and if there's no reason to pause and think about it. I know this is the cognition of the case we've been discussing for two days, and me and the middle class have expressed our doubts about standing in a constitution. I must admit that this attachment is not quite to add to my optimism. Therefore, I must ask the minister: " Does she not feel any threat to this independence or that overwhelming authority? To answer the challenge, I also need to ask, " What will happen to my children? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u229	Mr. President. It is always the right question to consider what happens to your children. Especially do I mention that in my general work, it is my habit to think about it, whether it is in this case or not, and therefore have confidence that we are on the right track for the development of this matter and would not be speaking for it. It's just not true that this is a national rule. It's a home-made word that I didn't invent and that I can't find in the rule itself. We are simply promoting the independence of the Power Institute. Here's ACER's sources are in some context of possible guilt laws or fines that can study several billion e.g. on Landactivation. The ACER sources do not interfere with such decisions at all, so they are completely equipped. Finally, the question is, Do I feel that there is a threat to this matter? I don't think so at all and would generally think that increasing consumer protection, maintenance of companies, government or private property, and increasing consumer freedom to choose a business to trade with is good. So I don't think that any threat is caused by this case, because it's done very well. It has been clearly stated what this third energy package contains and what exactly it does not contain.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u230	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer. In fact, it is in the English language, said in the 37th chapter. Directive 72/2009, National Regulatory, Energy Regator, legislation. I don't know how to translate it any better than the word I put here. But for my second question, I'm going to take it to answer it for the highest. Minister. What will happen to the children? I can tell the Chief Minister. what happens to the children. After these cases have been presented and approved here, children will be paid a higher price for their future electricity. So the children will be the first generation in Iceland, growing up in a country that has no clear jurisdiction over its resources. That's what happens to the children.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u231	Mr. President. In case of a moment. A senator is referring to children who will have to pay a higher electrical price in the future when he is likely to refer to the fact that it will happen if a cable is placed here, which we have the absolute guardianship to decide for ourselves. I'm not going to take an oath or to make a binding decision for future generations to see if they think it's a good idea, because I'm not going to know people who are children today and will have all the other opinions I have today. In case of a moment. A senator assumes that electrical prices will rise when he introduces the third energy package, so it's wrong. What's happened since we picked up the first and second energy package is that the one in competition, the hall itself, has fallen. However, the costs and costs of transport have been increased. It is not out of the energy package. It is simply because of the need for investment. So you have to complete all that they say, because this energy package will alone not raise the electricity prices in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u232	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for an excellent presentation on the bill, which is about a lot of interesting things. What I'd like to do is, in particular, the work of the Power Agency in the field of electrical monitoring, which leads to the third energy directive, specifically the one that says in Unit 1, by permission of the President: A new obligation in the field of consumer protection and monitoring of the commercial and global retail markets of electricity. Research on power markets and decisions to take needed action to promote active competition and ensure that the market is working properly. At the same time, the assessment of the impact of the bill involves technical changes in emissions that do not directly affect individuals and therefore are not considered to affect the view of sex change, and the bill is not expected to have a significant impact on the job or company. I would like to ask a minister if this is absolutely correct, if this does not have a positive effect on this person through improved supervision. The director of ACER came into this at the World Health Organization annual meeting last week and spoke of how they had achieved a billion years of improved monitoring and improved system development, as well as improved consumer protection and such factors as found in the bill and the growth of the Power Institute. Will we not see the positive effect of these changes?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u233	Mr. President. In general, I'd say it's likely that this would have a positive effect on a company in the country, consumers, Icelandic public and business as well. Today's regulations are very open to market competition. However, we have taken quite a bit of time to accept it, and it can be said that this is not a very powerful competition for this market. I'd like to see more competition. We see that there are a small number of companies that have started and can, in many cases, offer lower electrical prices for their customers, and that must be positive. As we provide a bill that further promotes this environment and increases consumer rights, consumers at least opportunities to accept and make good use of the right one. Perhaps all these discussions will improve the quality of the bill and will become available to the public at the present opportunities of order and are the result of the introduction of a first and second energy package. It has been years since, but, as I say, it has taken us a very long time to open up for competition, despite the fact that it has been authorized for years. I really hope that consumers will see an opportunity in this, as well as others who will arise and start a business, offering consumers a powerful service and hopefully a lower electrical price.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u234	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for this fine answer. It confirms what I suspected and what I read from this bill. I just wanted to come in to that for the best. The minister mentioned the ownership of Landsnet, and I am very glad that a team or committee has been appointed to consider it. I believe it is very important that our nation is owned by the infrastructure and the electrician, as well as by the energy companies. Now more than once, and more than twice in our discussion today, the third energy package is going to make them privateized, cut apart, and I don't know what or what. Very much. Ministers are responsible for the privatization and the Landsnet and the whole thing, or what is the situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u235	Mr. President. The work we have started is not new. We're taking the next step. It was a group who worked on it in 2015 and returned a report. Similarly, a General Review has suggested that today's holding is unfortunate. So today, most of the country's activation and other public employment companies are also involved. I agree with what. Senator. It's more convenient to me that the Landsnet is simply owned by the state than owned by energy companies. It also increases credibility toward that company. This situation is similar in Norway, and to mention it, it greatly helped with the discussion of the third energy package that Stetett in that country belongs to the State. I think we're doing the right thing by going to that job.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u236	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this passage. It is being added to the observation program and is the leading member of the Independence Party, which has had a special interest in increasing the state's intensity as far as possible and being a direct misapprehension relative to what they have said before elections, away with the ball. There's no change. We're raising the surveillance fee by 1 45%. Then you ask yourself, " Does it not really come about by going into the prices, and there will be an increase in consumers? ' I'd like to ask the highest. Therefore, a minister is now going to increase the number of employees and funding is up to 50 million: Is the surveillance so bad today? Do these 50 million people really need to be replaced? Then it would be interesting to know whether any commercial energy companies are behind a long record of crime. What is the nature of this crime or offense that should be fined up to 10%? It would be good to receive an answer from the highest level. Minister. Then it adds: ▪ It is not expected that the bill will have a significant impact on jobs or businesses. I think there's got to be an explanation. This must have some effect on these companies. I think it's perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u237	Mr. President. This is not to say that a person can as an independent minister only cut down with great support from the general council or advised so that we can take the work that is in the hands of the State and put it another. In this case, however, we are opening up a competitive market that we have made a long time ago and improving when it is time to sell. If it results in better consumer protection, increased competition, lower prices, further opportunities for the business and opportunities of individuals to start companies and act on them, then to some extent the activities of the two sides are reduced, despite the fact that this calls for an increased energy agency's work programme. The surveillance needs to be okay. It's also part of a moral society with a powerful job life. If we want a powerful competition, it calls for surveillance. Even though I'm the growling liberal, which I may not classify, I think they even admit that supervision is part of a healthy commercial life in general. In fact, the companies who are going to have to pay this price may not be against raising the price. I also state that it hasn't been raised in eight years. Only that would account for the most increase. This increase is not necessarily a matter of price.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u238	V.E.G. President. It is virtually a law for such elevations to go into the prices. I don't think there's anything to argue about. But it's the highest. The minister did not answer, and I would have wanted to know more about the situation. Is there anything lacking in the surveillance today? There's no record of that. Is it not amiss to those who are in charge of this institution if the surveillance has been so relaxed that the European Union needs to point out that we have not been in the context of this? There is a natural concern about consumer protection. I think it's necessary to get to the top. Minister to inform us. Is there any complaint about this surveillance or something like that? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u239	Mr. President. Today's surveillance thinks there are four employees I wouldn't describe as a super-duper. Following the Nong's energy assessment of the energy monitoring of the Power Institute, it was found that various things could go better. It was not the European Union that had to tell us about it. It was in this case our friends in Norway. When we suggest to improve surveillance of the official institution that Power Institute is, it's because we feel the need to improve that surveillance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u240	Mr. President. This bill is part of the energy package we've been talking about here all day, and it's designed to turn the Power Institute into a state of sorts. You ask yourself, " What will be the result of these developments? ' In other words, the role and independence of the Power Agency, as stated in the report, are to be explained more closely and more measures to enforce the law. What I wondered about in these material is the increase, a 45% increase in this price. I said it in answer to the highest. Minister that I am deeply concerned that this will go into the community and show up at a higher energy prices for consumers, i.e. higher electrical prices for homes and businesses. After all, all these expenditures have a tendency to look into the prices. It has been a special policy of this government to reduce monitoring costs and particularly to banks. We see that the bank tax is about to go down. The budget paid by financial companies is now reduced to the FEC and is about to reduce the cost to the deposit fund. These reductions all arise because these companies, these institutions, have complained that the price was so high and that they were extremely limited in their means of offering their clients a better option because the check account was so high. Because the bank tax is so high, the banks cannot reduce the growth. However, there is evidence following the development of these reductions on the part of the government to finance companies that interest has gone up and gone up. The consumer organizations have promoted contact with those who are disloyally borrowing and have asked them to respond to the loans of those who have paid dues in terms of changing interest - that they may expect to be raised. It is said to them all because the check fee is too high. I say that I believe that this dramatic increase in the price will go into the prices, thereby raising electrical prices to consumers. Then there is the possibility that there may be a conflict of interest, i.e. In addition, the bill suggests that the Power Agency will set up and its employees a work programme that will require good management and effectiveness and that there will be rules that will prevent potential conflicting activities. Is it now so in Energy Institute that today there are no good administrative practices and efficiency? Is that to happen now by making this a kind of Kingdom government? This raises some questions about the activities of this institution today. I have to say that this text sounds like if I were an employee or director of this agency, I'd be worried that it would be here in print, that it would appear that this institution did not maintain good administrative practices. They talk about possible conflicting interests. What conflict of interest is that? Mr. President, I think there must be a clearer explanation. It then points out that with the bill it is suggested that Power Institute be given the authority to remind the operator of the management fines. That's exactly what I talked about earlier, i.e. the possibility of contributing fines up to 10% of the successful enterprise. There's an enormous amount of money that can make a difference for these companies. What, for example. with microdotes? How this affects minor inducers and e.g. Electricist? I can see that Encoding this bill was consulted by the Power Institute, but I don't see any discussion with stakeholders. I hope that's what they'll do at the Committee. It's, for example. A good society called the Favour of electric farmers, which are microengineering and economically highly efficient. Of course, we should give them our full support. The question, though, is: Can this law simply prevent people from being interested in going to minors? That's what we need to answer. It is a very important question, and it must not happen that governments would place some stones in the way of the pioneers, whom the power farmers certainly are. I came in on it in the opposite direction that it appears to a man, so today's patrol is just a bad one. That raises questions. It shows that four employees are engaged in the electrical monitoring. This energy package, the third energy package, is now described as having no effect on the country. Why, then, does this need to be increased? I don't quite understand it, and it over head to make this institution so important. Yes, some requirements are being carried out by the European Union, as may often occur when we implement such commands. But you are undeniably asking yourself, " Is there any change in this market recently as a righteousness to make a significant contribution to this surveillance? ' Then, according to one reference work, it is not expected that the bill will have a significant impact on the job or on the company. Mr. President, there has to be a statement that will explain the details. What does it mean not to have a meaningful influence? Some effect will occur, and it is absolutely necessary to know. Then we will discuss the budget that goes on. There are nearly 50 million people mentioned, and something will come back in the form of the surveillance fee. In this case, however, it is worth considering that there should always be improvements in the Kingdom Hall in this way. So here's another budget that needs to be implemented for financial management, etc. ... andI guess I'll raise it. And then there'll be prices above it, the usual prices during the years, etc., so it's a ball that's starting to roll. Then you ask yourself, " Why is this surveillance not a concern? ' I asked a minister earlier if there was some particular criminal record of these companies, i.e. What is it so important to add at this point? We have an active competition for this market. consumers can buy electrical energy from more than one manufacturer, more than one company. I can just go to my computer and decide to start electricalizing with e.g. It's an energy company from Reykjavík. Today I'm in business with Southnes Heat, or HD Power, as they say. All I can do is change it tomorrow so that this market is free and competitive. I have not been aware that there has been, or if there is, some price fixing in that subject. Well, then maybe we're at the Contestance Control. But in any case, I feel that what justifies this increased surveillance other than this induction, because as I said before on this energy package, there is no impact on the country and it's been up here all day that we don't have to worry about this because he's going to have no effect on the country, and then all of a sudden he's going to need to increase his surveillance, etc. Why is this needed? Everything must be explained. I think we need to get more information about the policy of government in this regard. Is it only to please this energy package and what the European Union puts before us, or are there other reasons behind it? I think it's very important to get it out. Once again, I want to reiterate my concern with minor activations, whether this can reduce innovation and affect these minor workings, since they are important to us. They are important to us in certain territories, such as correspondent in the South. It is important when we look at energy security in the area so that natural disasters could reduce electricity production. That's why it's important that we have reserve power, small power stations, i.e. small - men who will then be able to prepare a bit of a town. If such companies are being put on the streets with this, it is a natural serious issue because it is important to us that we can be confident that any rise here will not go into the prices. It is quite clear that this will result in higher levels for these enterprises and a significant rise in 45%, and then this fine, which also needs to be explained further. I don't think it's well tore up what the consequences can be for us. Only the Power Institute can be consulted and said that after consultation, the bill has been placed on the job and innovation website for public presentation and discussion. A few comments were received that were generally involved in the cooperation of energy issues with the EEA Convention and protected material outside the subject of the bill. How well has this been presented in another respect? Has it been thoroughly introduced to these stakeholders? It must be answered, and the committee must lie down on it. I think it is very important that the committee calls to him all those of interest in this matter. There, I specifically mention electrical farmers, as well as the answer, whether this affects research. It is important that we contribute to research, both in energy resources, etc., and those companies are engaged in research. This will affect the reduction of studies, etc.? There's a lot of questions in this, Mr. President, but it's still very important to get an answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u241	Mr. President. Today's debate has largely been about all four matters of Congress. We've been talking for hours, not just about the Congress resolution that was under discussion, but really all of this. I'm going to allow myself to continue to do so in part. It is vital that we reiterate the main points once more in the debate, here and now. This is certainly true, so the European Union's policy is that all European countries will be linked to electricity efficiency and electrical exchanges. EU countries each bought green electricity from Norway. It can be described as the main country outside the European Union in such trade. It has happened all this time in the rhythm decided by the Norwegians themselves. They are standing outside the EU, in the EEA, but are not party to the third energy package at this time. The other is so true that every European Union that generates electricity itself controls what goes to home bridges of electricity and how much land flows from electricity. This is in harmony with its own needs and abilities. There are no other examples. I challenge the members of the Central Party to find an example of an institution in the European Union, ACER, that has cut Europe's land to increase or even reduce electricity production and put electrical cables, even sea cables. You can't do that, because that's why I challenge the Central Party to try it. No matter how many times the media claims that the role of the third energy package is exactly to do so, that is wrong. In some country, indent electricity is controlled by the distances each day through existing conjugates and by technical instruments, the national network in that country as its internal needs. No country is forced to sell more electricity than is available, e.g. By shutting down domestic factories or by building up new power plants, not rather than buying too much energy, they only buy energy according to their needs. This really doesn't seem to be an example I've been able to dig up. I can't find a letter about that in the EU cops and yet I've searched many places. Determine any country to increase energy production beyond demand, e.g. building a new power plant, it's on the basis of the country, its size, its size, its design, etc. Why is this controlled? It is governed by the State's economic hope, by a government or by a national authority in the country whose right to build fortresses, or by the sale of foreign investors, rights to build such verses are given. We know that this is a fact in some European countries. There is no obligation to pay unfashionable yes to increase the production or double the transport capacity or anything. Then we can watch the market. He is certainly cruel, he seeks profit and energy, but there is always the sale of a free trade and a flow of electricity under his hat and under the supervision of the government that has been called the Order of America, and we have sometimes called ACER, because that is its role. If excess energy is damaged, eco-friendly and not eco-friendly, in some European country, the country is not obliged to sell it out of the country into its own country, but it is certainly encouraged to do so in order to achieve climate goals or to make money. And it's about markets, governments plan to achieve climate targets, etc. Perhaps the other. become that ACER somehow thought that extra electricity over the border was necessary, e.g. Because of a lack of electricity in a neighboring country, which has been charged with his status, his neighbor's complaint, and his connection. It could also happen in a case where the issue of an existing energy sale arises, e.g. due to prices or safety concerns or such. That's what the Agency is for. It does not order the country to add and so many megawatts and to sell them out of the country. That's wrong. Danir and Sweden have not been forced or obliged to sell energy or commanded improvements in their own energy production. Can you give me an example of that? No, you can't. Will the Norwegians, be party to the third energy package with their warnings and because we're creating the energy package, not going to follow our own skills? Will they follow orders for more wind parks, new hydrotopes, new sea cables per EU or ACER? I believe that would be a violation of the EEA deal. This would be out of the scope of ACER, for the Agency is described in the 2009 Commission and no part of it is described as the project of this institution, which reaches half as much as the Central Party says on the scope of the Agency's territory in the European Union itself, let alone ours. The claims that Iceland loses control over its energy resources if it is forced to receive cables are not made in any real estate, that's why I've spent that time, or a legal warrant for this in the last five to ten years. The claims are based on the frequent interpretation of text separated from context, even based on misunderstandings - I can't always tell it - or the raw buggy. It's certainly true that we can't in 2019, if this case is approved, that no Icelandic government and no any General will agree with a cable throughout the century. The claim that this will be because the president of the Contics said so or because plans were for it five years ago, it doesn't work. In fact, the phenomenon of IceLink has been asked to be fully replaced, if we put it that way, by maps and the plans for connection within Europe, because we have every right to do so, and that is the will of this government. But we can minimize the risk, in the opinion of the jurists, and bring in this third energy package with the warnings that have been described many times today and with all the factors not about commands and duties but of marketing transactions. If a cable in Iceland has to be stocked with energy, and both will be in full custody of the United States, whether to sell 500 megawatts or 1,000 megawatts and what the activations will produce that energy. ACER will, of course, be allowed to interfere with the fact that energy transport between Europe and Europe has the right angle here and is welcome if it is not found. We will have to face this if the democratic elected Council decides in 2040, 2060, or 2080. To make it suspicious, to make democracy itself suspicious is not a good political bitch. In the end, I'm going to say that the Central Party says they're protecting the nation's energy interests. So I've tried to explain why. But I ask what the Central Party is protecting by extracting facts about the basic issues involved, saying that the matter is about Iceland's control over its own resources. It is true that we want to have full control. Hence, it is very easy to say such things constantly, no matter what we have said or what we have said. Ministers have said, and bear it over and over again that it is the struggle for lasting energy, but it is wrong. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u242	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ari Guðmundsson for the speech. Actually, I thought we were discussing this bill about strengthening the Power Institute. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator did not mention the Power Institute in his speech, but rather took advantage of the opportunity to make a presentation for the Central Party. [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator will just have to accept the fact that the Central Party has a different opinion than the left green in this regard. Of course, it is noteworthy that the left greens, which were against a energy package one and two, are going to accept this energy package. That's why we could talk about it, huh? Senator. However, I'm going to ask, "What?" Don't worry about it -- now I think I'm aware that it is supplied to small activations and electric reforms - that this bill comes by cutting down the potential of electric farmers even to start new microintendents. I think it would be interesting to have it past the course. Senator. Then I'd be interested in getting an opinion. The senator's opinion is that the monitoring of the procedure today is not sufficient. This is to increase the number of employees at the Power Institute and make it a more powerful institution, a state of state. I'm asking if he knows the surveillance as it was and is being performed today and if it's in short supply. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u243	Mr. President. Listening to what's strange. A senator complains that I am discussing something other than what is now under, because he did just that all day long. All this energy issues were discussed today, all four of the above. I said I was repeating the main points to make them clear to me. There are no victims in this discussion. There was a question about the electrician. Now, I happen to sink into an electrical product in Romania, which is about 30 percent of the time. 6,000 MW. There is an enormous number of small workers, and their numbers have increased. It's under the hat of the ACER. And, of course, ACER is not part of the country's electricity production. It's a surveillance facility. Now, it's really through the ESA that all the charges are in our area, but anyway, ACER is an electronic surveillance agency. There is nothing that prevents small producers from selling electrical energy into the system and that has never been. Why, on the other hand, should this institution, which must have the advantage of free commerce with electricity for power, be involved in the construction or number of microindustries in Iceland? It's just a long way from here. For electronic monitoring, it's exactly the same thing. The surveillance here is not about any of the things we were discussing earlier, i.e. Small or otherwise, they think there's room for sales and competition in the country. If the Norwegian have found out by special analysis that the surveillance has been lacking, I believe it is all right for the Icelandic government to apply it. If there's to be an independent agency that isn't linked to what's the role of the Power Institute, which we know where and it's far beyond surveillance, that's fine. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u244	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I can see why he wants to discuss this matter far and wide, and then I'm going to take this opportunity and only bring in what he said about the cable. He is not worried that there will be a sea cable in the near future. We will see how these languages develop. Here, the government is giving a legal advance, stating that no cable will be placed here except by government permission. Then I'd like to ask who. A member of the council to see if he is not concerned that this judge will be condemned illegally, just as he did in the so - called meat or freeze - related matter, if we can put it that way, and I've traced it only today. There the government thought that they had made sure that this would be a raw meat that could have very serious consequences for our clean agriculture. It turns out that there is a law on food law and animal diseases that are condemned illegal. In this regard, this is a similar case. Has a what? A senator does not worry whether he or she is being assigned to stand? It's very open in this case that we'll just be charged and the case will go a long way, and the next thing you know, it may be that this backup guy will be judged illegal, and then we'll be completely vulnerable. Am I right, aren't I? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u245	Mr. President. It's this, Mr. President, a very valid word perhaps, or if or might. We're setting a law that tells us that a cable will not be connected to Iceland or over a head made without the approval of the General. Now, I'd like to mean that if this had ever happened in the future and separated from any third energy package, the General would still be involved in the legal process. Some people may be interested in this charge, i.e. The European Union or some other member, testing this legal advance. Then we'll just take that fight. We can't make sure that while we're in international cooperation, whether it's about meatfrillation or anything else, the legal warnings we put are 100 percent guarantees. And let us not forget that Stefán Stefánsson himself, who is the most quoted man of the day, has said to us: "There is no way in this international cooperation, which is perfectly flawless. Why? Because law and legal work are always doubtful. There's no lawyer like that in most things, let's say, he claims his way is the right one. It's bad lawyers who do it. Therefore, I have great respect for StefánMár the son of Stefánsson, that this or the other way is not entirely without blemish. I'm not worried that this situation that we call warning, which is just a natural trial, will cause us trouble. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u246	V.E.G. President. This is where we'll discuss a bill to correct the conversion of power laws and the laws on Power Institute, the EEA regulations, the appendage laws, to the highest degree. The head of travel, industrial and innovation recommended tonight. In order not to extend my case, I'm going to discuss nothing but this bill. We've been talking about that big Congress arrangement that was being discussed today and yesterday. Hv. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson said that in real life, we have discussed all four matters that are planned. But I'm gonna be brief. For discussion, the law bill is about changing the power laws and the Power Institute laws. The bill this is inevitable follow-up fish induction of the third energy package. This bill goes on and on. to support the legal rights of the Power Institute. This is about the intention of changing the role of the Agency in making the Agency a branch office of the National Institute, ACER. The role of ACER has been clearly outlined today. As a body of Congress hopefully realizes, the Agency, if a third energy package is introduced, will have a major impact on the national energy market. Of course, not everything presented in the bill is unnecessary, certainly not. Of course, we should promote and support consumer protection. The question is, Do we need to do so by direct order? I'm going to be able to quote the bill that says, by permission of the President: He's in charge. 1.mg. can study up to 10 percent of an enterprise's well-being. I would like to say that the energy market in this country is merely a fragment of the large market that is part of the European Economic Area, and thus such sources are hardly relevant to our desperate market. I'd also like to point out that 8th paragraph. The bill says we're 1st. Law on Power Institute, No. 87/2003, with subsequent changes, will add a new sentence, as follows, to president's permission: The Agency is independent in its decisions when the Agency conducts electronic energy control under electricity laws. This appears to be moving the force of the Power Agency from the authority of the Minister. The bill also shows that the electrical monitoring charge could change and that it will probably increase. I'm asking if we want to continue that course.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u247	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson was here in his speech earlier, and he used his speech lesson mostly to complain that the middle-class members did not understand the possible transfer of their peers into the affairs of the third energy package, which, of course, is the right one. I've got to feel bad. A senator by showing him that we live at least Even in a democracies society where even those who are in a more conflicting mind than the wind. A senator has freedom of speech in this country, especially here at the High General Assembly of our Icelanders. We're here to discuss the changes to the laws associated with the so-called third energy package and I'm going to make a few comments to the bill. Some have actually appeared before, such as. The fact that representatives of the third energy package have repeatedly said that this package has no effect on the country. This does not seem to be the case with the growth of the Power Institute, because in the bill this institution is expected to grow considerably. The electricity sector has been relatively quiet here in Iceland. The majority of the electricity and energy production have been in the hands of the government and owned by the state and our Icelanders, so it will be quiet over these sectors, where a significant expansion of the energy agency is expected. It is suggested that resources to the Agency be increased by less than 50 million. In addition to the Agency's work, the increase in monitoring costs and monitoring costs itself, and also in the bill, it is expected that to the Agency will meet the costs resulting from the pressures of the management ticket. I just want to point out this up-and-supervising rate that's really high. She's 45%. In answer to this question, the highest answer was: Ministers, for example, that would not have gone up for many years, but this is about 50 percent higher that is far beyond all inflation in recent years. I agree with what. Þórarinsson When I conclude that this rise will flow directly into the prices of electricity, I believe Thornson's daughter. The bill suggests that the Power Institute can lay down government fines that can take up to 10% of a successful company. I think it's all right. I've said this sentence before for another reason about government finesse, but I think it's a good place to go. 10% is pretty much and often doesn't need such a high percentage of a staffed enterprise to simply drop it down if e.g. A new company would be discussing. Is this a 10% command from the third energy package that can be found elsewhere in the energy package? Are these instructions in the regulations? I don't remember, or maybe I haven't. It would be nice to get it out then. These fines will go into the state's budget after the latest expenses we collect. Of course, I make a comment to it as I have done so many times before: Who will determine what this cost will be? Of course, most people work at having this expense and calculate this cost in the books as high as possible to get a larger piece of this cake. So I ask, who calculates this cost? What's his surveillance? Who's going to be over there? Energy agencies are expected to be largely restricted to ministers. A mission of energy is taken away from a minister. This is one of the questions raised: Who will monitor how they calculate the cost share of these fines? It's coming to them. I have questions about the authority of the Bureau, what nature it is. And who is it then that's running Power Institute? Who really has authority over them? Does this appear in the report? I didn't see it, but if it's there, it's fine. But who has authority over Power Institute if it's not a minister? And those who do not agree with the decision of the Power Institute, who can they look for? Some of these decisions are presented in the bill. What, though, of the other portion that does not fit there? What can they do to make decisions? Or have those who must abide by these decisions no chance of being revised by the Power Institute's decisions? And where, if so? Where would they be revised? So at the end: What is the visit of ESAs or of ACER events to the Power Institute? Why is it not tore up in the report? It is here to introduce a third EU energy package, and it contains a number of instructions on the relationship between the institutions that I mentioned to institutions comparable to the energy institutions in each country. Do they know how to picture this, how to feel about this connection? If this connection is not available, it would be necessary to report it. I suggest that the committee involved in this case take this into consideration and give an opinion whether there is no connection between the third energy package in the EU and there is the opinion of these experts when the bill returns to 2rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u248	Mr. President. We've done a lot of serious research, but I think it's right to go back and forth with the facts when we discuss a bill here to legalize the conversion of energy laws and the law on Energy Institute, EEA regulations, guidelines. The bill of this hangs with a synonym that was discussed earlier this evening. We're changing power laws to pop into holes in a highly defective directive for an Annex to the EEA Convention. This is a new institution or if you want to look at it, call an old institution a new name and change the role of the Agency considerably. The most serious point is that the new organisation will not be allowed to operate in this Member State. This institution will have the highest power in energy. The Agency, in effect, will be a minister in this field, but will be independent of the government and all stakeholders in the country. The Agency will submit to the invitation of the ESA, but it aims that all key decisions and instructions for them will be made at ACER, the EU energy agency. Iceland won't have a vote in ACER, but an audience and freedom of speech. For people who do not want to be in the EU, this kind of power supply to the EU is unacceptable to the electricity of the country. President. I'd like to quote some of the report, by permission of the president: A new activity in the field of electrical monitoring, resulting from the third energy directive, is as follows: 1st New obligations in consumer protection and monitoring of electricity retail markets. Research on power markets and decisions to take needed action to promote active competition and ensure that the market is working properly. 2. The network history (technical terms) as well as the monitoring of the wide network services of the Landsnet network. 3. Participants in the ACER 4. New sources for application of government policy laws. 5. Monitoring and reporting on electronic security, as well as section 4. The directive: I draw special attention to sections 3 and 4, which are fundamental. This is where law is being introduced into the ACER and additional sources of government guilty. ACER will become an institution designed for a large part, but there is a legal rights of the ACER Substitution Agency in Iceland. It's the nature of the ACER and how it will work that I make the most comments about. ACER will be in accordance with Regulation No. 713/2009 has the following assignment: It has a judicial hearing in the Member States. It's supposed to be improved by legislation at the EEA scene. It is to promote an efficient competition for the internal market for electricity. It is to promote the implementation of guidelines for a European energy network. It's supposed to help the energy market member assist with the application of power sources in the EU and coordinated measures. There are new sources to encourage and apply administrative funds to companies of energy markets, whether by processing companies, transport companies or diffusers, due to violations of the requirements of electricity laws. Such decisions would be considered, not on the Ministry, but on the electronic committee. Sad to say, in short, it is difficult to explain how an ACER organisation will work at the foundation, but it is said that ACER and ESA should work closely in preparation for decisions, declarations, and encouragements. This is unfaithful in view of the fact that 27 countries are behind ACER and that ESAs have never played a role but to monitor the implementation of EU regulations in the EFTA countries. In practice, the European Union's ACER energy agency will reach a national position in Iceland. This means that the energy package's regularity will dominate the Icelandic law, stand legally higher. It is possible that the government could not prevent the sea cable from being set up because of the four commercial freedoms we have attended. The European Union can thus oblige the European government to allow sea cables to be restored. So it will be considered whether a law in Iceland will do it if it does. There is a realistic possibility that the ACER will direct recommendations to us, however, it is clear that despite the full involvement of the ESA's activities, the ESA will be an ESA without vote. Thus, there may be some suggestions that we need to allow the sea cable to be repaired. In my view, this doubt has not yet been destroyed, despite the extensive and extensive discussion that has taken place here. Mr. President. There is little evil in all things, that there is no good. This discussion is still drawing out facts. There's nothing being cast into stone here. It is the work of men, and it is easy to change in a short period of time. It has to be a change of government, and sometimes this has happened on short notice, and there is a different country. Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson correctly asserted in his speech earlier that we could never defend ourselves 100% with legal warnings on such matters. That's me, Mr. President. A senator for the first time today. Despite the wind. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson is a firm advocate of the case according to what he has said today, he says, as clearly as possible, and crystally puts it to the core, that we can never, ever, ever, with 100% legal decisions in such matters, fully defend us. I don't really have anything to add to a talk at any point. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u249	V.E.G. President. In this regard, there are some things to consider, and there are some warning bells that call out with those who are concerned about the overage of power to overnational institutions. The report shows that the changes proposed are attributable to the induction of the third electricity directive for common rules on the internal market for electricity. It is recommended that we do so and that we do not see more clearly on page 20. 4, with permission to the highest. A president who says: The ensuing bill suggests that the Power Institute is authorized to remind the operators of the management fines. This is part of promoting the Agency in its monitoring of electrical markets and improving the independence of electrical monitoring in accordance with the third electricity directive. In other words, it is making up this so - called national rule found in page 37. &lt; 0.001a &lt; 0.001a &gt; &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.001 of the European Union Directive No. 72 from 2009. This article is a rather disturbing reading because the realm of authority that is emphasized in the Article of this Regulation is in itself a prescription for what should come, that Power Institute will become a state of state, and that it will be, at least, in this regard, not under the government of the Icelandic state, but in possession of Brussels. The rise in the electrical monitoring fee presented here is based on the results of the energy manager's report on the operation of electrical monitoring over the past few years. According to one estimate, the loss of business and the pay of time by electrical energy watch increase substantially, and now this increase to the price level, to the electrical markets. And what is that? The third pack of energy comes with us and we're taking in. What are the new obligations? They are also found on page 19. 4, with permission to the highest. A president who says: A new obligation in the field of consumer protection and monitoring of the commercial and global retail markets of electricity. Research on power markets and decisions to take needed action to promote active competition and ensure that the market is working properly. It's a very open law, and you must ask yourself, because you can now switch power dealers, i.e. We consumers can switch the companies we shop for, such as insurance companies or banks, without any restraint. It is also said that the cost is due to network management and monitoring for the almsation services of the Landsnet. The third factor is participation in the ACER. In other words, we are paid to participate in the ACER, an institution that we have nothing to say about. Number four, with president's permission: ▪ New sources for the application of governance laws. We've talked about before, fines based on up to 10% of the quality of individual enterprises can be set. Thus, in the case of landactivation, 5 billion could be found out that it would function. And fifthly, by permission of the President: The postmark and report on electrical security,br. Section 4. The order. ◯ This is changing a part of the Power Agency into a global power that has no national authority to see that we behave as Brussels pleases. So far, we've been living with the third to the fourth lowest electrical price in Europe. Electrical prices, e.g. of Denmark is approximately twice the size of a kilowatt hour. However, they claim that the requirements being adopted follow no rise. Then I'm still going to quote Halli and Laddi, as I sometimes do under these circumstances and say, "I'd love to see it, to think about it. But all of this will be revealed. I admit well that I'm very disintegrating in this matter, like in another language that has been discussed and is an article of the same hurt. I also admit that I can't look at Iceland's bright outlook on its electrical exchange on the multinational authority I spoke about earlier. And as for the first duty I read in terms of, I would like, by permission of the President, only repeat: ▪ An examination of electrical power markets and decisions to take the necessary steps to contribute to active competition and to ensure that the market is functioning normally. We live here, Mr. President, having three companies in the public market that produce electricity in Iceland, i.e. Landactivation with about 70% of the market, 20% of nature's energy, EUR Reykjavík, and 10% of HD Energy, which has been blessed with more than part of the Icelandic property again. It didn't look good for a while, but at last the Icelandic Pension Funds took on a steady diet, dressed in a book, and appeared to be getting more part of that company after ten years, i.e. The company has been living in a foreign country for ten years. If not, it would have been a real danger, and it is a natural danger even when those rules are valid, with some small or smaller electrical products suing the size of land activation. I wonder, I don't even think about it, whether it can lead to trouble there. This whole thing, when you open a window that way, makes you really worried because we can't monitor or supervise what is being opened on it. It has been said that we're abdicating ourselves part of or part of the management and/or control of the energy sources. In my opinion, people will simply point out where we are going. Those who have come up here and battled to be an angry old man at the council today have in themselves spent more time discussing the Central Party, which is so fine, it is fine to keep your attention, instead of taking a objective discussion and discussing what is being discussed. I repeat my concern and will for the second. I'm going to be very productive and thoroughly and I'd love a translation of the 37th st. of the European Union Directive No. 72 from 2009, because it contains the reading of what it is as a national rule or electronic rule to keep roles and surveillance on and what power it has. I'm going to hope that when this case goes to what? The employment committee will first call to account a number of specialists on the issues involved in this matter of Congress, that the committee will be translated, if not already, the articles in the EU directives under which there is no misunderstanding. Today's debates have been saying that there are misunderstandings and misinformations, etc. Then let us make sure that we have the commission, such as the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. Detailed translation of the articles we are considering, and the committee is going to discuss. In connection with this matter, there will be a why. Work committees, too, are going to be left out of the business of ACER's role and position in discriminating explanations. It's not enough for a person to come and say, "It's not a problem, it's nothing to worry about. We must get a thorough explanation of what this confederate can do and can do within the country, so that we are absolutely sure that we want to hand over the authority that we are going to give to that historic institution. Of course, it is happy to increase consumer protection, but I ask myself: " Is giving power that could have a significant impact on such activities as the increase in consumer protection? Land-removal? Is that something we want? It's still a doubt, at least in my breast. It says in a good Icelandic saying, with the permission of a president: ▪ Not the product of a product. That is why I strongly deny that in this case and in the case we discussed yesterday and today, there was fear - inspiring propaganda. They have simply called for the best information. They have called for the destruction of any doubts that can be destroyed. I don't understand people who have it in them to deny that we're spending them doubt. I don't quite understand. I'm so old you can see, but I never thought I'd live listening to speeches, I've heard two or three, like them as a boy. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson has moved to this council, the naturalist, the scientist. I thought I would not live to hear such talks. He must be a guest of honor at the next national meeting of the Independence Party, giving talks on energy. I think it must be. That would be a logical continuation of what he has discussed in these matters today and yesterday. Even if you are somewhat older, however, life continues to surprise you. It is one of the blessed benefits of living this life. That's what I'm saying. The committee that treats this matter as accurately as possible because the interests of life are so big that we cannot afford it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u250	Mr. President. Thank you. Councilmen for discussion on this matter. There are a few things I wanted to mention. That there are some guidelines here for Power Institute is no sentence against the Agency. The management board is in good shape. Neither the emissary nor the State Accounting agent have made comments on the activities of the Power Institute, so this is not a cause for complaint against them. It is simply so that when an institution gains greater independence, its demands are increased and there is nothing unusual about them. Here, a claim was made to the matter. paritaprevir Gauti Hjaltason, this increase is far beyond the price. I'm sure that's a good idea. During my discussion, I could not do so. In 2011, the price was raised, so it's been eight years since, and if it's not just a little close, I'd say, if it's not. A lot of questions were asked, " Would these 47 million return to prices? ' That's when it's supposed to be in a dispersal charge of 1 penny every kilowatt. In comparison, we have 0.3 k. ... inan equation. It is then a total of $1 billion, so that there are 47 million, so I would think that would be absolutely negligible what this increase would have in general on credit. But I'm sure it's a special diagnosis for the committee, and I think it's just a good thing to do. So here we are wondering why the price needs to be raised. Then, on the other hand, it has not been done for eight years and, like a whale, for eight years. Councilmen have, as a matter of fact, covered here are additional projects for the Agency. Energy agencies were given increased work in 2015 on the Landsnet System Plan, review and confirmation of it, which is considerable work, but the registry was not raised and it did not grow then, there were no extra funds that went to the Agency then. However, there is new obligations to consumer protection and monitoring of small sales of total electricity markets, monitoring, electrical security reporting, network coverage, and other factors. That explains the rise. For the Power Institute and the effects of ACER and/or ESA on that institution, there is no effect while we are not connected.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u251	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill on deck. 1253, bill to correct the conversion of electrical law, No. 65/2003 (a government reference to the building of the electrical transport system). The bill is suggested that we make III and I. the section of the electricity layer will be added to the new provision for the linking of the EU's electrical energy systems to other countries through cables, according to the government's policy on the building of electricity transport systems. The reason given by the bill is that for a few years it has been thought of as a possibility of connecting the country's electrical system to the electrical systems of other countries. These include CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 referred to reports produced by government personnel in July 2016, where various analyses were made regarding the possibility of an electronic cable between Iceland and Britain. In view of the scope of such a project and such a decision, it is considered normal and necessary to implement it at any given time in accordance with government policies on the building of electricity transport systems and on the approval of the General Assembly. The bill is presented here to eliminate all aspects of the subject. The bill makes a specific connection to the council resolution of No. 26/148, the government's policy on the building of electricity transport systems, from June 11, 2018. Thus, in conjunction with the legal bill, proposals are presented for the change in government policy on the building of electrical transport systems. This adjustment suggests that unless agreed by the Generals' approval, the electronic energy systems of another country's electricity system will not be triggered. In addition, there is a consent to the implementation of the Landsnet System Management Plan before implementing such connections. Therefore, the basis should provide a comprehensive assessment of the environmental, social, and economic effects of connections and activities. The current Parliamentary resolution of government policy on the building of the electrical transport system provides clear emphasis that is binding to the design of a system plan, e.g. in the 4th issue of a series not to be attacked over the highlands, and in the 10th issue that using line lines for electrical lines, the protection terms of the peace-enforced areas should be observed. Have the emphasis that is stated in the synopsis a certain state of law, as stated at 1 mg. Count 9. Electrical law that the shipping company should build the transport system after taking into account government policy on the building of electricity transport systems. In general, a decision to determine whether any type of nuclear power system will ever be linked to the electricity systems of another country is always a matter of government custody. It has been proposed that the implementation of a third EU energy package does not require any national obligations to accept a possible translucency cable. It can refer to the legal opinions of any of the groups that have been proposed on these topics. The contents of the third energy package are generally referred to as the proposal of a foreign minister for a resolution that we have discussed in the past. There is no question that the Icelandic government decides which parts of the interior would allow a person to fix an electronic transponder and on what basis. For example, in the Norwegian government declaration regarding the induction of the third energy package, it is made clear that a decision to fix new sea cables is always on the custody of the Norwegian government. The same applies to Iceland. It is therefore unthinkable that a cable would be placed on the land against the will of Iceland, and it is under the authority of the Icelandic government to decide whether to park, own, and run an electronic cable to and from Iceland. In terms of the criteria for such a decision, it is also important that Iceland's rural society employ its planning authority and, on the basis of this decision, decide which building should be allowed and on what basis. In this regard, such factors as environmental, social, and other factors will inevitably be considered. In addition, if such a decision is made at some point in the future, it is evident that there will also be changes in the law on permit measures, as well as aspects of operating and ownership of such projects and its constructions. Thus, it would require a number of legal adjustments if we were thinking of laying a cable. Of course, all things must go through the council. A number of countries allow such projects to be carried out, and they would need to be very detailed in the case of the Generals, if that were to happen. V.E.G. President. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. The pro board and the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u252	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. It is now time for national and national warnings as well as for those following the Directive on the third energy package, i.e. that these legal provisions will be set to ensure that a pack of energy has no effect, but the energy package should still be introduced. I have serious doubts about this route because there is evidence that it violates the EEA Convention and is thus at the edge of Europe's rights. It's very simple. Either the council is to accept a pack of three energy as it comes from the joint EEA committee or to reject it altogether. It is not safe to accept only a portion of this package. We know this, and we have experience with it through the so - called meat or freeze issue, where the law on how we are not going to allow the import of raw meat cannot resist the agreement. The matter was precious, as we know it. We are subject to damage, and we have had to pay a lot of money on these subjects. Therefore, I am very afraid that this route will fail, and I have serious doubts about it. Here, there can be a basis for a lawsuit on the financial funds and on the European courts. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Is it not a significant possibility that this matter will go on the way of the raw meat, i.e. For this law shall be charged, and it shall be judged unordained? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u253	V.E.G. President. It is simply not part of the package, part of the third power directive, to have to lay a cable. A vessel cable is simply not part of the third power directive. Therefore, if we are not going to sea wire because it is simply not part of the third power directive, no one can legalize us, and there is no obligation for us to place a cable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u254	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister, please respond. V.E.G. One minister noted that there is no obligation to sea cables. But if it is passed on to the government from, for example, will it be prevented? The German big power company, E.ON, who might wish to land a cable here? So it's not against the EEA Convention if the government is going to say no on that subject? Is there anything we can do to prevent that? There's no such thing as an energy package three on Icelandic terms, it's just a package of energy three, and we have to accept that we can't get any extra access from it. That's it. That's it. Even at the highest. The secretary of state has discussed with the European Union's energy chief and has received some information or a common understanding that we do not have to worry about this matter, it is not an obligation to national rights and is of no value. This concern is in my opinion, Mr. President, justified. Sports are frightening to these substances. We've tried to set specific laws to make sure that we have some special advantages other than the one that can be agreed with the European Union on the EEA Convention. It hasn't worked out. Why can it be expected that it will work now? I don't quite understand, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u255	Mr. President. Today much has been discussed with us about the writing of Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson. If we make a decision to lay a cable, we will face this warning and what we must do. If so, we need to consider certain factors. It's not the same thing. It is not the same as if there is someone who would have to put a cable or not. We do not need an exception because of our obligation to provide a sea cable for which there is no obligation and it is not part of the third energy package. The third pack of energy, the first or second or fourth or any other, may not turn to our resources. We decide whether and how to use our resources. Once we've made some kind of decision to use resources and generate electricity, it's a product like any other product. It is not part of this third pack of energy to make us obligated to lay down a cable or say yes if someone is interested in laying a cable. It has been in the discussion for 25 years whether to land a cable. I'm sure there's some people who are interested in bringing in a sea cable, but it's up to us to do that. There is no such rule because it has not been scheduled. There's gotta be a difference between this. Our resources and use of them are not part of this. That's not part of the energy market. The energy markets turn to that once we have decided to use our resources and become electric. That's when the power's on the line, just like any other product. Then a certain rule begins. Resources are not part of that order. Simply put, there must be a distinction, and mixing this thing forever against a better level of consciousness is not a matter. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u256	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna try to be unmixed here. The information published by the European Union, a summary, is expected to take a cable to Iceland as the next string to be laid. My questions and concerns are somewhat related to what Landing has been doing for some time now in preparing for the bellows of a cable. First, it would be interesting, and it may be published in a later inquiry, to find out how much money Landing has spent in preparing a sea cable as the government so far as to have refused to be interested. It would be interesting for the local taxpayers to hear about it. I'd also like to ask the highest. A minister may now be sure that during the preparation of this project, he would have made sure that the plans and cups of land activation were placed on the shelf. I would very much like a minister to answer me if I had assured that this business of the nation has now been established, who in the past has ever played free and spent money preparing a cable that I thought the government, both former and present, would not have intended to be connected.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u257	Mr. President. In case of a moment. A senator is asking about a so-called IceLink on this PCI list, or by permission of President, Project of Common Interest, by the European Union, the project has been on that list since 2015 when the head of the Central Party, hm. paritaprevir The prime minister, Sigmundur, Davíð Gunnlaugsson. This application has now been retracted, so this job will simply not appear on the list when it is next published in November 2019. There has been considerable work on this potential project, including the government, not only in the case of land activation. That was exactly why. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, chairman of the Central Party, meeting with Britain's then prime minister, David Cameron, started a project. It has been said that his advance was that the price could not be raised to the public. But I ask them, How about all the authority? There were no warnings on the part of him. A senator about what's the big deal today? Was this just about public prices not going up? The third energy pack was completely covered in 2015 and 2016 and, in fact, many years before that. How much money land induction has spent in the view of this project, I don't have a perspective, but they may be asked. What I know is that this task as a possible opportunity to export energy has strengthened the contracting status of Landing, which is owned by all of us, when it comes to dealing with the industry. Well, we're selling a large part of the produced electricity in the country to four companies. It's been good business to negotiate with them to be able to say: There may be another way in the future to sell them energy. I just wanted to come by and see how much money they've spent on this opinion, they've also produced a stronger contract standing by the company owned by us, regardless of their clients. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u258	V.E.G. President. I thank the Minister for this net outback. [[Up front.]] I just didn't know that Davíð was drawing electrical cables in there. But it's been made up, and it was in the work files yesterday, which I'm sorry I'm not in the hands now, the narrative of Cameron and Davíð's meeting that explains exactly what warning was made. I'd appreciate the opportunity, I hope, to get that program and graduation in the hands of the minister so that she doesn't have to have any further outcasts on that matter. I find it interesting, however, that there is not quite enough to be done. Ministers have not been able to figure out how much has been spent in the never - to - be - and - not - being preparation. And I say, Tar is every man behind his brother, except he hath a brother. Is it not easy for Landactivation and for the government at any given time to point to the major users here who have bought electricity for a while that there is an application abroad to install data plants and other companies, supercomputers, etc.? I can't see why, as a minister says, we really need to keep them in the background to show these companies that electricity can be sold out of the country to keep them in line and to get them to pay higher prices. I think it would be better for the government to build up and try to increase the opportunities in technology and computer beings, etc., than to be waving electrical cables in front of others. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u259	Mr. President. I can say with what. A senator that, of course, we want to have a powerful job and environment for an enterprise and to promote the competitiveness of our companies. But we also know that when those companies arrived here - they even helped us. to build a very powerful transport system at the time, and these are enterprises that are incredibly important to us and create a number of jobs and high export costs - they sold electricity to them for a considerably lower amount of money than we do today. I think it must be the advantage of all of us that we sell the electrical energy at a price that gives itself a complete profit without joining in the competitive environment in which the companies work. I'm going to protest that it's a bit of a twist to answer that question. The question was, How much work had been done to study sea cables? And despite the most pressing question being made, it must be reasonable to answer also what part the government has been involved in. That's, I'll say, outwardstive to call it an outback that I answer the question which was in my head. The foreword to be made at the time of rest. A member of the Middle Party, former prime minister Sigmundur, Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, turned to the price. At that time, the content of this third electrical command was completely predefined. It appears to be at least So that there was no more concern about the situation than that was the main concern.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u260	Mr. President. I'm still in the same motivation as I've done so far. I still have doubts that what is proclaimed here will be held. Still comes up for a bill that hangs with the so-called third energy package. Legal bill of this, with President's permission, reads: 5: Following the fifth mg. Count 9. a The law comes a new paragraph, as follows: On the link between the national electricity system and the national electricity system through a cable, the government's policy on the construction of the electrical transport system is being carried out. This is where we're going to change the power laws and to maintain the illusion that, after implementing a new energy package, we'll have a very self-control to see if we're going to put a cable here. It should be clear what the purpose is with the energy package. It may seem noble to many, but the fact is, we are a town to produce a large amount of green energy. Thus, there will likely be great pressure in the future to connect with the country, which will ensure that the future's technology will solve its problems. What the future holds, no doubt, does not always predict. On the other hand, it is clear to all that greed in our energy resources is becoming more and more aggressive. We have the examples in front of us. Investment in the energy sector is highly profitable, and it does not take a large prophet to see that pressure from that direction continues to rise. To that end, I repeated thanks to my earlier talk. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson for confirming in his case that we cannot by such legislation 100% guarantee that this will hold us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-09-91.u261	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a synonym. 1252, on the change in the synoptic resolution of No. 26/148, the government's policy on the building of the electrical transport system. On June 11, 2018, the General Assembly adopted a resolution of No. 26/148, the government's policy on the building of the electrical transport system. In this synonym, there are general factors that should be guided by the construction of the electrical transport systems, including a system plan. Keep them in a certain position of law, as stated in Article 1. Count 9. Electrical law that the shipping company should build the transport system after taking into account government policy on the building of electricity transport systems. Similarly, the 5th mg dose is presented. Count 9. a Electrical law to further expand human activities due to the development of the transport system depends on the government's policy on the building of electricity transport systems. The current Parliamentary resolution of this subject provides clear emphasis that is binding to the implementation of a system plan, e.g. that no lines will be triggered above the high country or that the selection of line lines should make sure that the reservations of peace-encrypted areas are protected. With the adjustment proposed here, it is suggested that a new focus be added to the Council Residence A team, which has to do with the possible link between the electronic energy system and the electrical systems of other countries. Along with this matter of Congress, the bill I gave above suggests that by means of electronic law, its provision for the linking of national electricity systems to other countries through a circuit, according to government policies on the building of electricity systems is being added. This bill generates a link in electrical law to the synopsis proposals presented here. As discussed on the above - mentioned bill, the cause of the Council case has been attributed for several years to link the Icelandic electrical power system to the electrical systems of other countries. This has largely been the case with Britain. These include CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 referred to a report produced by government personnel in July 2016 that provided various analyses of electrical energy across marine cables between Iceland and Europe. To underscore this, it is considered appropriate to refer specifically to this in the existing synod, as previously stated, June 2018. There is no question that the Icelandic government decides which local people are allowing for such a cord and on what grounds. For example, in the Norwegian government declaration regarding the induction of the third energy package, it is made clear that a decision to fix new sea cables is always on the custody of the Norwegian government. The same applies to Iceland. It is impossible, therefore, that a cable would be laid to the country against the will of Icelanders, and it is in the power of the Icelandic government and the Generals to decide whether to place, own, and run an electronic cable to and from Iceland. First, it is clearly stated in the synonym that the link between the Icelandic electricity system with the electricity system in another country does not occur unless it is agreed by the Generals, secondly, that agreements should be agreed before implementing such links can be carried out on the Landsnet System and, thirdly, that such decision should be based on a comprehensive assessment of the environmental, social, and economic effects of such connections and their implementation. This emphasizes that the final words of such a decision are always at the hands of the Generals. Similarly, this is in accordance with the role and position of a system law as well as the interpretation that I have discussed. Therefore, at the discretion of the Generals, the proposal is essential for requesting government authority on the basis of the procedure in accordance with the laws of each case. It should be noted that to follow the above procedure, if necessary, there would be some changes in the law. It is not time for such a bill to be submitted until it is planned to determine a transponder link. A study of placing an electronic cable from Iceland to Europe has simply not reached that stage. The contents of the EU third energy package are generally referred to in the proposal of a foreign minister and the bill I have already recommended. V.E.G. President. Finally, I suggest that the proposal be referred to. Promissary committees and later districts.
