ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u1	We've got a letter from 3rd. Smoke. So, Ágúst Olafurus Ólafur of Ágústsson and the active chairman of the Central Party by 3rd. That's the north side. " Sigmur Sigmundur the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, " said David, "that they will be absent at the next time in public affairs. As reported on the General Assembly, members of the General Assembly, who served for Friday, Þorgrímur Kárason, 1. There have been letters received from 3rd. South, Birgir, son of Þórarinsson, 7th. Southk., Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, and president of the House of Independence for the 1st. South, Páll Magnússon, that they will be absent soon in public affairs. Today, therefore, at the General Assembly, who served as guardians for them 1 of the Central Party in the Southern District, Elvar Eyvindsson, 1st. A deputy of the South-Europe Party's List, A Ásgerður of K. Gylfadóttir, and 1st of the Independent Party of the South Cathedral, the Miss Konráðsdóttir Konsolódótir. Finally, a letter has been received from a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the House of forwards that the Conspiracy Ingi Pétursson, a deputy of the Telethon of the Northwestern Parliament, proclaimed a pasturage, and will be replaced by a member of the council as a substitute for the Egilsdóttir of Eliphe. Today, therefore, at the General Assembly of Helmmar Boggi Vaderson, the 1st Specialist of the Party's Future in the District. This group has all been invited to serve at the General Assembly before, and they are invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u2	At a meeting in the U.S. and Education Committee on September 19th. Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir was elected second vice president of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u3	To answer, Prime Minister, Economic and Economic Ministers, Health Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Transport and Regional Ministers and Foreign Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u4	Mr. President. At the top. Prime Ministers are concerned about the increase in possessions, is economic inadequacies, and is threatening social and economic stability. The richest 1% of the population already owns a fifth of the nation's clean property. We see a circuit in which the wealthiest who can afford better financial advisers can afford access to capital, cheaper capital, and can bring money back and forth between subsidies as wind goes forth, towards the fruits of their wealth far beyond the public. The sky is high from generation to generation. The numbers of wealth are increasing, and the gap between those with much and those with little increase steadily. That's how it's off the head. Many scholars warn against this, including economist Thomas Piketty of the highest degree. The prime minister has both taken delight. He has done a lot of research on genetic taxes and how to use them to cope. Now, the government has decided that the genetic tax will be step - apart so that it picks up 5% of the amount of money up to 75 million. K. but 10% of what's beyond that amount. Now the tax is 1 0 percent, no matter what the amount of money. This change occurs at a rate of 2 billion. The median amount of money in Iceland is about 3.5 billion. K. On the other hand, the low genetic factor now proclaimed by the government is 75 billion. K. While it is an excellent idea to have a step - in - line exchange of fiscal taxes, the distribution is of interest in this, of course. I'm asking if the highest. A minister cannot be found well laid, to say the least, to have the 75 billion stairmarks. K. and if it is not really worried that these changes will still increase the property balance in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u5	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. First of all, I think it would be very interesting to take together a collective relative to the development of property equations or property equations in Iceland. We saw to develop numbers last week from the Haguens, which suggest that their own money, especially young people, is increasing in Iceland, which is enjoyable while the highest level of money, although there is a high percentage, has actually stood in place as a ratio of failure. Before collapse, however, it was very high. I think it's interesting to take these matters together in a collective way, as the government has done in other matters. I remind you of the income history database where you can read about the development of provisions in Iceland and I think it's important that we do the same thing with our property status. Hv. A senator asks about a bill that has been in consultation with the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance. That bill hasn't come into the government table, and I guess it's in a perfunctory way to call out for comments such as that in the course of the year. A senator is coming with us. I don't think that genetic tax is a step - apart product, but it's going to make a lot of difference. A senator said, so I think that the right thing to do is to wait for what will be done in the hearing process and after a conversation with the government table where this case has not yet come to that level.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u6	Mr. President. It's a good thing to do. The prime minister does not give a strong answer that she intends to support this process because it is bad. It is news, however, that she is wondering if there is an increase in property balance in Iceland. I have now sent several council members in a series of requests to the minister of finance, and it has been reported that a very small percentage of the country's population is taking over the vast majority of the wealth and that property is under duplication in Iceland. I think it's wise to have a propressian genetic tax to counter compression, and I hope I have the highest support. Prime Minister, here we are talking about some real step. Then, of course, we can increase the number of holidays and other activities. I'm asking the highest. The prime minister again whether he will not support me in making this decision so that this will not add to the problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u7	Mr. President. What I referred to earlier is, of course, that I know the answers presented to good inquiries at the moment. Senator. I think it's important, though, that we get a better overall picture. I'm pretty sure that's what it is. A senator agrees with me when we consider national property status. To me, it is easy to say that I am prepared to examine the genetic exchange of taxes, but it is normal for me to feel that he is progressive, as it were. A senator expressed it, and looks especially to the contrary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u8	President. During these last days, troops of the Turks have made air raids in Northern Syria, as well as a military attack on two important towns. This invasion of Turks, in their fight against the Kurds, has already had disastrous consequences for those living in the area. The warriors have taken advantage of the last few days to kill civilians in the area. Hervin Khalaf was the chief secretary to the scurvy political party for the future of Syria. She was executed just outside the border this weekend. Some 70 civilians have since died in the middle of the last week and some 50 soldiers. The last time, Kurds negotiated with the Syrian army to secure the northern border of Syria. The largest sponsors of the Syrian army are Russians who could put this conflict on a more dangerous level. In the United States, last week, U.S.A. left them overnight, allowing the Turks to attack them. An outstanding lack of judgment by the President of the United States, unless it was deliberately done that is not better, has led to the release of more than 700 members of the ISIS terrorist organization. Civilians are dying daily and are heading for even greater conflict in the area. It's clear to everyone that with this, Americans have damaged their relationship with all their allies. So I must ask the highest. Foreign Minister: Can we rely on such defenses as the United States and Turkey? In view of our present situation, can we justify being in a defensive position with such countries as the United States and Turkey? Is it time to revise our presence in NATO?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u9	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the queries. Where it is. A senator here brings up an enormous issue. The messages we have received from the Icelanders, along with the countries we compare with, have been very clear. We strongly object to the actions of the Turks, as well as to condemn the offenses against public citizens that are now being revealed. There are very serious things already happening within a few days of the start of these operations. Hv. A senator referred to certain cases, but there are, unfortunately, more. I'm of the opinion, and I have not felt that the U.S. President's decision to withdraw his troops has been very miscommunicated. Despite the responsibility of the attacks and certainly not supported by the Atlantic alliance, which has not discussed them and therefore has not given any consent to them, they can have very serious consequences and even more serious consequences. We'll do what we can and we're even. in a conversation with our associates in the North, NATO, to make this message clear and try to pressure Turk to stop doing this. However, I do not believe that this calls for what a senator specifically asks here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u10	President. If Turks activate 5. The NATO agreement for the Northern Syria conflict - will Iceland respond? Can Turks drag us to war if the troops of Kurdah and Syria come back to Turkey? I think these are important questions to answer. I am deeply concerned about our presence in an alliance where the foreign policy of two member states seems to have gone mad. Or whatever we say stands before us as a nation may be opposed. So I must ask the highest. Minister again: Is national security, i.e. The security interests of our Icelanders, the best defenders in a defense alliance with such people?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u11	A respectable president. Therefore, it is fast reported that Turks cannot bring us Icelanders to war. To make this perfectly clear, they are acting in a way that no NATO nation has ever supported, not even a few. All messages coming from NATO member nations have been one way. Me and the Icelanders have had a similar message, not just in our language, but directly to the government in Turkey. That's all there is to it. What matters at this point is that we and other nations are doing what we can to minimize the damage that has been done. I'm sorry, if you look at it, you can't say it's over. The damage can be much greater than it is today. [[The president calls.]] We need to take this into account in our actions and words.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u12	A respectable president. During a discussion about the policy of the former prime minister in September 2017, the current prime minister said that poor people in Iceland should not be asked to wait for justice. She said the government assumes that the poor and the elderly would go on and enjoy shameful terms. V.E.G. The minister of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, has had two years to keep his word. People in poverty are still waiting. Although prime minister does not want to ask poor people to wait for righteousness, they are still waiting. Today, there are 70,000 microenergy pensions. lower than minimum wage. The budget bill currently available for the Council does not change, so the gap will increase to 86,000. month next year. I asked the highest. Minister of Social Affairs: How does the government calculate this? Is it with an excel document? How do they find the basis for people's survival on 70,000,86,000 K. a lower salary per month? With President's permission, the news on lunch day spoke of another terrified group: 'Counsel students on the brink of a nervous breakdown due to stress,' says the report, ◯ with nearly 320,000 p.m. in a month (days) That's a lot of pressure. You can hear from people who are on the brink of a nervous breakdown. It is also concerned that it does not have bills, does not eat, and does not go to the doctor. This is the case with individuals with 70,000 bucks. More than people who live, not in poverty, but in poverty. I ask the prime minister: How on earth do you expect this group to be able and to live at 70,000,800,000 bucks? a month less than the lowest wage in the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u13	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for bringing up a trial on the ideal micro-energy pensioner. He asks: "What's the government done? Let's go over it before it's too late. A senator. First, let us review the tax system changes that will be introduced through the years and will be of the best benefit in terms of low income, making most of the taxes. to microenergy pensioners and other less income groups. Let's talk about a couple of children in the group of microenergy pensioners. It's been shown exactly what I've talked about here, that children of disability are worse. That is why, not only are tax changes being viewed that are most beneficial to the low income but also special child benefits, which are targeted at the loss of income. Let's talk about the payment of disability and the elderly in the health system. What has happened since that government began? Yes, there have been progressive steps each year to reduce payment, the cost of medical care, including the costs of these people. to health care now, last time. It is taking real steps to ensure that our system is in line with what is happening in other parts of the North. Next, let us look at the 4 billion times. on the basis of a year that is being installed in this system to reduce the decline of disability - saving donors who have been their major struggles. Who's responding? Who is responding to that requirement after years of struggling against them? It is this government that is finally reducing them. And I have not even begun to discuss what is being done to strengthen the social housing system. Does it really matter to the poor people in general? Yeah. Does it matter to a micro-energy pensioner? You bet your ass I will. We are not to set low - income groups against one another. That's not what we're supposed to do. We are to look to ways in which we can increase the balance in our community. All these actions I mentioned will matter to people with income and make their lives better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u14	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for answers that were rather demeaning. She did not answer the question: Why should a person have 70,000 bucks? less in a month than underpayers? That doesn't change anything she listed, so does the little hired people. But that's the difference, he's $70,000. and goes up to 86,000. The same crutch is always used, i.e. the price of consumer science. In the 69th. The Law on Social Security clearly states that pay will be taken into account. This has never been done, it has never been determined by the development of pay. Remuneration has been taken into account when increasing the salary of members of Congress. Why can it not be taken into account that there has been a financial development in this country and that this group amend the challenge? A large portion of this 70,000 can be explained by the skin condition. And why have the poor and older citizens been separated and out of work? At one time, these groups had similar ideals, low - paying men, disabilityrs, and older citizens.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u15	Mr. President. Hv. A senator spoke here in particular about the ideal disability. I considered some of the measures that the current government has taken to improve, and they do not apply to all those with a low income; not when it comes to paying, for example, not when it comes to reducing the degree of impairment. However, this does not change the fact that the project is not completed. By tradition, under the law, you will be referred either to an consumption index or to a pay number that has a range. A senator is here. Of course, the project is not finished. Much was done at the time of the legalization for the elderly in 2016, when microenergy pensioners and older people entered the same system. It didn't work out. Now we have the highest staff. The social and child-friendly minister is producing specific scenarios in these matters, and, of course, the system modification is still where we're moving the micro-energy pension system to a better perspective than it is today. It's the next priority, of course, I'd say.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u16	Mr. President. During Christmastime, we take pride in having one of the best health systems in the world. All of us would also like to have the necessary medical care without regard to the economy. The health system in this country is one of the best, but it also contains fractions, the failures that must be beaten at the first discovery. This has often been a legal requirement for the law, and then it is the European Commission to enforce it. Ministers perform thewill of the legislature and detailed in the Regulation. This should ensure that the entire operating system is in the same rhythm. At this end, I come to the subject of my request, which is about the payment of a dental checkout. A little over a year ago, I turned a query to the highest level. A health minister for carve children born with a split palate or split lip and then a minister agreed that the distinction that a particular group of children seem to have in order to pay health care during dental work would be corrected. V.E.G. One minister said that it was not the Lawgiver's goal to set matters this way and said that he would look at matters with a view to making a change in this inequity of situation. Last December, the minister of Regulation No. 451/2013 with Regulation No. 1254/2018 on this topic. Mr. President. All of this would be the best if it were not for the fact that on the basis of the new Regulation, health insurance has still denied the parents of these children to pay their bills. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: Did the effect of the Regulation on this group of children, such as a minister planned, or was a minister planning to reform it after its experiences?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u17	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry and for keeping this matter awake. This is of utmost importance to the group discussed here. I think we're gonna do what. A senator shares his interest in improving the circumstances of the group discussed here. It is correct to ask questions at any time. Senator, the Regulation was changed to December less than a year ago to cover reimbursement for this particular group. Then it was not as simple as I had wanted, perhaps primarily because a number of children are having serious problems because of various other reasons, due to tooth defect, scrawny bites, forward jaw, etc. The cause of the problem is one and the severity of the defect is another, an effect on speech development, etc. However, I have stressed that Iceland's Medical Insurance reviewed the Regulation in consultation with the Ministry. The Council is now working on a change in Regulation No. 451/2013, about participating in health insurance at the health insurance cost of dental care. Their aim is to ensure that the payment of health insurance will take place as a result of needed dentistry as a result of a cut in the upper jaw or cleft gums. After discussing the matter, both with health insurance and the Land Hospital, I have also come to the conclusion that it is very important to take on some kind of team of experts in various fields when this type of birth defect is involved so that parents can immediately receive the professional and spiritual support that is needed in such cases. I hope that in the next few months, we will be equipped in an acceptable way to handle this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u18	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer and must express my satisfaction in revising the Regulation. I'm glad you're here. These parents are excited. They've been on the march for years. It's not a big group, a very small number of children have this birth defect. Their parents consistently choose to take preoperative measures to improve the quality of life of their children, which is a great benefit for their children simply because of their ability to deforme the face, they may not speak normally, and they may not eat normally. These measures are needed to prevent this from developing into them. I find it very risky if we as a society cannot attend to those born with this defect and participate in the expense of the one who is often great, especially in the country because people have to travel long distances and miss work. I am pleased with the answers of the minister and hope that she will handle this matter as soon as possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u19	A respectable president. I'm counting on it. A senator continues the material in this matter. We're on the same team to make things better. Because of what was presented in the previous question. I'd like to make a decision that it is perfectly clear that once the lawgiver has made clear his will, it is the project of the European Commission to make it happen. At the same time, only the minister himself - not the institutions and laws that follow. In this case, the Regulation that came from me last year does not clearly cover these cases, so this needs to be better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u20	Mr. President. I'm going to allow myself at the beginning of my case, in the interest of the first unsubstantiated inquiry, to point out that there is a bill from a council series for genetic tax reform where the approach is different from the bill of consultation, and I encourage the members of Congress to study it. But that's not why I'm coming here and I'm going to ask you a question to the highest level. Secretary of finance. On April 25 of 2018, a proposal was adopted here by making proposals for interpretation of the guarantee of quality, efficiency and effectiveness of public investments. It was suggested that the State set out policies to ensure these goals and, furtherly, a special team of experts would be joined by those who know and know the underlying issues. This arrangement adopted 47 senators, all members of the council who attended the vote. Less than a year ago, I had a language place at the top. The minister of finance, however, took steps to determine the progress of the project. With President's permission, the highest. Secretary of the budget: The thing about the case is that it's in progress, and I had it at the last time this week on my table and for release. So I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance whether the case is still on the table corner of the minister or if any developments have occurred in the case that he can report here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u21	A respectable president. The matter may first be that it is the first obligation of the government to care for the matters discussed in the Senate arrangement, i.e. to ensure that money, public funds, is being properly handled, working to improve the effectiveness of public service; not to view such a matter as some task that we specifically decide to do, and sometimes to be done temporarily, but to see in the way that what is being discussed in the synonym is among the primary duties of all resources, in the whole board of directors, in all institutions. Thus I can tell the senator that we have been working on many issues related to what is discussed in the conclusion. However, it is not yet time for a special group to end the matter of opinion, perhaps allowing such a group to work together with a government government that is exactly doing this work. There may be something that we need to discuss in the realm of government, how we should implement it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u22	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The secretary of finance for the answer, and surely agree with him that this is not a great project. Although I can understand to some extent that it may be necessary to wonder how to plant such a committee in the management system, it is also proper to remember that it does not in itself have any administrative role but to shape ideas. This was presented at the time to a Norwegian role model. This is a primary stage for discussing how to do things the best way and to present ideas and speculations. So I would have thought that it was safe to appoint this group to handle that task.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u23	A respectable president. I can match that. A senator, it may be helpful to review regularly whether the procedures, practices, and practices that have developed within the system are sufficiently in harmony with our own goals. I can report that, for example. that during my prime call, I have benefited greatly from the work being done in the field of consultation for increased prosperity that was taken into stitches on various progresses and reforms in the management system, which, for example, played a role. Buying the government, both on the lips and on the service. In that respect, I think we have a clear record of success, and this will continue to be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u24	A respectable president. Smoke groves are the largest rehabilitation center in the country where every year some 1,200 people come for rehabilitation in all parts of the country, rehabilitation that can be for many reasons, such as severe and chronic illness, serious accidents, overweight, or other illnesses. There is an even greater need, even though some 2,000 - year - long services are requested. These include more and less all persons who are considered workable who need to be reinvented and then back to the job market. Thus, in good rehabilitation, premature disability can be prevented or delayed by the expense provided for the government. Smoke grovel operates in another hundred cross-cutting cases; doctors, nurses, physical and occupational therapists, social experts, psychologists, speech pathologists, health therapists, nutrition counselors, and other specialized health professionals. The Agency was selected for 2017 and is second over the establishment of 2018 and 2018. Unfortunately, news reports in recent days indicate that the satisfaction of workers has diminished in keeping with the findings of the director and the medical director. My visit and my visit. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son has a Smokeloaf on Friday afternoon. We experienced directly into the vein the great dissatisfaction and terror now rift among the employees of Smoke. The workers challenged the Minister for a weekend to intervene in the Agency's administration, declaring the government of SIBS distrust. This is a serious situation, and it is important for all of us that in recent decades the good work being done at Smoke can continue. That's why I'm going to ask you to the highest level. Health Minister: What is the minister's position on the situation? Will a wise minister respond to the challenge of employees? Has a minister been in contact with SIBS and smoke-launderers?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u25	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's request and completely shares with the senator worry about the position that has come up, as well as her assessment of the importance of the work being done there. It's a major activity on smokeloaf, and I think the importance of rehabilitation in general will be delayed. As a matter of fact, I've started policy-making in the Ministry, which is about the importance of rehabilitation, from diagnosis and through therapy, and then rehabilitation. Rehabilitation is not just a chapter of operating people after accidents or disease; sometimes it is simply part of life itself. So I agree with that. I must say, the situation that came up in the days, late last week, totally surprised me. She surprised me in view of the years of stability there and the professional trust that has been involved in the operation there. However, it is true that with the laws on public shopping and health insurance insurance insurance, there is a definite framework for how the government buys private services and, in fact, my presence is only through the office of a land physician, who has a professional health care programme, and Iceland's Medical Insurance that handles the purchases. On the other hand, I have followed this discussion very closely, and not only in the news but also in talking with business associates, staff and management members of the SIBS and former leaders, with the guidance of trying to understand the matter better and encourage the level of calmness of the ministry to those who enjoy the ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u26	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for the answers and agrees with the importance of calming over this beautiful and important place of smell. I believe it is important that we ensure quality, diversity, and freedom of choice in our health care. Thus I also consider opportunities to ensure the practical and satisfyingness of users through the ministry. Self-employment institutions, such as SIBS, U.S.A., Coalition and the Red Cross, to mention some, provide important and delicate services for society. It is important to be a guard of this good and important work, and it is quite clear that the social wealth of such work is vast. By the law on public shopping, health insurance is required to extend services, and now it has been done for both the activities of the U.S. and the use of Smokeloon, that I know best. It is important that the quality and safety of these partners be ensured by a fair and good deal but there are also questions about control, management, commitment chain, etc. What is the vision of a minister of these things, and how do we make sure that this vital service is most effective? How do we guarantee a clear framework and a chain of responsibility for those who render this vital service? Is there any idea that a minister of a party's ship in the management of Smokehund, as it was until 2009, something to consider as a minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u27	A respectable president. Like what? A senator pointed to a government representative for a short period of time in the Ruyund regime. I think it's the right thing to remember that it happened five years ago that a government representative was no longer in the administration of this operation, and I put a question mark on it. I don't know what it was exactly that made that change. I think that is perhaps the most important thing in all, when we are discussing such important services, that the basis, both professional and professional, is that we do not have to look up for the change that took place last week. It is a shock to local professionalism, as well as to the patients and the general public, that this importance of part of health care is not based on a more solid basis than it shows. I think there's something that we need to review, taking into account the agreements, to better ensure this solid foundation, including commitment chain and clarity like that. A senator rightly points out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u28	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A health minister for coming here right now and having a place to talk about a subject that is extremely thoughtful to me, a really delicate subject that has been involved in the community, a health crisis that has been subject to incredible prejudices. That's why I'm standing here. I'd like to talk about that over the last three years, I've had a massive increase in drug abuse. It has increased in the group of new syringe users and has increased the rate of admissions for the entire group, a prominently ill group. The use of stimulating substances is increasing as well as the consumption of opioids, such as nothing new, that is what we face, and surely it has not diminished the severity. Much of the young people who are involved in the treatment of Vogi's Hospital are totally inactive in the community. He is not in a commercial market and is not a parent of his children. The physical and spiritual health of those who come from long - term consumption is very bad, especially in young women. FEW, health authorities and rural governments need to act together, we need to come together, and I have a heart - to - heart belief that our cohesion can lead to a successful success, far more effective than we are today. Now the list of waitings has increased to Vog even the longest, with an increase of about 100 people on a waiting list over a year. Now they're right about 700. To think that we will also face the fact that over 6,000 people between 20 and 40 years of age have been medically diagnosed with addiction. Those are pretty big numbers, Mr. Honorable President. It can be said that when the group is as large as it really is, it makes the wrong impression in the community that we use words about the problem, such as perimeters or perimeters. As I was saying, 6,000 individuals from 20 to 1940 years of age have been diagnosed. This is a long - term problem, and it is certainly not a health minister to blame for this. She's been in her office for almost two years now. I'm not going into this discussion to be in some kind of an exposé style and take a political shot. I face the serious problem in society today and I mean that we can do much better. I believe it. Imagine, for example. if we were just in the busy room about two in the hospital house, Vogi. It would take us over a year and a half to finish the wait list. We can do this if we join together, wherever we stand, as I like to say. We also need to recognize what is in store for the individuals who are finally treated. There are few who can enjoy more and less support. There's no farm plan, there's no need to help them get into their jobs or anything like that. After going through treatment and seeking help, people come full of expectations and optimism about new and better lives. These individuals often end up with no. 701, 702 and 703 respectively because they soon fall. The support network that awaits them does not exist at all. Before I direct a direct question to the Minister in particular, I would like to point out the seriousness of what we have seen about the deaths of addiction. Since 2013, 98 men who were recognized as dying from drug poisoning have died. At the same time, 76 women have died from drug poisoning. We are talking about men and women of 174, and now we are not talking about those who took their own lives. How many of the more than 50 people who committed suicide each year were affected by something we would like to have helped them get rid of? I want to know what the highest part is. Healthcare Ministers are doing what they have on the table and what they provide for them, how we should build up, for example. The preventatives and anything we could do, if we really were to promote it. I'll be the first person to take free duty to help and support these people. It's a human being we can't afford to lose. [[The president calls.]] We are talking about a social tragedy when we see these deaths and conditions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland Land for requesting this special discussion. I'm happy to be part of it. The senator requested a waiting list for treatment, an examination of opioids, afetamine and cocaine, along with the fact that deaths due to suspected drug toxicity would be specifically discussed. I come first to a waiting list for treatment, but as shown in the history of a waiver. A senator is Vogg one of the largest alcohol and drug abuse centres in the country, and according to information, 700 people have already requested admission to the Gug. In addition to requests that come from the individual themselves, there are requests from health or social professionals, mental health clinics and community welfare committees. The waiting list is different from the waiting lists in general at the health care facility, where only professionals will evaluate the health care professionals and will register individuals on the waiting list. The land hospital also treats alcohol and drug addiction, and it is important to wait for Vogi and Land Hospital treatment to be examined in a context. There is a good cooperation betweenprogs and Lands Hospital, and a certain workforce has developed between these two institutions, where the National Hospital has been treating patients with severe withdrawal symptoms and acute psychiatric problems often accompanied by high levels of drug and alcohol consumption. In January 2018, there was a waiting list for the Narcotic Addiction Department of Eight Hospitals, a waiting list in recent years about 20. In the past one to two years, there has been a large increase in very serious cases of dependence, i.e. very sick people who have a difficult reaction with acute psychiatric problems related to their addiction. A land hospital has cared for and specialized in that group, but there are, of course, emergency situations treated on Vogi as clearly indicated. As I've been in the past in the discussion of the waiting lists and alcohol and drug problems, I've speeded up work at a total conference for the treatment of alcohol and drug problems, and that work is going on. I'd also like to say here, according to a waiver. The budget and the World Parliament's Committee for the past budgets were increased by 150 million for the year 2019, on the current year, on the budget and on the bill for 2020, and are still expected to be included. Second, wish who. A candidate following a discussion of opioids, amfetamine and cocaine, while July 1, 2018, the product reference Regulation went into force, i.e. Regulations currently signed, and dispensing of medicinal products which include limits the prescribed opioid and inducing medicines. If the use of these medicinal products is considered one year prior to the implementation of the regulations and one year after the required dose, then opioid prescription has been reduced by 9.2% and the number of daily doses studied, and opioid-prescribed individuals have decreased by 5.8%. It reduces these medicines and lowers the number of these people. This has resulted in a 3.6% reduction in the number of daily doses taken during the same period, although the number of subjects who accept it has increased by 8%. For aminamine usage, only a small portion of it is derived from the prescription. However, the use of amines has been reduced by 14% and the number has decreased by 9% according to statistics from the surgeon's office, so there is a direct result. However, if a number of patients are considered to be hospitalisations at the hospital Vand due to inducing substance addiction, it is found that the number of patients due to amfetamine addiction remains constant in recent years. However, there has been an increase in cocaine addiction admissions, and in 2018 51% of the terms "Vog" due to the inducing substance addiction. At the latest, an abbreviation wants a review of deaths due to suspected drug poisoning. Drug-related death is defined according to the international statistical classification of disease as accidental intoxication, intentional self-poisoning and devoid of purpose as it is called in these statistics. During the past decade, the annual number of drug - related deaths has been between 23◯39, and it is difficult to say whether there is a significant change between years when the average is not higher, although all of us can agree on the average being too high and every human life too much. Drug related deaths are generally slightly more frequent in males than in females, and in recent years there were on average 16 such cases in males and 12 in women. Looking back to 2018, there were 37 drug related deaths and nine of those subjects were under 30, four between 20 and 2.4 years of age, and five between the ages of 25-◯29. The Ministry has specifically sought information on the registration of naloxone nasal spray in Iceland that is useful in the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. The product has now been authorised and can be expected in the following months. While the nasal spray is available for prescribing of the expanded product leaflet. A respectable president. Of course, this is a health problem, but there will be no improvement unless, in cooperation with a number of community members, both in prevention and treatment. [[The president calls.]] I can't wait to hear what others have to say. Councilmen have suggested that the discussion be conducted.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u30	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Sæland Howland for starting this discussion and Minister for being here to answer. This problem has been covered by the person here who has a big heart problem, and I would like to discuss the increased length of waiting for treatment, one of the questions. Now it has been observed that the list of waitings has grown to a maximum of 700 people, long enough for 600. The minister mentioned earlier that this point had been added to financial aid last year, up to 150 million. They did not go to that job directly but had other jobs, and now the waiting list goes on. This is a serious matter, and it's amazing that we can't work to shorten the waiting list so that we can help people who want to be treated. It is once so that those suffering from this disease, alcoholism, addiction, are not always ready to seek help. When it comes to giving up and asking for help, help is desirable. Many of the people in the waiting lists are gone because of them when it comes to them or even dead. It's unannounced. So I challenge the government and health minister to work on it, in agreement with the Veng treatment centre, to set these matters straight. There are professionals who are completely familiar with these matters, the best health - care providers in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u31	A respectable president. First, I want to thank the advocate of this important discussion. She needs now and, unfortunately, will continue. I just want to agree with what's been going on here. The problem is enormous and we're at the highest. A minister has already discussed the need to put power into this assignment. We've been talking about the amount of medication in the pharmacy being way too high. I think that every person can see in his closets when a small portion of medicine is used and we have put together an example of what I showed at the highest point. Minister. Of course, with the waiting list, the drug market is entering a fast - growing drug market. An offer is far beyond what most people can imagine. It's an amazing supply of drugs. Despite the fine performance of customs guards who took some of the two large shipments, the one at Cheflavík and the other in Norwegian, which are about two large shipments, U.S.A., U.S.A., doses of 60,000,700,000 tell me the price has not been dropped at the market. It tells the whole story about how strong the market is here in Iceland and far beyond what you would have believed. Of course, I mentioned the above medical drugs, which are used as payment for sex and also exorbitant black markets around it. Almost all treatment in Iceland is run by independent institutions. They get government grants, but they get far more for every dollar than if the operation was in the hands of the state. Even so, it is important to keep the heart in that institutions and pioneers there, and they need more money. There are Voggis, Hyskot and Krysavík; we need to strengthen them far more than we do today to shorten the waiting list.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u32	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying a lot about this conversation that we should actually have at the council every week, since in this country, we lose a lot of people because of drug abuse, except for those who fall by suicide, accidents, or other terrible events related to consumption. At an elected week, we met with members of the United States on a learnable visit to the U.S.A., and we were allowed to look inside both the treatment station and the Vog. The waiting list for treatment is not six individuals, not 60 persons, but 692 who often have families, children, mates, mothers, fathers, siblings. These aren't just numbers, you see, they're almost 700 Jónn and Gummar and Heiður and annar in all families. It's just us all around, all kinds of people. Some are very ill. Others are trying to get first help, but they have to wait for months. Half of the people looking at Vog are aged 18-035. What has mainly changed during the past few years is the growing number of people who have injected themselves, but last year there were nearly 450 people who had injected themselves. It seemed a few years ago, quite deaf. In 1995, alcohol abuse resulted in less than 70% of alcohol abuse, but last year the proportion of alcoholics was only 29%. This is a fundamental change. The rest came because of addiction to drugs of any kind. V.E.G. Minister. I think we've got to get into big business or, rather, national action in prevention. We can't just let it flow. We need to take that road now to prevent people from becoming addicted, to prevent us from facing it in 10 years or 20 that we will be here filled with addicts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u33	Mr. President. This is where we take the initiative. paritaprevir Inga Sæland Land, if there's a drug epidemic in Iceland. First, I want to thank the senator for bringing the matter up, for it is very important to keep the discussion on this important subject alive, uninformed, and uninvited. Sad to say, the fact that drugs are easy today is drug driving, e.g. become far more common than alcohol - dependent driving. That in itself is a concern. An apocalyptic was particularly focused on certain substances, such as opioids, amines, and cocaine, and I take into account her concern about the increased amount of these hard substances in circulation. Cocaine's follow-up fish has been crack cocaine smoking, but I understand that they go down to young people. For Icelandic youths, studies are being conducted regularly in high school and high school schools by the Research Centre and analysis that measure various aspects of young people's lives, such as alcohol and drug abuse. In recent years, we have not seen results indicating that drug abuse is increasing in this group, which is very enjoyable compared to the situation today. Each individual is an important person, and we need to improve measures where he or she needs to be present in the community. Part of it is a so-called MST treatment strategy for the families of children aged 12◯18 who are suffering from serious behavioral and/or drug problems, where the activities have been greatly increased recently in order to increase their availability throughout the country of the service and to eliminate the post-treatment waiting list. Teaching and prevention are very important and awe - inspiring to see the power that individuals and associates can unleash, and it is vital that the State enables them to carry out a more efficient operation on a national level.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u34	A respectable president. Drug abuse, addiction, and other problems resulting from drug abuse are always part of our society and have always been a relatively recent factor, although it is relatively recent that so - called illicit drugs have been promoted. I appreciate this discussion because it's important. How important it is that we do well in prevention, management, education, and all of that. I don't take anything out of it, but I still find it strange how the Allied Council is tested, in the media, and in the general community, to comfort the patient at the same time as he's spanking his ass. Regardless of what some members of the council in this room might think of drug addicts, this is a hated group in the community. He's hated and treated badly. I think that before people develop a serious addiction problem, they use drugs for some time without having any visible problems. At all that time, people are raised by the authorities themselves to fear and distrust the authorities. I have the theory that this is part of the problem. If we're to be convincing that we care about this group, we need to act that we care about him. That means, for example. that we should cancel the penalty for holding doses in the first place. That's one of the things we have to do. Here's a nice bill for you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen on that subject, and on it, all groups are sitting here, except for forward, Independence Party and Central Party. By doing this, I do not want to reduce anything else that others have talked about about about the importance of having strong preventive measures and strengthening them as needed, but we must not forget these things either. Whether these are patients or people who may someday become patients, or perhaps not, they should not be punished at the same time we stand here and say they're going to help them so much. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u35	Mr. President. There are huge issues on the program related to the drug habit; treatment delays, opioids, amfetamine and cocaine, and subsequent drug toxicity. I'd like to focus my attention on prevention. What is access to preemptive education in school? What's going on with the school with the surgeon? A surgeon has a legal role in the management and health care of the surgeon. A so - called ACE study, in the English Averse Childhood Experiences Study, is a large study that has been conducted since 1995. It has clearly shown the link between childhood experiences and traumatic events and health problems, including addictions, later in life. According to this study, children who have experienced tragedy are far more likely to become addicted to drugs later in life. This is a lot of concern, but at the same time, can we ask, " Is this not something we can take advantage of? Is it better than we do by fighting to treat them after they become addicted to drugs? ' We have often discussed various screenings in the Assembly Hall during a discussion on health care. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of health care whether it is within her ministry, in cooperation with the educational authorities, to examine children's screening in some way in relation to these risks. It would certainly be possible to strike a number of flies, to find children who have suffered some type of trauma, and to provide them with professional assistance to cope with the trauma, including some of them. Not only do they - to reduce their chances of becoming victims of drugs later in life, in other words, to emphasize the importance of getting to the root of the problem and working for us from there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u36	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæland Happyand for starting this discussion and Minister for participating in it. We are discussing a huge problem, and no one knows in itself when he can be on that side of the board, whether by chance or not, because of the trauma, an accident, a waiting list, and the need to take strong painkillers. Nobody knows who gets hooked. Still, we must look at our priorities as well. How do we put money first? Yes, we're talking about, and the minister was talking about 150 million being put in this suit. [[Top of the list: an additional one.]] Another one? Okay, but what is e.g. Are you putting up additional budgets on the media board? Three times more, 450 million. I'm asking you, are there waiting lists after a media committee? Is this where life lies? Is someone dying there? No, it's right here. That's why I'd like to turn it around, get 450 million here, and 150 million on the press committee if over my head is needed so much money there. We have always set priorities in order, and we have demonstrated that with prevention, we can prevent and reduce all things. We have already shown this by taking precautions to school about smoking, about alcohol. We are winning great victories there, and we are to view this drug problem in exactly the same way. We have to start kindergarten. We have to start education first. That's how we get it, and that's how we're supposed to think about it. It's a health problem, nothing more.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u37	Mr. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Inga Sæland, for bringing up the matter which is truly important. I agree with the members of Congress who have spoken of this as something that must always be discussed at the council. We're supposed to be thinking about these things all the time. Like other health problems, we must look to the fact that addiction is a health problem. We need to help one another and help one another to eliminate the prejudices against this type of disease and against those facing it. That's extremely important. For example, we can thus avoid the pitfalls we face with ourselves. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson came in earlier: Is it better to put the money in this, or is it better to put it in the other? We need to focus on this as a problem. We have patients we need to help. The importance of the third sector has been established in the treatment of dependence. Indeed, the third sector is an important and even more important factor in the damage done to him, such as to form Mrs. Ragnhei, which is of utmost importance. Actually, the discussion in my opinion is crystal in that we have to face the problem. We need to recognize our own prejudices, and we need to recognize and help this group of patients.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u38	V.E.G. President. I would like to receive my second talk on this subject to the import of drugs, which has increased dramatically in recent years and has never been as much of an illegal drug import as it is today. As a result, the market prices have fallen because of the high availability. I've been thinking about what you can do. The politics must shape a clear policy on these drugs. You can't offer what's going on today. In the Middle East, we made a clear suggestion last year for the import of drugs by promoting customs monitoring. It was rejected by other categories, and it just isn't good enough. A clear policy is what we need to determine how we want to respond to and follow it closely. It is natural to say, as some have said, drugs should be legal but not illegal, but it is much bigger. If we are going to do something about this right now, we need to build up our customs so that a trace of the import can be practical and not do in some kind of tool today. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u39	V.E.G. President. Like others, I am very concerned about this problem. We are trying to solve it in various ways. During a period of time, we believed that we could use punishment to solve it. I think it's also very simple that growing the volume of solvent for this problem. This is much related to other problems, feelings of distress, mental disorders, and mental health problems. It's not some sort of independent thing that we're putting on to Vig, and then it's all gone well. We've been preemptive. It is much bigger now than when we were younger, but the problem grows and grows, and we should wonder why it grows. Is there anything in our community that makes us feel worse? Is there anything in the family pattern? Is there something else? What causes this? Are we without discipline? Is your upbringing involved? Why is this? Why are we feeling so bad? I don't know the answer. I don't think we'll work out here in a short discussion, but it's incredibly complicated. We can ask ourselves, " Is there more or less medicine in my mind? It doesn't matter. ' If there are others, the black market is only bigger and vice versa. We can talk about this forever. But why do we feel so bad? Those who are in the worst situation have had many treatments, almost all of them. We have a lot of resources available, including. at the hospital, at the Hl surgery cabin, at Vogi, but we're not going to get any results. [[The president calls.]] Consider the cause, not all the time dealing with the consequences.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u40	Mr. President. It is old and new that Iceland and I sometimes spend a huge amount of time on a case that is a little trivial but too little time on matters that really matter. Whether this is an example of us getting completely hopeless about a giant project or simply don't know how to tell the target from the core, I don't know, but we need at least one. putting a focus on the important things. Here, for example. everything has been fraught with the deer lately, since six individuals in the 300 million people have died as a result of their use at the same time. The cause is not necessarily light. It has certainly been discussed here, and it needs to be taken. Young people need to be kept away from this, but I feel that it is simply a little bit more than just a few years ago when it comes to heavy drugs. Each year, very many die because of this enemy, and he is not partial. People can imagine that if, in a short period of time, there were 40,650 young people killed because of traffic accidents, they would have started every malaria machine in the country, all the engineering fleet, and set up something to cope with this. Then it was called an emergency. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we are dealing with an emergency. The good news, however, is that this is not a group of political issues. This is something that all of us should be able to combine to spend more time and money on, whether it is for prevention, to improve society and people's well - being or treatment, resources and space. paritaprevir Brunes the son of Níelsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u41	Mr. President. It's very enjoyable, which happened at the highest. Healthcare secretary, that new prescription regulations have reduced their prescriptions for the medicinal product. It was in the past that such large doses were being written out at any given time, usually three months' doses are being released for people, that there might be a decrease, so we can manage something by just changing the rules and other things around them. It is also very good news. There we can, with the prevention and screening, do great things and are being screened for feelings of well-being, e.g. In high school, there are certain individuals who will be able to continue to help out there. Children under 18 years of age need parental permission that is good, but when they get older, they can refuse to participate in screening. Another factor that is also working is an improvement in the availability of psychological services, and it has been improved by health care, so that psychologists too are there. It's going to have to be done a lot better for all over the country. Then there are challenges, since while waiting lists are long, not everyone on the waiting list is ready to go to the treatment at the time. Reykjavíkurburg, however, has a very ambitious assignment on homeless housing, which is often among those in this group. I know that Reykjavíkurburg is asking for assistance from other rural communities, who have individuals in this group, to help with financing, which is very good because it is not a uniform group, there are very different individuals in these waiting lists.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u42	Mr. President. Thank you for the fine discussion that has taken place here. I want to talk only about the diversity of treatment and quality control because I think it is very important that individuals, as diverse as they are, and as many as they are, who feel that they need any treatment and help, can choose a variety of treatments that are aimed at their needs. Admittedly, many people can turn to e.g. The AA Association, but it's not for everyone to call on some higher power to deal with their problems. Also, it's not all right for everyone to go to the U.S.A. I don't know better than that there's a lot of emphasis there, for example. on the brain disease theory where addiction is claimed to be a brain disorder, but less regarded as the psychological and sociological factors of the addict. These are things that I think are important to look into, and I also want to get the top question involved. Minister. I was thrilled to learn that she was working on a total conference for treatment and treatment. I think it's very important that we have some quality and some external control to see if there's any benefit to these treatments. If we pump huge sums of money into our treatments, how will we apply them after these treatments succeed? I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Has the U.S.A. responded to the surgeon's indications of achieving measurable quality and services targets and developing internal checks, including to test the quality and success of the ministry? That's what I want to ask you. True, I think it's very important that people get to the U.S.A. but also that there are other options. [[The president calls.]] Most important, I ask, "Is the treatment we offer and pay for any success and the fact that we can observe it? "
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u43	Mr. President. The system that awaits those who want to quit is not diverse in this country. IN A recent year, a congregation of brothers and some enter the Land Hospital, but we know that it is not simple to get into that place and that it has been brought into this room many times. The questions are followed by the questions: Is this the best solution for all? I pondered, especially in view of what I had specifically mentioned in my first speech, that research has clearly shown the connection between difficult experiences and childhood trauma and addictions, whether there is no need for more prescription for addicts. Is it not evident that the same or similar measures work for everyone? In fact, I claim that it is, with all due respect for the fine work being done, e.g. United Kingdom. We need to catch young ones who are at high risk for trauma. As adults, we must not lose sight of the fact that the problems are not over until later in life. We know of this connection. In that light, I'd like to remind you of our bill in Retory that psychological services are subject to our payment system. That bill received much support during the last assembly in the Assembly Hall, including the U.S. a transfer from all members of the council, but they were not paid for springtime. Putting psychological services under the payment system would certainly be an important factor in responding to the facts of childhood trauma and drug abuse. Finally, I want to remind you of the importance of various harmful measures. That's where we could do better. We're about to do better if there's a list of issues, so let's hope for a better change, including a better one. with a planned opening of consumers, which hopefully meets with the immediate and unscrupulous possession of drugs. [[The president calls.]] That matter is still on schedule. It's all hanging out. We are not talking about one option that suits all. We must start thinking past that fence. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u44	A respectable president. How grateful I am for the fine counsel given here! Thank you very much. A health minister, along with all others, shows that our heart beats to rhythm. However, I have to admit that I was disappointed with the conversation at the highest level. Secretary of health. I bring her three points and I give her a fawn on how she decides to interpret it, whether it's about her own chemistry, waiting list, or death. All the time I thought it was in nature that you wanted to see what was going on, what was on the table of the health minister, prevention, and such. All these matters we've been discussing before, that's perfectly clear. The fact is, there are 700 waiting lists now in the Vog. It has exactly the same efficiency as before. Yet, the exact same waiting list has increased by 100 individuals. I'm only talking about this treatment agency that has shown internationally that it has been successful, and I'd like to point out why. paritaprevir The Ævarsdóttir Ævarsdótir's challenge is that even if it has the direct inquiry to the minister, it can be filled with detailed information on measuring capacity. The fact is, we're going down the hill. I can feel it. I tried before to talk as if we weren't in some political bitch. The answers I received were extremely systematicly down by 1 percent. I'm mainly looking at the tremendous challenges and the big projects that I think we can take together. I wish that we would step outside the box and acknowledge the problem with all our heart, making it absolutely specific to work at the problem and meet those who really need help. Whether it is a family, social, social, or psychological matter, as we know, a great deal of affection, and so forth, the fact is that this is health issues. There is, this problem is here, and we are solving it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u45	A respectable president. I'm sorry if I've caused it. A senator disappointed in the discussion, but I've loved it. There are several points I would like to mention at the end and say here, both at the time. proponents and other members of Parliaments, these are vital factors that arise during the discussion, both in the prevention, as well as in the interaction between trauma and addiction. Happily, in later years this discussion has been very progressive and has been associated with events of youth and physical health. Happily, health care has become increasingly aware of this interaction. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson said that there were others who have done so, including Yeah. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson We must be careful that our discussion here does not really reflect prejudice, which is the approach that there is only one simple way to save the case and that there is an increase in beds or to add money into one particular resource. Sadly, that is not the case. I'd also like to say that in Vogi, there has been a targeted priority for those who are in desperate need, youths under 20 years, people who seek treatment for the first time, people who have not been committed in the past ten years; because of social conditions, child care, pregnancy, or other such. All these people get inside between seven and 14 days. That's it. These people are in first place. It asked if there was quality or something like that on Vogi, at the SA, but it's not yet. Of course, it is, and it is health policy that all health - care providers provide quality and effectiveness, as well as those who are traders for the State to see what the situation is. [[The president calls.]] Finally, I want to say: It's a health issue, but it's also simple to just talk about it as a health matter. This is the work of society, toll government and police, but it is also the work of schools, homes, families, and society in general because it is also a matter of priorities and values. [[The president calls.]] That is why we need to be careful that we do not complete the discussion within a single source of code.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u46	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize a legal adjustment to the General Assembly. I present the bill on behalf of the International Presidency Committee, all of whom are assigned to the bill along with the audience members of the Archipelago and the Gangs. The subject of the bill transport is that at the end of the last council, the General Assembly agreed to agree to change the information code to hide the information. in that information laws take place in the administration of the General Assembly as it would be further established in the General Assembly and the regulations of the Presidency Committee, which will be established on the basis of them. In accordance with the principles of the European Union on transparency in the administration and on access to data on government activity, the bill suggests that the principle of the public's information rights applies to the activities of the General Assembly under its administration. In this context, it must be noted that when it comes to handling Congress, there is already extensive access to information on the activities of the Generals. It belongs, for example. for the Council's legislation, the handling of the budget and the surveillance work of the council. There have been also rules for open meetings of regular committees and information on pay and the annual fees of members of Congress have been recently made available on the council website until the total election in 2007. However, it is assumed that the information on paid accounts can be checked from the Office's accounts in a similar way, now on paying recruitment accounts and establishments from the state accounts and is working to implement these changes. Then, at last, it can be noted that from 2008, the policy of the Generals' office was developed to comply with the standards of information legislation in the management of the media on information presented by a reference to their law. Information requests from the media have given us access to information on the cost pay provided by members of the Parliament and their closer arrangements, and as already said, it is a challenge to make it all public and accessible. A closer look at the General Assembly will show that there has always been a distinction between the traditional election work and the council administration. That's what the 9th says. The local Parliament that the president of the Generals has the supreme authority in the council administration and in Article 8. to direct requests to the President of the Parliament requesting a written answer to the council administration. Then it is the Commission's job to set general rules for the management and administration of the General Assembly, such as Article 10. Despite this separation, however, it is necessary to establish more closely the set of information laws with regard to the other activities of the Council. It belongs, for example. we are already involved in the activities of members of the Parliament, the services of the Generals' Office, the activities of the Parliaments, their employees and the data generated in the relations of these parties, such as with the Senate research services, as well as the communication of the EIC with its institutions, e.g. investigational committees. In accordance with new sources of information, the bill assumes that the Presidency Committee establishs rules based on Article 2. The bill that will be more specific to the action of the council that falls under its administration. Follow the bill on such rules, but the rules of the 2009 Norwegian Council were guided by their agreement on public access to its data. Mr. President. The bill means that after 90 C.E. General Parliamentary Congress, which discusses the release of discussions at the General Assembly and the Parliament, will be provided with a new article in which there will be an overview of the activities that will be carried out under the Council's administration and to the information rights under the Enlightenment under the Enlightenment Act. The first paragraph of the law suggests that the Council's administration will be formally distributed. This means that the activities of the Generals, which include administration, and the President of the Generals have the highest authority under the framework of information law. This also applies to the matters held by the prime committee and the President of the Generals, according to Parliamentary Regulations and other laws, or in the case of the President or President Committee, often in connection with a certain turning point in Icelandic society. The Presidency Board expects further access to information on the European Parliament's administrations and how it will be further restricted to the activities that are subject to the actual Senate work, i.e. The work being done by the Generals as a representative of the National Committee. This is not expected to include documents relating to the General Parliamential Work, which includes members of Parliaments and Parliaments, as well as their employees and contacts, to form at the General Assembly office, including the Senate research services. At the same time, there may be discussions between individual members of Congress and members of the Parliament with the government in preparing legal matters. In the accompanying draft, the Presidency Commission's rules are beginning to specify the material and the information provided by the Court, which data are excluded from information rights, and what data are permitted to limit access. Let us consider these points in paragraphs 3 and 4. The rules, and we explain them, and I'll point them out. Councilmen are to study the dissociation that exists, and they are at a loss, and hopefully as limited as possible so that no one can doubt the games here. The rules also allow receipt and treatment to be required for information. This means that the request for information will be directly addressed to the Generals office and that the office manager will take a stand for it. The Synji office manager requests the delivery of data is expected to shoot his decision to the Presidency Committee. Taking into account the legal structure of the Conventional Convention and the cost of a senator's decision on payment by the office manager on payment by law to the presiding committee as a decision to the senator's rights. This means that the rules of the Presidency Committee will be published in the Management Board's B department. At the end of this trial, it is proper that the Council's administrative committee does not agree with the activities carried out by the Universal Agent, State accountant, and research committees under the regulations of research committees. Include a set of rules based on the position of these institutions, which enjoy independence in their jobs with governments and the General. On access to the information provided by these individuals, the laws that take into account the nature of the work carried out there and the uniqueness of the institutions or organisations working under the cover of the Council are still independent of their jobs. V.E.G. President. Now, I'm done reporting the main topic of the bill. After this discussion, I suggest that this be done to the management and monitoring committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u47	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to correct traffic laws, No. 77/209. The bill is on the roof. 176. I'm taking the bill on behalf of the environment and transport committee. This is a very small bill, just two articles. 1st par. It reads: ▪ Instead of the words '-'- '46. par., 47. gr. to 94. g. The law's coming in: 45, respects47. gt.How long have you been here? 2.g. It reads: ▪ This law already comes into effect. This is made clear in the preceding article. The bill is aimed at correcting the mistakes that had been through the completion of the bill to the traffic law adopted during the spring Summit. By means of the bill, the correction referred to in accordance with Article 94. traffic contracts approved at 149th legislation. The bill to the law required the 95th paragraph. to violate the specific requirements of the law, including 45. Gr., covered the tickets. Directive 45. g. has general rules about driving motorcycles. In the treatment of the case, the reference came to 45. g. Dismissively but not intended to commit a crime against that law without a penalty. So it gives the committee a reference to Article 45. this will be added to the 94nd paragraph. The law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u48	Mr. President. I propose a council party to stand by for Congress resolution on Akureyri as the center of northern affairs in Iceland. The suggestion reads: The Council concludes that Akureyri will be established as the centre for the affairs of the northern lands in Iceland and that the minister of foreign affairs should propose a proposal for the development of the Arctic operation carried out in Akureyri, in cooperation with appropriate government and regional institutions in Iceland. The proposal is available in January 2020. Mr. President. As most of them know, Akureyri has long been called the capital of the north. The town is one of the largest rural society outside the capital area and is the center of industry, commerce, and knowledge creation in the north. The Arctic Circle is passing through the rural society of about a year. 60 miles north of Akureyri through Grima Island, which is part of Akureyri City. It may thus be claimed that the city of Akureyri is literally our territory at the Arctic. As noted in the news last week and also in recent years, Arctic issues will become more and more important in the changing world, with Iceland's special status as Arctic states in many ways. In fact, few countries have as much interest in economic development in the region as in Iceland. In recent years it has developed to become the Arctic centre in Iceland and has been declared more than once by stewards on solemn occasions that Akureyri plays that role. However, it has never been formally decided, and it has been suggested that the movers of this council agree on a basis to do so. Many Arctic institutions, such as the Founding of the Williams Stefansson, the Office of the International Arctic Scientific Committee, and the CAFF, the abbreviation of the English Institute for Conservation of Arctic Flora and Fauna, and PAME, in the English Proteology of the Marine Environment, which is a regular task force in the Northern Council, are located in Akureyri. The University of Akureyri is part of the University of the North and is a student at the Arctic Court, the Northern Research Council, as well as the location of the University of Research Center in Akureyri and the Research Center for Tourism. They also operate in the stupid court. At that time, a local company has formed an organization among its trades, the Arctic Services, designed to perform industrial and technological services in Greenland. There is also the Northern URL, which is also located in Akureyri, and especially Iceland's North-English International Service Centre, which is the cooperation centre of the institutions, companies and members of the European Union, which work on the affairs of the north. Then there are a number of events involving the Arctic Circle that have been held in Akureyri, this last week. In recent years, the Akureyri Society has given high priority to active involvement in the northern and non-outlands of the country, including the United States and the United States. involved and actively involved in North-country organizations. Thus, Akureyri City has actively participated in various Arctic organizations, such as Northern Forum, which are an organization in cooperation with regions of the north on the environment and on human life. At the same time, Akureyri City, one Icelandic partner, has been invited to participate in the scene of the city and mayor of the north, called the Arctic Mayor of England, which was officially set up at a meeting in Akureyri on October 10th of October. He was the Ásthildur of Akureyri City, Lovehildur Sturludóttir, elected the first president. Mr. President. Iceland is now leading the Arctic Council. The prehuman existence of Iceland is based on the good work that has been done at the North Pole in recent years. This suggestion is not to belittle those who are working in other parts of the country, unless less so, but it is here to acknowledge the expertise and the work that has been done so far in Akureyri, putting on increased emphasis and supporting it. We have examples of such things from other countries, e.g. Tromsø, Norway, and Rovaniel, Finland, both known as northern cities. It is important to continue to make good use of the knowledge and experience that has been built up in Akureyri in northern affairs as well as to strengthen the town's position as the northern city of Iceland. Transporters of the Parliament's odorary proposal are, in fact, a group of members of the United States Congress. Finally, I suggest that the proposal be referred to a discussion on the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u49	A respectable president. Can't we all agree that Akureyri is the center of the North Sea in Iceland? I come up here to thank you. A messenger for the proposal I think is worth all the attention but may raise some questions and perhaps mainly as to the formal confirmation that Akureyri will become a center in the affairs of the north in Iceland and what will be included in the formal confirmation. Then I wondered, " Is it possible for tourists to visualize the involvement of more institutions than the above mentioned? ' It comes to mind an economist located in Akureyri, and equality is one of the major subjects involved in cooperation in the north. I wondered if there could be more opportunities than the ones mentioned in the proposal to support and strengthen this work. Then I wondered if it's only a matter of the State Department or if there's a need to drag more departments to work, although only the Ministry of Prime Ministers and even the Environment and Resource Ministry, since it certainly has a very important role to play. On the other hand, the affairs of the north are naturally intertwined into the whole of society. One of the main factors is prevention, as was the case here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u50	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's negative for this fine answer, and she rejoices that she considers this proposal worthy of attention. The reason we do not make certain choices is that we want to give a minister the opportunity to work with it only. I see, for example. for me to further strengthen the Arctic network and to promote it so that it will become a larger and stronger region of the Arctic community in Iceland. They're already doing some really good things, but I think it's possible to do even more by promoting that job. I like the idea that you're thinking. A senator pulling into this - I saw it as always - more institutions in Akureyri, as well as all over the country. However, while we're talking about Akureyri City being the center of the north, we're not saying that it should be the only place to do north-south jobs. Rather, we're looking at other institutions, and especially those located in Akureyri, such as the Equal Court. As far as I'm concerned, I'm now counting on the highest level. Secretary of State to call them the job they feel needs. In fact, he has repeatedly declared that he sees Akureyri as the center of the Arctic. But the reason why I thought it was right to make this suggestion, despite the statement. Minister, he may not always be a foreign minister. As a result, it is normal and important to form in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Flanders, daughter of Elíasdóttir, for the answer. I continued to wonder how such formalities would strengthen the leadership of Akureyri. What, then, could help the candidate to take the lead, is it not something that the senator envisions? How might formal status affect the state of the University of Akureyri and his role in studying the north or in the affairs of the north? Then I would like to ask: Does the senator believe that this role that I hear is widely accepted in the community? It was reported that it was recognized by the State Department, at least as it is now working, and it has helped me to see that in most places this role and leadership of various institutions in Akureyri is recognized. But is there anything you need? Has the senator seen that? Then I just want to use it here five seconds to stress that Iceland is very important that Iceland is active in this cooperation, in its lead, and someone is assigned to lead that job.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u52	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the second answer and the first answer. I find this very interesting and important thought - provoking and a pleasure to have an opportunity to discuss it. Yes, of course I can see that this could be the case in the university of Akureyri, which has had that special college in Iceland dealing with Arctic rights. That is one of the things we must look forward to, and it is just as important in the context of the world today, where the focus is growing to the north. Undergrounds are potential dangers of conflict, and I can certainly see that agencies in Akureyri can do their part, e.g. the University of Arctic rights, to ease tension, and to be a stage for transnational exchange in the north. You see, in Akureyri there is also a wide range of expertise that is worth sharing in the north. It is not only the Arctic rights or the equality issues, I can also name the environment and what Akureyri has been doing in the North, which is simply exemplary. Regarding whether this is accepted in the community, I have, yes. That's why I haven't quite understood the hesitation of taking the step to make it formally. Of course, there are many people working on Arctic affairs, but my feelings have been more likely that Akureyri has gathered and is therefore the center of the North Sea in Iceland. So I don't think we should hesitate to do this formally and declare it that it will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u53	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Flandish the Elíasdóttir of Elisabeth for this synopsis proposal and history. I'd kind of like to start like a dog. A senator who spoke before me: Can't we all agree that Akureyri is the very center of the Arctic? I wondered what exactly will happen in the council resolution that Akureyri will be established as such a center, but like a whale. A traveler came along with an enormous knowledge of northern affairs in Akureyri, and I have considered Akureyri to be the capital of the North Sea. The opportunities involved in Icelandic society, as well as for Northern and Akureyri, to market themselves as such are enormous. We saw this well at a conference of 2,000 in Hörpa, where people come from all parts of the world to discuss the affairs of the north. The emphasis we have put on our prehuman existence in the Council of Northern England was well expressed, and I recall it within the foreign committee, i.e. to emphasize in particular that in our prehuman existence, we would look to the great knowledge created in the North Land and that our research institutions and university community will enjoy the prehumanity, not only by projects that take place during the prehuman existence but also by the basis for their continuation. I think our opportunity for the Arctic, when it comes to scientific and research partnerships, innovations and new northern and environmental thinking is high. And I can say, a respectable president, that it is really the wealth that I would like to see activated in the context of the Arctic languages, despite the arrival of a fine minister from the United States who spoke a little about the Arctic, like the loading table of all sorts of resources that could be used. My personal opinion is that it makes more sense for all of us to use and activate intelligence. In this context, I think Akureyri plays a major role, the University of Akureyri, the Northports, and the research institutions there. I think this council proposal is good for a bridge. In any case, it encourages a discussion of northern affairs and the role of Akureyri in that regard. I can tell you that when I started my job at the General Assembly and was entering the northern regions in connection with being president of the Western Council, of course, I went to Akureyri and visited the North Pacific and studied that job. That was to my mind the heart of the business of the northern lands, and I think it's a good way to promote and secure it. But I may say that I don't entirely know the purpose of this conquistador as such except that we here are working very hard to discuss this and accept and activate the work that takes place in the north country. It was also interesting on the Arctic ringboard that it would be called in Icelandic, at a conference held in Hörpa this weekend, to introduce the education minister of the scientific secretary of the Arctic, where we have been in special cooperation with Japan. There we can see what the issues of northern and scientific events are, therefore, linked far. I have also mentioned many times that when I have been visited by members of the Parliament from Korea, Japan, and China, I have been asked two things about. It's equal between North and North. There are certainly great opportunities there, and I wish Akureyri all the best of success in sticking further as the center of the Arctic matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u54	Mr. President. I was going to come up here mostly to sign up and support this council plan. paritaprevir Friðbjörg The Fräbjörg of Elíasdóttir's daughter, who in itself could have done so in a short answer. But in order not to make an extraordinary event in spring as a pattern here at the Hall, because she's my fellow groupwoman, I decided to come up in a speech. But then there's been some remarkable things that have happened since I made up my mind. Here, words and questions have come forward, which is all right to go over. Can we all agree that this is just the way it is? Yeah, I'm sure you are. But then there are new foreign ministers and new senators who can agree on something completely different. So it's very important that these things are formalities. In fact, we have always done so. Let us not forget that by the end of the 19th century, it was legally and formally determined, since we were extremely few in a country that was to be held in this land. There should be a university here, here should be General, here to be the Supreme Court, a national theater. All of this was no doubt very sensible and necessary at that time, but it had an effect on Reykjavík, which was 1901 with 8% of the country's population growing up to the year 2015 to become 35% of the country and with the entire capital area, these tiny mini - quilts that were hanging on the outside of the city, Mosfellshelle, Gardry, who changed into town, and Kópavogi, the ratio has reached 75%. There are two reasons why it is perfectly normal and necessary to develop this, that Akureyri be the center of business in Iceland. First, as a nice vehicle entered, there is work and infrastructure that enables the project to function very well to be there. Second, it is important that we get along with the extreme bad and bad population developments in our country. Norwegians define it, e.g. as a major structural disorder if the population of Oslos becomes more than 25% of the whole country and live in a reasonably large country as well. But here we are, to 75%. I reiterate that this was a reasonable arrangement at the time, but it's better for us that we have a counterweight. It's simply the most important thing to do. Third, I could have so much fun that Akureyri is the only town that touches the Arctic line. For some tens of years or hundreds even it will be that way, until that line moves north to the island, for it is not constantly in the same place as we all know. I think there's good reason to decide this is how it's gonna be. Then I'd like to discuss just the Arctic and the Arctic areas that everyone seems to be interested in, especially the world's largest and most powerful states. I always flinch when they talk about our opportunities. I totally understand what you're doing. Haraldsdóttir And I agree with her. But I think we should approach the matter in a humble way rather than always talk about opportunities involving changes that are about to occur as a result of man's overpowering of the planet. I think we should be just sort of outside and defend this area, like what. A senator correctly came in, considering further abuses, as I heard the U.S. representative being stressing. I also get a little scared when I see too many gray suits in the same room. That's exactly what happened at the Arctic Circle. It's expensive in there, so it's empty business to talk about as the former president of Iceland talked about all kinds of people and ordinary people. Not all kinds of people and ordinary people are there. There are simply people who can afford to take time off at work and pay $50,000. Still, this is an important meeting, and he is worthy of honor for upholding this matter. But I warn you that this area will be a game in a race. I was at a very remarkable turnout north of Akureyri two days ago moved by Nording, an art group from North Norge, that covered the Arctic. They had already analyzed the footage published in advertisements, posters, and booklets of the meeting. They figured it out in three. The first groups included landscapes. All the pictures were white because only the snow was shown, as if there were never a summer north of the Arctic Circle. There were machines, machines, all kinds of equipment that could be useful. Then we started to think only, " Is there no people? ' You see, there are a lot of people living there. Yeah, then they found some pictures of people, but they were of the people in the same country uniforms and people in the Inuit uniforms they probably only wear on the festival day. There were no pictures of normal people, not pictures of children, not of anyone going to school. I think maybe we should remember that there are people there, there's a very remarkable dugout, and we have, if we're going to participate, to protect him first and, of course, our planet.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u55	Mr. President. I recommend here for the third time a bill to correct a law change of 40 hours of work week, No. 88/1971, based on paydays. The bill's forwarders, along with me, are why. Councilmen Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, Bergþór Ólason, Birgir Þórarinsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, and Sigurður Páll Jónsson, all members of the Central Party. The bill is very simple - two articles. 1st par. By permission of the president, it reads: ▪ Instead of the words "Counsels " and" June 17 / 15 " at 1 mg. Section 6. The law comes in June 17th and December 1st. Two. says: ▪ This law already comes into effect. As mentioned earlier, the bill has been submitted twice, i.e. of 148th and 149th legislature. The opening of the bill may in some respects be the turning point, that last year 100 years had passed since Iceland became a free and sovereign state by the implementation of the Union fight. It seems to us transporters that that day has not been shown the amount of entertainment they deserve during the past few years or decades. As you know, the law is now on about 40 hours of work week, No. 88/1971, plus the holidays of the National Church, particularly four full vacation days, which are the first day of the summer, Monday of August, i.e. On June 17th, the day of the holiday traders, May 1st, the fight day of the labor, and the festival of the Icelanders. We transporters believe that December 1 had a powerful impact on the nation's history, making it such a turning point that it is appropriate to observe the day in a more solemn way than it is currently, and therefore we suggest that it be a legal holiday. It is amazing in itself that in the midst of misery in 1918, when Kate gauhus, the year when ice lay on shores for some time, the year of the year that pestilence raged in Reykjavík and elsewhere in the country, although, fortunately, she could not make it around the country because of difficult transportation, set in motion, and celebrated the treaty. This is the year when World War I finishes, three weeks before this day comes, and it is truly amazing to think about it and is a great achievement that the finest people there laid their hand on plow, as few as the Icelanders then did, would end up fighting for over half a century because Iceland would become a sovereign nation and Iceland would be a nation among nations. It occurred in itself a bit of a wake-up, and not just a little, on the 100th birthday last year. There were several hundred events on a nationwide program, some strengthened by a special committee appointed at the Council of 2016, and the one listed here was fortunate to be part of it. Much more, however, were events that were motivated by interest in people in many parts of the earth. The participation in the events was tremendous. It may be right and good to use just the waves there formed to establish that day as a legal holiday. I can't complete this year's coverage without referring to the part of the Kingdom News during my birthday, but it moved on both radio and television, countless factors associated with this milestone, in 1918 and the events that were then occurring and evolution in society down to this day, as well as what was set up in the National Museum, etc. It can be claimed in a more reasonable conscience that December 1st was a better turning point than June 17, because the 1918 federal contract holds that 25 years later Iceland can become an independent state, as it turned out to be on June 17, 1944. That day is so remarkable in our national history that we, I think, and the rest of us, are here to remember it. That too should be so that the future generations will know what battle it was that finally gave us independence in its time 75 years ago. It seems like, at least, when you see youths and children on television, they are not completely aware of the reason for this and the other day. It is our fault that we are older and that we have not told them why it is. It is vital that we make the young people aware of the struggle that took place here in the last century, a century and a half, because Iceland would return to its own age, as it was at the beginning when men arrived here. That I hope this is the third time that this case will appear in the treatment of a committee not specified here, I expect it to be either a board of administration and monitoring committee or a General Education and Education Committee. It turns out, and it doesn't matter. The key point is that when the bill goes to the committee, it will receive careful treatment and return to the treatment at the Senate Hall and receive an payment. In itself, I feel that we have a responsibility to do this. In a recent informal survey, 67% reported that December 1 would be a legal holiday so that it could be celebrated more effectively than has been done recently, with little regard to what the University of Iceland has done this day for many years, and lately this day has been dedicated to doctors and doctors, and it is well. Nevertheless, I request that the matter be handled on a committee and after this treatment be resumed into the Senate Hall and that we resolve the matter together. Of the number of members of the council hall, it is not to see that there is an intense interest in the matter, but it has been pointed out in previous talks that it is not a sign that people are not interested in the matter that they do not rush into a pontum and participate in discussions about it and/or sit here in a council hall when a major matter such as this is discussed. Yet, I hope that the general council will observe that this bill is passed and will guide it through the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u56	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson for the bill and his speech. I decided to push up the platform to express myself on this subject, and I can say that I have nothing against December 1st is a public holiday. In fact, vacations generally think quite a good idea when we celebrate big events. We can only benefit from them, both in memory of history, and just as much as it is important for the families of the country to have vacation days where they can get together and take advantage of their daily routines. But the reason I come up is because I'm against the law that the bill is about, i.e. To this day, in 2019, let us have a law called a 40 - hour - a - hour workweek, while we constantly discuss the reduction of the workweek and flexibility. If these laws are read, they are not really birds or fish. With the permission of a president, if I take a little less from 2nd. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: ▪ Each week, there should be no more than 40 day work hours to be done during that work period during the week's busy week. It is permitted to negotiate a shorter work week. On average, 8 hours should be spent each day from Monday to Friday, unless another working time is more suitable for specific reasons, and this is negotiated by stakeholders. The same is true in pars. It is recommended that these songs take on all employees except - and then there are many exceptions, except, except, and unless there is another agreement elsewhere. I've said that in talks before. I think I've been raised twice in the discussion of the laws of these laws, and I might now just, a respectable President, be about to implement what I've proposed and bring a bill that we're going to replace these laws. I think most of the time, if not everything there is, it should be in the security law at work. I think the bill will go to a welfare committee where work markets are discussed. I think it's a lot more natural for us to have the criteria for overwork if a certain number of hours are exceeded. But I think it's only old - fashioned to be today, in the discussion on progress, with some law called a workweek of 40 hours. The December 1st is a holiday, I think it's a good idea. It is a question of whether it is possible to handle legal holidays in other laws. I have no objection to the report and the goal behind the bill, and I have nothing to do with it. But I'd like to encourage you. A welfare committee to consider whether this law column is really needed when it comes to discussing this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u57	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the change in civil handling laws in order to support support support in terms of cost-of-the-art decisions. At first glance, however, it may seem that small things are involved, but they are very important interests. Each year, there are thousands of court cases and the costs of simple personal affairs for a federal court are rarely less than one million and often much higher. The cost of judicial decisions is therefore very important, especially in individuals or small companies. Legal expenses consist of the approval of a lawyer, the cost of publishing policy, the state's legal fees, the travel expenses, the fees to eat, the witnesses, the translators and the Witnesses, and the cost of rewriting, and other costs may be due to legal expenses. For a general rule of exposés, see 1 mg. 130r. A civil law, which says, by permission of the President: ▪ If you lose a case in any case, you will usually be sentenced to pay the bills of your data. Then there are certain exceptions to this rule as found in paragraphs 2 and 4. Same article, i.e. 130. par., and 131. gr. It contains a special rule allowing judges to have one party pay a part of the legal cost of data or to cancel both parties for their own expenses. First cases require complete or partial clearance when a person is working on a case and loses it at all or if there is a significant question about it. The second case allows the death to occur if the losers did not lose or were to be informed of the events in which the outcome took place. However, it is very unusual for such decision to cancel the cost of a court case to be reasoned. However, the lawsuits where the cost of the matter is commonly dropped, without specifically building it on a 3.mg basis. 130r. e.g. Insurance cases, where individuals are trying to obtain approved insurance benefits, lawsuits against governments, and murder. In this case there is a difference between parties, especially those in insurance, where individuals are trying to obtain approved insurance insurance benefits. It provides reasonable reasons on the basis of a situation in which individuals should not be held responsible for the legal cost of big companies. In terms of government lawsuits, there can also be fairness on the basis of misunderstandings. In terms of abuse, it seems that courts tend to cancel the cost of the case when they feel that the comment may have been somehow offensive, even though they are protected from freedom of expression. The media are particularly vulnerable to such speech, and some may have to have a standing fund to survive unfounded lawsuits, where the cost of this matter is commonly dropped. My study of injuries in the Supreme Court in 20003/4/2014 and in the national court of 2006•2014 showed that the number of injuries with a demarcated bill is up to half. It is obviously a great tendency for court officials to cancel the cost of a court, but it is not really ambiguous. When that is logical, the argument is rather low. With this bill, we simply call for courts to support their decisions in decisions like these. The principle is that a person who works in a judicial capacity should not have to pay court expenses. Hence, we are suggesting that the court's will be changed from that principle if he needs to back up that decision, for all of us have the right to support the decision. It is also very common to know that the exact cost of judicial cases is far higher than that of the court. Hence, when the principle is applied without necessarily clear improvement, which is also common, there is a sharp problem with the removal of almost no powder. In a paper with the bill that has been given before, the following article shows how to support the court's logical support of judicial decisions: In 1st. 114. g. the handling of private matters is listed under the terms of the court's decision when removing the subject on the court's side. According to the "F" section of this article, let the logical conclusion on the evidence and on the legal matter be made. The same articles say that the terms of the case should be analysed, however, it is not specifically decided that the exact cost should be reasoned. The decisions made by a judge on the cost of judicial costs are either small or unconvinced, even if there may be considerable financial rights for a painter. In this way, the cost of the person who won the case can be reduced to millions of dollars. Because of the short support for judicial decisions at all costs, the evidence responsible for the decision of the matter must be considered unproved. Then, in particular, judicial decisions are made. When court decisions are passed, decisions about the cost of judicial matters are just as important as those involved in a material aspect of the matter. The cost of judicial cases can often increase the amount of money required for financial interests, and many of these can be seen in the case of perjury. It is important that solid evidence is fundamental when considering principle 1. 130r. A civil law that if a person loses much of his money, he should usually pay the cost of a lawsuit. The article states that it is a clear obligation to pay the measured legal expenses in certain cases. In cases where there is an injury or a case designed to limit or halt the expression of individuals or lawyers, there are not only financial interests but also aspects of the right to free expression. Thus, paintings on such matters are no less important than reprisals or decisions on damages and punishments. Sentenced budgets per fiscal matters, according to 234., 235., or 236. general penalties are often low and may be much lower than the legal expenses. Thus, the real weight of the charge of injury is more likely to depend on how the cost of judicial cases is judged, rather than directly on the outcome of a case. I reviewed that due to the viewpoint of local courts from 2006 in 2006/2014 and the Supreme Court's judgment in 20003/4/2014 on the offense, argument support is rather low or just not present in some half of the cases. As regards the Constitution and the European Convention of Human Rights, the right to the righteous treatment is protected in 1 mg. 70 C. The constitution and 1 mg. Section 6. European Convention, legalized in Iceland by European Convention on Human Rights. For decades, the European Court of Human Rights has developed a judicial program of 6rd degree. European Convention of Human Rights. Among other things, he has explained the article so that it includes the right to get the logical conclusion of courts. Not allowing sufficient access to judicial decisions may involve violations against 1 mg. Section 6. The covenant. The fact that there is a more frequent cutdown on the pores may also affect the freedom of expression protected at 73rd. The Constitution and 1 0... European Convention of Human Rights. In many cases, the media have their jobs because they deal with government and authority, and they know how to be controversial in many cases. The media thus become more frequent instigated with abusive speech. A judge who turns to cancel the rate of the case may provide high costs for those who are often discussing controversial matters. Such judgments may contribute to the cooling of the freedom of expression, but the European Court of Human Rights has repeatedly warned that projects that may contribute to such an effect, especially when journalists are involved, may violate 1 mg. 10th par. European Convention of Human Rights. The public declaration of rights and lawsuits is a principle in civil rights. To make the part of a judicial hearing that has to do with the cost of substantial and more thorough support for that principle. Transporters also estimate that this is in accordance with the 70th requirement. The constitution and regulations of Article 6. The European Convention on the Rights of the Righteous and Official Treatments, but the basis and logical support of judicial decisions is an essential part of the rightfulness of 1 mg. Section 6. A covenant is given. The scheme of this bill is, uh... to get the rational support that is behind the practice of canceling the lawsuits and other matters that I listed here, a respected president, and making sure that it does not take place in a court order that can adversely affect the freedom of expression or of other individual rights, and the decisions about the cost of the matter will be far more thorough criticism than before, and the possible review of higher standards. By bill this, the change is suggested that when a judge violates the principle of 1 mg. 130r. the management of personal matters should be specifically supported. By means of the approved bill, you can promote increased rightfulness, increased transparency, and better identification of current legal practices. The bill's forwarders are also the ones here. The members of Bjöl Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, Halldóra Mogensen, the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, Jón Þór Ólafsson, and Smári Mccarthy. I also suggest that the bill go to what? General and educational committee for treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u58	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the presentation of this bill, which is now submitted for the third time, as I please. Mostly, I'd like to ask why. A senator explains why a certain group of subjects are viewed specifically. Why are the costs of the court at 2 and 4 mg? 130r. is there a particular basis for reasoning? Is it not true that the decision to make a court order should be logical - a point? I know that many lawyers have resorted to the counsel to request special support from a judge when a time report is issued by a judge and they have adopted it, especially when much depends on the time report is taken, especially asking for support. But I have not seen that the results have been very effective. It is not only in the case of sexual injury or in such cases that the cost of judicial matters is canceled but, for example, the case. the cost of justice almost always fell into custody. This does not mean that the cost of judicial cases is determined in such cases. And also in the case of e.g. An application case in which a judge makes a decision to cut down much of the legal cost of a person's ability to pay, and therefore he receives abductment from the state, both for the offense and for the defence, and is living at high costs, would not the attorney willingly work for the job because the judge has made his own decision as to how much work might have been done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this question. It's good. So I'm just explaining the history of the matter, it's particularly about freedom of expression, and it's in context of another case involving appeal rights when it comes to the offense. The point was made in the context of trying to balance the situation between the applicant and the carer in the case of the injury, especially the media. This was set up to solve a particular problem that exists. The media is being led by a comment that may not even hold a view to be the course to follow. However, they would lose enormous sums of money on having to defend a court case because they are sentenced to pay court expenses, even though they may have won the case in court. The point is presented in this context, but it covers quite a few more incidents than the offenses, as I entered my transmission address, because of the general rule found in 1st. 130. Er, I don't think it's necessarily necessary to argue whether or not to follow. If the general rule is that a loser should pay court expenses, I don't feel that there's any particular need to argue with that, i.e. that the principle be applied. However, there is a variation to the principle found in these two principles, and as a result, we specifically apply them, 2 and 4. mg, that this should be particularly logical. On the other hand, I have every reason to consider whether this is the right thing to do. A senator would want to be more comfortable with these matters. So I suggest that you do. The General and Education Committee specifically considered whether all of these issues can be handled in the treatment of the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u60	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. It's not only logical support for who is paying the legal expenses but also for the money I am discussing. A recent example is that of the Court's court, which has been appointed this weekend, in which it is actually given to a local judge who decides at a lower court level to cut much of the legal fee or the legal fee on that matter. This was the case in the premeditation case against the Child Welfare Committee. In effect, the judge went to the lawyer for the majority of this case. Of course, it is one of the most important interests of a parent, i.e. to keep custody of his child, but the judge evidently decides early on that it was an unfounded lawsuit and that the lawyer should carry the expense of his own efforts not to stop that lawsuit. There you begin to ponder the right to seek justice from court, which is, of course, among the fundamental rights of people. That is why I ask the senator whether it would be more right to have just clear regulations that a judge would argue the exact cost of a ruling, whether it is evidence for support for who to pay or what money, because the right to go to the courts is severely impaired if you are living with a huge cost of seeking justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u61	A respectable president. I think I have my short answer. I just think it's a really good idea, and I suggest it for now. A top-of-the-art Board of Education whether it's a way to look into this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u62	A respectable president. Then the fifth priority for the people of Stockholm is at this fall council. In the past, we have recommended priorities such as a minimum increase of $350,000, tax and inaccessible, which is on a pair with over half a million dollars of money as compared to today's situation. Then we're talking about pay. Then we're talking about a minimum improvement of 300,000 dollars, tax and inaccessible, in the social security system. All our endeavors are aimed at trying to uproot those whose feet are nested, hardly having salt in their porridge, and trying to increase their capacity for living. Everything we've been doing, as in this case, costs a lot of money, e.g. to increase the minimum wage to 350,000, tax and inaccessible. This is no less than 38 billion dollars. A year's basis for making these priorities cost money, that's clear. That's why I'm now measuring up for this proposal to come along, to show how we can with certain corrections and adjustments improve our excellent systems, which I may now feel are not always so good, and we often place them within the room because people's group members really feel that the priorities of money are very important and not necessarily contribute to putting the people in first place. I'm with me at this council-sense proposal, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson. It's about payment on deposit in a pension fund. It involves the conclusion of the General Assembly to commit financial and economic ministers to provide a legal bill for the end of 2020 that local tax payment will be carried out in the payment of a pension fund, not on the current payment of pension savings. Let us see that when the pension system was set up at that time, 1969 reminds me, that was the way it was. It was set up as a post payment for deposit. We want to be sure that the money that the change will bring to the State's funds will be spent in the interests of increased well - being. Everything we're doing is trying to change the setting and priorities for the people first. That's the primary objective and policy of Flock's people. I'd like to allow myself to doubt it, a respectable president, that anyone has missed it. I'm going to read a report, with the permission of a president: In recent years, more than 5,000 billion dollars have been spent on pensions. has information on Iceland's Web site. Insecures in your insurance fund, there are more than 200 billion dollars. every year. In the year 2000, Pensions of Pension Costs were mined about 80% of the gross domestic product, but in 2017 the ratio was 157% according to the economics of pensions displayed on the Lands Association of Pension, Pension. There is concern about how much of the pension is involved in a Icelandic business life. Their governments are representatives of unions and trades, which, in turn, appoint executives to represent the funds of companies involved themselves. Thus, the link between the owners of the budget (her own treasuremate) and those who care for the financial resources of pensions is little or no. The result is that a large proportion of Icelandic enterprises are owned by inactive persons who operate according to a legal requirement of fruitage rather than by funds. In recent years, the pension fund has been criticized for investing in risky companies, paying super-paying executives, and supporting business as sources of dismay. Paying taxes on payment in a pension fund can help to prevent the growth of the pension fund from being abnormally large in terms of the size of the economy. There is a lack of money to address the needs of the Icelandic welfare system. The health system is on foot, the improvements in social security are inadequate, and the gap between the rich and the poor is growing each year. Therefore, it is necessary to increase the income and use it in behalf of the people. As the people's party says, "The people first." Residual taxation in a pension fund instead of payment is a painless way to make large profits in the state's funds, enabling it to strengthen the welfare system without compromising public resources. In accordance with local regulations, deposit in the Pension Fund and reimbursement of employers are not taxed. Instead, pension funds pay the tax paid to pensioners. Thus, the taxation of the funds making up the stock of pension money is postponed until it comes to their payment. Biofuel growth is not safe and has been compared to the significant loss of pensions. I'm not going to tell any news here. Everybody knows this. There has even been a situation where one night a pensioner's rights have been wiped out, perhaps 30% in one night. I especially remember a sailor's Pension Fund back then, which is now valid. It was amazing. They had already seen what they had collected and earned, but since the funds were not successful, they were authorized to do so. You just received a letter: You see, the best pensioner, your rights were reduced overnight by 30%. I haven't had a dive in it, but I don't think it's a good thing. That's what I have to say. I don't think there's a law that once you've earned the right thing and are in good faith that that that's exactly what you have, it's just that you have it. But it doesn't matter. Let's get back to the motion. This body of Congress suggests that the state's budget initially collects the taxes and can therefore take care of them on its own grounds instead of trusting in pension funds to increase the sum of the money. In accordance with the nature of the case, the money flows into the pension fund through the initial payment. At the same time, when savings are released, taxes are not paid, so the change does not result in a relative loss of the fruitage of pensions. Based on contributions from pension fund in 2018 and 36% of taxes, a pay on deposit would yield no less than 72 billion dollars. every year. Thus, the agreement would give the nation a unique opportunity to make improvement. Because there is a need for more investment in the welfare of the country, it is urgent that the government uses increased income because of local payment in behalf of most of the people who need help. Health management needs to be intensified and the number of nursing staff should be increased. Efforts are needed to facilitate the selection of microbubbles. As a result, more people would get back into a job market and return additional taxes. The government needs to reduce the tax burden of low-payers and pensioners and their share of provisions. That's exactly what the crowd's fighting for. That is exactly what all our priorities are about. This would reduce the likelihood that people would have to finance their daily spending with debt and become trapped in the advanced, well - stocked poverty trap. The basic premise of this proposal is that all those who are concerned with raising the money of the government that may be caused by the Congress resolution, i.e. If a body of Congress sees the same opportunity to care for the welfare of its citizens as the people do, it will be used in behalf of the people. A respectable president. I've spoken to a lot of seniors. Some may even feel fearful and say, " What does this mean? ' Are we bilingual? How is my growth on this budget while it's in the pension fund? I'll make less of them. But as I pointed out earlier, it's not because you don't really pay cash on payment. In deposit, you make 100% personality discounts and something like that. This is all against each other. But the fact is, I don't know one person I've talked to, and now they're pretty many, who hasn't said he'd rather try to step out of the dereliction system by paying a cash payment right away at the deposit in the pension fund, perhaps in a much better position to do it then than when we're old. Let's talk about how we lost, for example. 600 billion in the collapse, how we have been making investments, quite extraordinary venture investments. We're even using our pension fund in a hotel. We're using them for airlines. We've been using them in a rag camp in London. WOW. I could count for a long time, but the fact is that it is not a reason to throw down when individuals themselves, those who have the money, are willing to keep it that way, to get rid of the local payment but to use it in the combination with the idea that we let the money flow to the people and deal with the endless, eternal impairments, which some would even consider as a pure estate and a fraction of 72. Constitutions. We are legalized to pay for a pension fund, and we are led to believe that it is to build up our safety in later years. What, then, does that mean? What safety? In fact, everyone understood that this should be an additional system that already exists, the social security system. When it comes to saying that you should let those who are billionaires or who have millions of people here and that way make full use of the social security system and get everything out of it, it's just not like that. The fact is not that. This is a complete failure in the discussion because it is for the sole purpose that millions of people who have come over a month or a huge income can start making use of the social security system. But those who have only 150,000. In acquired pension rights, why are they so poor in the social security system and have gone under the poverty line? Why? Because we have an unfair system that we must change. That's exactly what we're suggesting right here and now. My associate at the council-sense proposal is Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson. It shows just how interested we are in putting people in first place and changing the small priority of money that the State takes to himself hidden and clearly and sometimes, as in this case, when we are old and would like to avoid paying taxes. In this case, we would like to have this done when we are young and paying our taxes. The local pay will go to our common fund. We can start walking around on these impairments. We can start running low-level tax and poorer than poverty limits. Isn't that the minimum? Is not absolute minimum to at least the limits of progress that come from the Ministry of Health on minimal progress are respected by ourselves, the lawgiver of the country? Is it not minimal to show that we want to draw minimal progress over those limits? I say yes, I can't see anything any more reasonable in the situation. It's not because I don't see it that way. I just see it clearly. Finally, I refer to the synopsis proposal - not to the point of it. The Economic and Business Committee, the Honorable President?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u63	A little problem with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u64	I've got a little problem. I'm always lost in there. I trust a president to find out if this is going to the right place.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u65	A respectable president. We're discussing the Congress hearing for the people's local payment on deposit in a pension fund. It is not that such a course requires more than simply a need. It's simple to go on a little trip and review what happened to the bank crash. What happened to the large contribution of the pension fund? How much lost tax dollars are we talking about today? Likely, somewhere in the world between 500 and 1,000 billion people have just been lost on the market. We do well to ask ourselves, " Why is it permitted to bring taxes to thousands of pensioners on the market to carry them? ' As we know, we have far too many pensions. Way too big a building that costs us tens of millions of dollars a year. It's a super-price because they have so much responsibility. But responsibility quickly disappears and does not exist when things are lost. We must tax the pension money on payment and use it at once in the welfare system to get the poor out of not just the poor but in a very poor way and to meet 10,000 older citizens who, as we have seen, live in poverty. We know that at the time, minimum wages and microenergy pensions were inexplicable. It was at the start of a standard payment in 1988. Today, there's a hell of a difference. Today, micromasks have 70,000Ks. less per month than underpayers. In this context, it is strange which is the most relevant factor. Who are the ones who are the most affected and who will benefit most if we make a minimum payment of 300,000 dollars? so everyone gets 300,000 bucks, taxes and nothing? There are women. It's simply because they've paid the least in a pension fund. It tells us that there is something really wrong with a system that can set the example so that the person paid in his pension fund of hard work, low - paying work, for many years, and every single dollar he is supposed to earn in this system is removed by delinquency. There must be a record of over 50,000 60,000. to earn some part of their pension funds. It's kind of just a property tape. It tells itself about those who survive today from this, which is more than a part disability, 70%, at a rate of 215,000. paid, that these individuals would be seriously remembered if they went today for 300,000 bucks. We're talking about 85,000 bucks. in a month that is, in effect, close to the number that has been pointed out to be the salaries and low-payers after the next raise of 86,000. If we could do this without disrupting anything else in the system, that would be great. It has begun to appear in the pension system, and is the thing that I fear most, that it is becoming a loss. We can see this in companies who invest in construction projects. We've seen one company that pension funds were investing in for hundreds of millions and it looks like it's all gone. When you can move down billions of dollars on one board to zero, when you hear those numbers, when you hear that only the hotel building right next to the Council has already received 4 billion from a pension fund into its structure, you start to ask yourself, " How safe is this investment? ' I'm afraid she's not very safe. But there is something else about this, as we always forget. It is these 5,000 billion, and it probably has become more than that of today's pension system. There are nearly 2,000 billion tax revenues being loaded into the market. It's kind of strange, considering that the pension fund has almost every company in the country and that a lot of it. You also ask yourself, " How many of these pensions, near 27 or 28, are selling their assets to one another? ' You can't invest indefinitely in companies in Iceland. True, money has begun to flow out. But it claims itself that in such a small economy, it would be much better for the system to get these taxes, get these 70 billion now. I'd say there's something else in it too. There would have to be some of these more than 2,000 billion taxes that are already in the plant system but that would be much better kept in the health system, the welfare system in Iceland today. It is a fact, and it is not clear that when individuals who are supposed to live at $300,000 will live. In a month we complain that they do not have food, medicine, or other necessities, how, on earth, we will allow ourselves to tell people who live on the rights of more than 200,000 dollars. and many with less faith that it can and must continue trying to reach out for that hungerer? It tells itself that it can't be done. We are shamed by the fact that we are allowed to treat people this way. Especially in that case when we're talking about sick people who can't defend themselves and older citizens who've been working all their time, paying their pension money, and having these money, but who are taken from them, not to use them to pay for themselves so they can have it, but they just seem to disappear into the pits. Somehow, those who have this money with a bad taste in their mouth are left behind and not getting it. People who have worked low - paying jobs all their life may be thinking about retirement and asking: " What do I get out of retirement? It's going to be terrified because it realizes that pensions don't come back. They're taxing and cutting. It ends with taxation and impairment leading a large group to poverty. That's why we want to change, and that's why we're making this suggestion, so that we can get things done so that no one needs to live in very poor ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-14-17.u66	Mr. President. Before today's assembly meeting, I made a trip into the Senate Hall to see if this wonderful hall of ours could be used to demonstrate an extreme weather conditions due to the warming of the climate. I showed up with the Inch section and found that these two farms here can be used to that. They are 95 inches [95 cm] from the floor, but that is the quantity of precipitation that fell on those areas in Japan, where the hurricane's influence was most this weekend. Ninety-five inches [95 cm] of rain in 24 hours. When we're sitting in our seats, why? Senators, we can watch this line and think, " How will it be to see such a diamond come in one day? ' Because we're talking, not about some badass, when climate experts talk about an increase in rain in hurricanes, but about an astrogenic amount of precipitation, which has a tremendous effect. The incidence of these hurricanes is increasing as a result of a disaster, and we need to respond. I recommend a bill that responds to this condition. It requires that applications for research and processing and the search for oil and gas in the Icelandic region are not removed unless victory has been achieved in climate matters. I'll be the first to admit, Mr. President, that the bill takes on a very limited part of the climate problem, but it's also extremely simple. Its agreement would clearly show that we here in Iceland would be ready to take the action required in this struggle. I'm not going to repeat the discussion by reading up the entire report, but I suggest that interested ones take a look at it. There's an oil search history at Iceland. The law under which the bill takes root back two decades into the past when the Allied Council agreed in 1997 to agree on the finding of oil in Iceland, which was then produced in 2001 the laws we deal with as regards the search, research, and processing of carbohydrates. Then, in 2011, it was waiting for the Power Institute to advertise for applications as a result of a special discharge to the research and processing of carbohydrates in the Dragon area called, far north of the country. The Agency subsequently issued three special releases for such studies in 2013 and 2014, and they did research for the next few years, but after not having had enough work to do in the course of 2015◯2018. So, there is currently no activity going on here on a land that this bill would touch. Therefore, now is the time to insert the stopper. For reasons of an oil search at Icelanders, there may not be much to say, but perhaps there is special reason to point out the tremendous risk of oil in the area north of Iceland. Because of weather conditions there, and distances from assistance, if anything, and how much risk and cost would come from all accidents that would be involved in such activity in that area. The more expensive events in this business are the more known mankind knows, e.g. estimated to have cost some 7,000 billion dollars in 2010 to the Deepwater Horizon rig in the Gulf of Mexico. That's equal, if I recall correctly, the state's seven-fold budget. If such a cost fell on the government, it would be more than that. Not to be overlooked is the fact that in recent years opposition to oil production has increased worldwide. It might be said that all the countries in the world are officially agreed that oil and gas production are on the way, and therefore there would be a problem with the intention of starting new territories in that environment. In the international field, the World Bank has also announced that he no longer grants loans for the search and processing of fossil fuels and gives evidence that he intends to support the purpose of the Paris Treaty. The oil and gas that are known to lie in the earth are unmoved and unburned. Otherwise, it's all a disaster. Several countries have taken positive steps this way. They are listed in the report, but I'm particularly going to point to New Zealand, which has probably been one of the longest. There were laws that went into effect for the right year, forbidding any search for oil under the bottom of the sea around New Zealand. Similarly, the French Parliament adopted a ban that may be more important in this regard, not just production in France but in every French territory. There are also other countries. The procedure suggested in the bill text is that applications will not be canceled unless the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere has been measured below 350 ppm on average each of the 12 months preceding. This can now be explained a little, perhaps the most technical part of this bill. The concentration of carbon dioxide is constantly measured since 1958 when measurements began in the Hawaii Islands, and it is now known for the U.S. marine and meteorological Institute, NOAA, but is holding about 100 sites around the world, including the Great Head. The average of these measurements is what is meant by the average amount of carbon dioxide accumulated in the atmosphere. This is also the corresponding number for e.g. United Nations climate agreement. This is considered to be a fairly standardised measurement of these substances. The figure of 350 ppm comes from one of the pioneers of climate science, James Hansen, who proposed 30 years ago, in 1988, at the U.S. Congress that 350 ppm would be the limits that would have to be met in order to restore the global energy balance and restore climate that may be considered normal. In comparison, this value has been estimated to have been 280 before the industrial revolution and for the last four, five years it has not been measured below 400. Since we don't have a clear view here, Mr. President, it's very easy to describe the plot here. It's like this. There is a constant increase in carbon dioxide concentration in the atmosphere from the beginning of measurement, and there is no stopping it. Then there is the question of the need and motive of this bill. Well, the President might ask me, yes, but Andrés, since we're not looking for oil anywhere around Iceland and we don't expect it to happen, why do we have to make a special law that we're not going to do it? Then I'd like to mention three of our neighbors here in the North Atlantic who give us absolutely reason to put into law what we think today may be, but I'm sure, in a predictable future, would not be as sure. First, I'd like to name the United States. During the weekend, the Ringboard of the North East was held in Hörp, where the U.S. Energy Minister, Rick Perry, had a very unusual tone as he began talking about the opportunities of ruined gas resources that lie beneath the Arctic area like the surface of resources that could be used to benefit people in the north. This is naturally fine, in harmony with the U.S. President's declaration from the spring of 2017, when he announced that the United States would withdraw from the Paris Convention. At the same time, the U.S. Department of Energy represented a seminar on the Northern Ringboard, which presented the technical challenges of searching for oil in the north. I would say, Mr. President, that the only technical challenge lies in not getting people to think about drilling for oil or gas in the north. One of our neighbors who are right to mention is Norway. Norway is an interesting country in this context. The Norwegian government has long had very ambitious plans for energy exchange and ways to succeed in climate change at home, but Norway is one of the world's largest producers of oil and gas. All right, it's an old-time inheritance, but it's not. Just now during the last week, the Norwegians began their operations in the Johan Sverdrup region of the North Sea, which will increase the production of oil by a third of the Norwegians. Its production is scheduled for the year 2050 according to the Norwegian plan. When the Johan Sverap area is fully manufactured, it will produce 660,000 oil buckets a day. That may not tell us much that does not have a sense of how large the oil plate is. But I was trying to make a difference. This is equivalent to Mr. President, that the Norwegians produced so much oil that she would fill our beautiful house every hour until 2050, every hour of every day. These are crazy numbers. Similarly, the Norwegian plan for a new oil and gas hunt in the Barent Sea is insane, which is now thoroughly in the north. So I'd like to mention our neighbors in Ireland, but I listened when I heard the announcement of Prime Ministers, Ireland, Leo Varadkar, at the UN General Assembly in the past month, saying that he had recommended the advice of his climate Council suggested that the Irish stop looking for oil. This came as a surprise to me because the same Leo Varadkar has been standing in the way of a matter of Congress reported here on this report, a bill that is almost in agreement with the bill we're discussing here. Varadkar's government has used all the devices she's thought of to hold the case on a committee, to keep it quiet, and to delay it from getting paid for the council because the government is afraid that the council would simply agree with the case, in which it seems quite clear that there is more to it. But why was Leo Varadkar talking like that in New York at the General Assembly? Yes, he added that the Irish would continue to search for the gas and win the gas he calls, by permission of a president, ◯ translocation fuel. What should we call it? Fuel to get us to the green economy. It so happens that there is no probability or near any trace of oil found on the Irish land base, where gas is found. So what the prime minister of Ireland did in New York was what should now be avoided in politics, something quite empty. Since we and the world's countries are on the common path of reducing the use of fossil fuels, we need not only to use various means but also to face the crisis that confronts us in climate. One of the measures organized by the Friday strike workers here in the East proposed as part of a declaration of a climate crisis was that no further authorization for oil search in the Icelandic region was given. This group often speaks of the need for action right away. Here's a bill that offers one of those operations, and the immediate procedure doesn't have to be any further than that, so we'll take care of it. Workaholics, she directs its street through the commission work, and we accept it as a law from the Council. We will thus have the privilege of not becoming kings first to take this step but among the first. This would be a responsible situation that would enable us to live up to the name of a future climate state and would also give us a stronger position when we spoke to our friends, the oil addicts, whether they are from the United States, Norway, Ireland, or wherever they are from and say, "No oil and gas? " Let's do it. We did.
