ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u1	Mr. President. I'd like for a reason we're going to the 3rd. and a vote can help. paritaprevir Sæland hareland supports the situation of the coastal fishing industry. She was not at the meeting of the committee when we took the matter out, and it failed to put her name in there, but she had requested it. I wish that, although only at the Generals' Web site, Inga Sæland will be able to support this case, the former vice president of the trade committee, and now the audience. This was my business up here, and I trust that we will remain united in this case as yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u2	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 41/2007, of the surgeon and public health, and of the law No. 74/1997 of the patient's rights. The bill suggests changes in the process of clarifying the source of complaint to the medical surgeon's office, clarifying treatment on such matters, and making it simpler to accept the legal role of the surgeon's office. The bill was composed by a group of members appointed to consider the laws of surgeons and public health regarding special health complaints and suggestions on how to explain these sources. The surgeon general plays an important role in the monitoring of health care and health care professionals, and the office is given broad sources and responsibilities in the laws on surgeons and public health in order to perform this role. The public complaint on health care is being helped. As stated in the bill of the current law, the surgeon's obligation to perform the complaint on the health care of a health care provider is a part of his surveillance role. Thus, according to II, complaints may be a cause for surgeons to apply their authority. and III. the section of the law, e.g. by directing guidelines for management improvements and then stopping business if it is not recommended. In III. This section discusses the monitoring of healthcare professionals and provides the national surgeon with permission in certain cases to use certain measures, such as reminder or loss of authorization, in order to ensure that health care meets the requirements for quality and safety established by the surgeon at any given time. A respectable president. The requested bill suggests changes to Article 12. The law, but it's about permission to complain to the surgeon for health care. In the current law of Article 12. further published on the duty of surgeons to care for the public complaints according to Article 4. The law. The directive has been considered unclear, difficult to perform, and not effective to achieve its objectives of promoting quality and security improvements. It has been reported that many times and times the complaint warrant is used as a means to get a surgeon to resolve mistakes and/or neglect within medical care before making a decision on a court case. A surgeon's view, therefore, has not served as a primary role in the management of health care and health care professionals. It is not reasonable to conclude that this is the case with an institution, such as a surgeon, that the role of an office by law is a failure. It was strongly decided by the task force that treatment of complaints at the surgeon's office was not a sign of the patient's personal interests but of the public interest. Therefore, the provision of a surgeon's office in the matter of complaint would be contrary to such issues and not to the work done by an observational surgeon. The management of health-care complaints in the Agency has a comprehensive purpose and would primarily be in the interests of quality development and overall health safety. Code 12. The law has also blurred the authority of close caregivers to complain about the services of a deceased patient. Is it suggested in this bill that the law specifically states that the person in the patient's case is permitted to complain on the basis of Article 12. The law. A respectable president. This bill presents a change to Article 12. the law of the surgeon and the public health that aims to simplify and explain the procedure of a complaint by a surgeon in the field of complaint. When the bill is intended to make it easier for the office to identify any complaints requiring action on the part of the office to ensure the safety and quality of health care. The bill puts special emphasis on the purpose and role of the surgeon general's office as a surveillance center and on the changes to 12. it is presented here as a guide. In 1st. The bill under discussion is suggested to be 1st. The Mosaic Law, however, remains physically unchanged, yet its purpose is refined and specifically stated. The article shows that the surgeon general's complaints and health - care business are aimed at ensuring the quality and safety of the service. So, this is a timed and repeated here in 1st. 1st par. The bill. It is stated that the surgeon directs those who consult him in matters of health care. Is this to emphasize the role of the surgeon general's office in identifying the complaints and the information received and counseling of individuals in the field of practice that they are more relevant to the Agency. 2nd and 3rd. The article is suggested to remove any doubts about who are permitted to complain to a surgeon for health care. Of course, these are both patients and close contacts of dead patients, such as their spouse, parent, or descendant. It is evident that other members, e.g. Depending on 2 mg, institutions or individuals may still be present. Send a message to the surgeon for information or comments on health care. A surgeon will analyze these matters and determine if there is any basis for further examination. If a surgeon assesses matters so that further action is needed to ensure the quality and safety of health care services, such matters will take place on chapters 13 and 7. The law wouldn't be treated on the basis of Article 12. The law, the one that's being discussed here. Four. Its bill is about formality issues related to complaint, i.e. that it should be written, and that its cause should be revealed in it. You will also find timeouts to complain, but it is suggested that the deadline of existing law be shortened and that complaint needs to occur within five years of the reported incident. However, if specific reasons for complaint are given, the surgeon may be allowed to complain for the treatment of a complaint. It has been a ten - year - long period of time, though too long, primarily because it may be difficult to study subjects that have long since passed. Also, this deadline is considerably longer than in other parts of the North, where the delay is usually either two years or five years. 5 mg. considers the treatment of complaint within the office of a surgeon, but it is suggested that a surgeon discuss all complaints and conclude the matter by informing the complaint on the outcome. The surgeon will consider whether to inform the person being complained or to use Article II. or III. The section of the law to ensure the quality and safety of the service. Six. it is noted that the patient's equipment or other facilities within the organisation or clinic should be directed to the relevant organisation. In a material way, the law is in harmony with the regulations set out in paragraph 28. patient rights, No. 74/1997, but there is a small adjustment in this provision to ensure compliance. A respectable president. I have now explained the basics of this bill. The impact of the bill is primarily that the surgeon's office is enabled to carry out its surveillance role in the treatment of complaints in a more progressive way. Case management is simplified with the bill, and factors that have caused uncertainty in interpretation are further explained. Therefore, there is hope, if the bill is legal, that complaint treatment will become more efficient and simpler. Furthermore, there will be an increase in the rate of words during the conversion. So I'll allow myself to suggest that the bill be after the 1st. Refer to the welfare committee and to the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u3	President. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to planned adjustment of 3 mg. Section 12. law about surgeons and public health. By permission of the president, it says: Because of alleged neglect and failure to provide health care, it is advisable to direct a formal complaint to a surgeon. Then, at the same time, users of health care services are allowed to make formal complaint to the surgeon in favor of health care professionals. This paragraph is to be taken out of the law, and the surgeon's duty to address such complaints and phrases will be replaced by a surgeon. Those of us who have learned legal laws will quickly see that when the word of the law comes out of the law, the rights of user systems will be reduced, where their right to demand someone from the government will disappear. In addition, the report on this change in the bill says that the experience of the paragraph in which I quoted the source of the complaint is, by permission of the president, a even as a tool to get a surgeon to decide error and/or neglect within the medical service before making a decision on the court of the court. I simply ask: Isn't this use of the rights of patients normal?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u4	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. The cause of this bill can be said to be that although there has been a certain uncertainty in these cases, it has taken too much time, it has been too heavy, and it has not served the main goals, i.e. the general health and safety targets. Whatever it is. A senator here points to what is selective and related, etc. I have to refer to the subject's law. The welfare committee especially deals with this factor, and I think there is good reason. Of course, especially attention should be paid when discussing rights. What we're doing with this bill, and here we're talking about the best-identified people who have worked under these laws, is strengthening and highlighting the role of the office in identifying and guiding individuals if they are more relevant to the Agency, i.e. look better, as it were, and discern better than has now been able to make the person's complaint to be received or to which party is most relevant. This is the unanimous proposal of this committee, as it is shown in a paper with the bill going this way. The next step is actually a narrative process and then a convocation treatment, which will likely address the current issues. There's a senator here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u5	President. Thank you very much. Minister for these clear answers. Then I wanted to ask you about a planned change of pars. in the Act on the Rights of the Patients, where these rights are also taken out to direct complaint to the surgeon and can be submitted to the institution or clinic at any time. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: How is it expected that agencies or clinics will take such indications or comment? Is there some kind of career for such workers to stop them from doing what to do with the complaints? And how should patients make these comments, and who is responsible for following them in view of the patient's rights?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u6	A respectable president. I thank you again for the questions. About the process, so I'll start with the second question. A candidate who is expected to wake up at a local agency where a comment or complaint takes place, then the institutions have certain processes involved in documenting and keeping track of incidents. Of course, these processes vary depending on the institution or party or the health care provider. But in this context, I would also like to refer to the national surgeon's quality plan, where each institution is expected to set standards and deliver them to the surgeon's office, so that there is really no healthcare provider available from maintaining statistics for the safety and quality of the service. It's in the induction process and I expect this process to become part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u7	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for an excellent review of this bill to change two laws, a case that is both needed and important. I wanted this 1st. to get a few things clear up a little bit. V.E.G. This five - year arrangement has already been clearly explained by a minister. Another thing I'd just like to walk is that a surgeon values incidents to see if there's any reason to inform the person who's been complained. I ask, in some cases, do I know how to counteract a legal requirement in a new personal protection? I wanted to hear the highest perspective. Minister of it. Second, I'd like to hear a little bit more about the origin of these changes and those laws. A group of workers who made these changes are appointed as members of the Ministry, as well as from the Land Hospital and the surgeon's office. At some point there was an idea that a representative of the user, patient organization, or some related stakeholder could be placed at the table? Third, the bill aims to sharpen the role of the office as a monitoring agency, to improve the quality of projects and safety in health care and to monitor staff. Of course, patients are still authorized to seek help, individuals. But what about institutions that even hear directly under the Ministry? Minister? Won't it be necessary to consider the infrastructure or infrastructure and monitoring system in this regard? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's questions. First of all, ask me why. A senator about this time. Of course, it is always fragile when such procrastination is impaired in some way. Because of this, it is done in a very careful manner here. As noted earlier, the time interval in the North has been lower than the longest in the United States, either five years or two years, than here 10 years. It is suggested that this step be taken that a complaint for five years is allowed, but if specifically indicated, it is not forbidden to take the matter into account for a material discussion. There's a target used there. About a question why. I'm not worried about that, at least. not in the first pass. Hv. A senator also asked about the access of the users to this view and the proposal under consideration. The light in this subject is views related to the clarity and central task of a land surgeon's office that focuses on the quality and safety of health care in general. So here we are sharpening the situation considerably. I assume that in the open history process of the Committee and the Generals, they can make comments from the parties. A senator mentions. It is natural for all to benefit from processes that are more transparent and accessible. Hv. A senator then asks about the infrastructure that exists in the institutions. It is true that many people there need to do better. But this is part of the introduction of the quality plan of a surgeon's office. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u9	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for clear answers. We know that consumers, users of health care, are individuals who are increasingly aware of their rights. In view of this, the number of comments, the complaints, the indications, may be increased. It has to be said, at any rate, that the way from the doctor to the lawyer always seems to be shorter. Even law firms in Iceland have found application tools in this area. What does a minister see? Will these changes in the law lead to some changes in view of this? Will a minister take advantage of this reform procedure to become something similar, e.g. what we know in Sweden? There, the department arranges to negotiate benefits on the grounds of accidents instead of being directly involved with the lawyer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u10	A respectable president. Of course, there are two sides. On the one hand, it is important and desirable for the public to be aware of their own rights to all the systems we have here in the combination, whether it is health service or school or what it is. However, the more open, accessible, and daily contact with the public with the field ministry is expected to include more communication and complaints, not all of it, but to improve the quality of the ministry. I believe this adjustment proposed to these laws is just to help users to be able to be more effective in building up in ensuring the quality and security of the service, whatever it is that gives it at any given time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u11	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of advance history, and rejoice that this matter has been brought to pass. I think it's a good deal and it's good to sharpen roles in the way the bill does. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to two things on the bill. First, it is in a manner similar to that of a man. paritaprevir Brjánsson came in with the deadline, whether it had been discussed in the Ministry, or with the bill's contract, whether to go to shortening the deadline and perhaps go down to seven years or something like that in this step. And yet, if, and here, anyone who does not know, the same time -- their value is on other health - care complaints to form the complaints that go directly to the institutions, whether they have the same deadlines, or whether they are not even written on the law in particular. As noted above, this bill does not necessarily be expected to make any further comments about health care will be given to a surgeon. That's not the point. However, it may have to be noted that the same everyday value of complaints that do not go there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u12	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the question. It is the right thing to say in that tone. A senator beats, when we're here to shorten this delay, it's really that direct purpose too, from the point of how difficult it can be to dig up some incident long behind, that clear and rich conversation exists between the users and hosts of the service, that it is part of the quality approach of the whole health service that a clear way for the users to communicate without it being a very difficult system. However, the point is true. The senator's not saying that it is everywhere in the system, where we are talking about insurance and the like or the heavier parts of the system, that it should shorten every time in the same way. We are talking about this matter of Congress, which directly has the defined purpose of improving the quality and safety of the ministry. This is a step toward it. Hv. A senator also asks: " Am I going to go a little slower? ' It's like I traced my answer to the other side. paritaprevir Yes, every time a decision is made to do so, it is a question of Guðjón's Brjánsson. Like what? A senator knows that we often look around in the country. Because if I use wording, go your way. A senator may be able to illustrate the point that if more than the five years have passed, it will depend on a surgeon's judgment at any given time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u13	Madam President. When I saw it, the usual changes should be made. A minister has stated here about the right of patients to complain to a surgeon, I was happy at first because I thought that this was finally to be done right for patients and the user of the health system, who believe that the system did not fulfill its obligation properly to the surgeon, and even that information should be added to patients on how to manage matters within the system after trauma and possible medical failures. Sadly, the observed changes seem to lead to reducing the rights of patients and making it more difficult for them to complain to a surgeon and to obtain a reliable solution. I can't see from today's suggestion that some measures should replace patients with patients, but should make it harder for them to get their rights following a health problem. Being a user of the health system is not an easy experience, and it is especially difficult if there are mistakes or difficulties in contact with patients with health care professionals. Pressure on patients and their families is high. It is never an easy experience to enter the hospital, and it is not easier to have to go to the health or social services needed to support patients for long periods of recovery from chronic illness or major surgery, much less when patients have to rely on such support after medical failures, which can lead to longer recovery than expected. This may have unexpected consequences for their quality of life. It takes real effort to be sick, and it takes a huge deal of effort to use the small energy that a patient has to figure out how best to get his way in the system when something comes up. In this context, I would also like to point out that I cannot see that the users of the medical system or those who have had to approach a land surgeon. This leads me to conclude that these changes are not for the patient's benefit but that they are designed to reduce stress from the surgeon general's office. No doubt a more reasonable way could have been used than to make it difficult for patients to communicate the complaint. I do not deny that the system is certainly heavy under pressure, but it should be more emphasised on improving the system and even improving patient rights. Except for the authority of patients to direct comments to a surgeon who is added into the law, these changes indicate that there is quite a significant reduction in the rightfulness of patients who feel that they have to complain about something that has gone wrong. While the decision has not been made to set up the office of the patient's agent or some safety network for patients exposed to medical treatment, I regret to see how patients' rights protection should be ensured if the proposed change is due to be realized. V.E.G. A minister mentioned in reply to me earlier that this would be discussed further, and I hope that in this treatment the changes and changes in the counseling process to the surgeon will ensure adequate protection of patients will be made.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u14	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the presentation of a bill presented here for a change in the law of surgeons and public health and the patient rights, complaints and tips. The bill is about, as shown in a report, explaining the source of complaint to the medical surgeon's office. The sentence makes it safe to be happy that these sources are explained, since there is an increase in those who feel that they need to consult a surgeon because of a number of things that have come up in health care. The surgeon general is a very important institution and plays an important role in the monitoring of health care and health care professionals and is cleared by the bill. The question is highlighted in 12th. g., about health care monitoring - you have heard more about people, this bill connected, and I want to point out this in a relationship that goes to the doctor and goes on a blood test or other basis, and the work programme has been so that the patient should call the doctor himself. At least this has been a work ethic for the individual doctors. I know that this has led to a patient's failure to call, and deaths have been the result of what may have been caused, if the patient had come under medical care, it would have been possible to save him. I think it's a lot of concern. Patients have the right to have the best available services recommended by health care professionals. This method, which I don't want to state, is to have all doctors call, is not consistent with that patient's rights in my opinion. I wanted to get it here to the highest. Minister in connection with this new bill, which is expected to be discussed with the Senate welfare committee. It will discuss this and decide whether changes need to be made.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u15	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a bill to correct a law on environmental impact assessments, no. 106/2000, with subsequent changes. The bill is based on a suggestion that the bill passed by a working group who were assigned to win a bill for a change in the requested law due to the implementation of Directive 2014/52/ESB. The implementation of the directive also calls for adjustments in organizational laws, No. 123/2010, and Environmental Assessment Act, No. 105/2006. The bill was published in the Management Board's consultation guide for introductions and comments, and some changes have been made in subsequent comments. Comments on how to consult and make progress are discussed in Section V of the bill's article. The bill was submitted to the 148th legislature but was not granted. The bill is now submitted by changes. The 2014/52/EU Directive went into effect on 16 May 2017. EFTA, ESA, has taken up a legal case against Iceland for the EFTA Court, where the directive has not yet been introduced into Icelandic rights. The bill suggests some changes in environmental impact assessments designed to enhance the cognition, quality and transparency of environmental assessments. Therefore, it is suggested that in the process of the assessment a more thorough presentation will be made. It is requested that the Agency be introduced electronically and that the Agency also proposes that the Agency's assessment and primary assessment report be made on their website. In addition, the laws intended to simplify the administration, such as the source of cohesion on the environmental assessment and the environment evaluation of the organization, are proposed. The bill suggests that there is a need for expertise in the production and review of environmental data, on the other hand, that the employer ensures that the primary assessment report is prepared by qualified specialists, and on the other hand, that the Agency has access to or has access to the necessary expert knowledge in the review of data. The bill also includes the requirement for more detailed information in the primary assessment report and assessment report. In order to improve transparency and prevent conflicting interests, the bill suggests that rural management will include other members within the local administrations of the Commission making a complete decision on the assessment of activities when the community is itself a candidate. The bill suggests a change in the law's law on assessment. It is suggested that the permission team member be required to request the Agency's decision on whether the evaluation of the environment needs to be done in whole or in part if the application for the implementation of the application delivers its license after seven years from the evaluation of the Agency's assessment of the environmental impact of the Agency. The current law holds that the license party needs to request a decision made by the Agency to review the assessment report if it has not been started within ten years. That time has been too long. The 2014/52/EU Directive requires that version allowing the implementation of the Agency to ensure that environmental assessment is still applicable or available, by permission of the President, ◯up to date, as stated in the Directive. In order to meet this obligation, Member States are permitted to set the timelines for implementation of environmental assessment. When the bill was submitted to the 148th legislature, it was appropriate to aim for the five-year duration of the environmental assessment, which shows that in most cases, implementation has been granted at the end of the five-year environmental assessment of the project. In addition, in most cases environmental assessment has been conducted at over five years of age. It can also be noted that in a bill to correct a change in law No. 106/2000, which became the law of 74/2005, was originally suggested to be based on six years in terms of the possibility of a review of environmental assessment. However, time was extended to ten years during the council. As mentioned earlier, experience has shown that in many cases this time may be too long. In the treatment of the bill at the General Assembly of 148th, opposition, including opposition, was observed. of employment, changing the time of environmental assessment, and aiming at five years. In view of this, it is reasonable to suggest in the bill that the period of environmental assessment will be seven years. It is believed that the above changes can lead to a reduction in the number of charges on licenses, since the origin of such charges is often attributed to the absence of environmental assessment. The bill also suggests the same time limit, i.e. Seven years, this should apply to the measures decided not to be evaluated. This is because no such law can be found in the current law. If, after a seven-year period, an application for performance is completed, the decision should be reimbursed. The bill also suggests that the length of implementation laid down in organizational laws will be extended from one year to two years. This will allow the Commission to extend scope for implementation and meet short-term observations in terms of review of the assessment record from ten years to seven years. The bill also suggests that when applying for projects that have already been submitted to environmental assessments the earlier legislation on the review of the report will keep its value for three years from the implementation of new legislation. The bill is also suggested to provide more detailed requirements for permission of the Member States on granting permission for the evaluation of projects. The license holder should submit the opinion of the Agency on the assessment of the environmental impact of the Agency to the basis of permission. He should agree on a release form where the permission agreement between the permission and the results of the Organization's opinion is established and should be specifically reasoned on by the license if the decision is submitted. The monitoring of the license of the legislator by acting agents on requisitions of counter-importation measures and monitoring is also carefully implemented in a license for the evaluation carried out. The bill presents the new possibility that the Agency will be authorised to lay administrative guiltys on the manager if he has started a procedure without evaluating its environmental impact or without announcing it to the decision on food. The Agency will also be allowed to submit capital guiltys to an executive if they have misinformed the Agency on the implementation or environmental effects of the Agency. At the bill's contract, a report by the prime minister on the treatment of economic degradation, dated October 12, 2006, was made on administrative legislation as well as on chemical laws, No. 61/2013. It is also clear than in the current legislation on the Agency should always be aware of practical options they have considered and compared to environmental effects. In addition, the candidate should specify the reasons for the main management of the environmental impact of the project. With the approval of the bill, it would be permitted to combine environmental reporting forms with a report on the environmental assessment of strategies under organizational legislation and environmental assessment reports. The same applies to public and relations. Thus, while changing the environmental assessment law, no. 123/2010, and law No. 105/2006, the environmental assessments. The above changes are thought to result in saving time and money and simple management practices around environmental impact assessments. A new section on the valuation of environmental impact is expected in the bill. It is suggested that specific measures be set up for the assessment of environmental impact. It contains every step starting with the preparation and payment of the assessment plan and ends with the opinion that the Agency's assessment of environmental impact is laid at the disposal of applications for implementation. The information on environmental impact, which replaces the definition of the concept of the environment, is also provided in the section. The bill also contains regulations that include: the extension of deadlines, of course from environmental impact assessments, information limitation criteria and the change in environmental impact assessments. The bill also presents a change to the Annex 2 of Law No. 106/2000, on the aspects to be taken into account in the assessment procedure. These changes are in accordance with the changes made by Directive 2014/52/EU on Annex III of Directive 2011/92/EU. Finally, it is important to mention that the overall review of environmental impact assessments is being implemented. For this reason, a working group has been established. The main objective of the review is to improve effectiveness in decision-making on environmental impact assessments and to ensure the best access of the public and other stakeholders to the process, in order to conform to the Member State's guidelines. There are also other laws to consider, i.e. Organizational laws, environmental assessment laws, licences and implementation. In addition, the Council has been an expert who has the task of identifying neighboring legislation on the process of environmental assessment and permission. This analysis is intended as a basis for the work group. A respectable president. I've traced the bill's main subject and suggested that the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u16	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the speech. Here's a bill, these are little 49 pages, and before us, this group is insanely complex. What I wanted to ask the highest. A minister is: Is it any easy to simplify this? Is there anything in this bill that helps those who meet these challenges to do so decently? V.E.G. A minister also noted that there was a time for a complete review of the law and the application of its laws. I support it wholeheartedly, and I think, in fact, a respectable president, that it's very important. I have to admit that it is really my feeling after having more than 10 years of experience in being the head of a organizational committee and dealing with the strategy and often assessing the environmental impact that this is a small system for the experts and systems. When environmental impacts need to be assessed, the communities or people who are going to perform these activities are looking for specialists and often an engineering firm that writes a lot of reports. Of course, I'm in favor of assessing environmental impacts. The system we envision is such that the general public can really have an opinion on the issues and deliver them and that we really evaluate the effect of implementation. Sometimes I wonder if the meaning of this entire superpower system is going to get lost. My question to the highest. So the minister is this: Is there any hope that on these 49 pages we will be simplifying our system, making it easier, making it easier for those working with it, and especially for the common people who want to understand and be able to have opinions about what is happening?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u17	Mr. President. In effect, most of the points here are more about simplicity than the rest. I'd like to mention, for example, that when an environmental assessment is launched for a specific procedure that also needs to be changed, e.g. The organization can then make one report on the construction and organizational changes. It is very helpful to save both time and money in the production of environmental food, as is the case when it is proposed public publicity and stakeholders. Some of the principles, including the same, are being explained. to explain more clearly that there needs to be a level of professional knowledge in both the organisation and the Organization, which I think is an improvement in keeping the law clearly. It was asked, "Does the meaning sometimes get lost? " We have long reports from engineering clinics, often very well-behaved and no one doubts, really good work. But it's precisely stated in the bill that the manager is required, if this becomes the law, to make an extract, and now I'm going to put it that way, in human language. With all due respect for the presentation of a text, this should be presented in a clear and accessible way to the public. I agree with these things as a matter of course. A senator mentioned and turned to this matter. But I believe that many things there, while the bill is many words, are simple, and I know that it will also be considered in the general reexamination.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u18	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister's answer to that question is very happy and sincerely hope that this is the very thing to simplify the system. I also, a respectable president, would like to present it, there may be more to it than a question in these topics, and perhaps the highest possible point. Minister only considered it: Is there any reason to make this effort now if we are going to the general review? It's important that, as I think, when we're reviewing the environmental impact law, we're also taking over the planning Act. A minister entered his speech. You can't separate these two. Then I also want to reiterate the importance of this system, as I said before, a respectable president, that the public and stakeholders can easily enter into what is set out there, and that we give the public the opportunity to participate in the process earlier. At the same time, we cannot have a system that can be reported at every level or, as has often been, at the last level. Once all the time and money is spent in all the environmental reports and work, the Agency is reported on the implementation stage. It's the highest. A minister realizes that with the revision, we can make this system all more efficient so that it serves even more fully its purpose and fortress?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u19	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The answer to the question of whether there was any reason to contribute now is yes, otherwise the minister would not be doing so. But in order to back up my case, I would like to point out that this is the introduction of the European Directive, which took place on May 16, 2017, two years ago. We know that the adjustment of laws and laws can sometimes take longer than we plan, so I could not help but contribute. Then it's a clean introduction too. ESAs have a case against the Icelandic government because of this introduction, so it's totally set up, and I'm on top of it now. I don't think that there's anything really against it, although it's safe to point out that, if it happened, since it had been decided to have an overall review, it would have been a good idea to do it all at once. But it was important to get this thing out of the way. Then I'd like to agree with what. A senator's early involvement in the public ministry is of utmost importance. I've assigned the Organization to attack a project on the basis of the European Commission's implementation of the European Commission and partners in an effort to develop a procedure which can contribute exactly to this earlier participation in the process. But in general, one of the objectives of global reexamination is to try to make the process of environmental assessment more efficient, but at the same time to ensure the community's involvement rights under the Communion Convention.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u20	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this bill and his story. My business here is very simple. I'm asking about 1 1 1. which is about the change in Article 12. current law. We are here introducing European rights, as has been discussed in the second case of the past few days. The question is, Should time limits, values, assessments of environmental impact be set, and what should they be? The minister traced it earlier that in the bill, as it was submitted to Council 148, it was expected that the duration would be five years. That's what I call the duration. It's seven years now. I think it's a good compromise, I would have been a shorter in the five years, but according to the comments given on this law, I think it's a good compromise. My question is, what happens to the duration of the law's assessment of existing environmental impacts? Will they, after the implementation of these laws that are to be applied right away according to the final article, submit to a rule of 10 years, or a seven - year rule?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u21	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Álfheiður Ingadóttir for his counter-sponsored response. A lot of years is something we could debate for a long time. It may also be asked, Should we be head of a number of years, or should we always determine whether the environmental assessment is still applicable? This will probably be taken up on the overall reexamination, but it is important to settle this, and the seven years now came to a conclusion after the treatment of the council at the last legislation. With regard to the time of the already existing environmental assessment, I would like to point out the problem. A senator of the provisional regulations stipulated by the older law on review of the evaluation of the assessment report, when applying for licences for which an assessment of their environmental impact is considered, maintains its value for three years from the execution of these laws. So it's three years if it's settled in the process mentioned in the provisional agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u22	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the law of restaurants, restaurants, and entertainment. The bill suggests two material changes, first for the monitoring of returns on a updated summary due to documented homemaking and secondly due to the repair to violation of the Marketing Authorisation Management Programme. The bill was written at the Department of Employment and Development and both changes have to do with the county's field of work in the capital area. In recent years, with the arrival of the shared economy, homemaking has become an important part of the country's accommodations. We can be sure that without it, we would have had a real problem accepting all the visitors who have come here since the growth of tourism as a industry after the eruption of the Eyjafjörður Bay in 2010. On January 1, 2017, the law on regulations related to rented real estates in registered homes went into effect. Since then, the businessman in the capital area has a legal obligation to register with the businessman in the capital area. Following legal fittings to rent real estates for the benefit of an individual to the home of the local community, there was a considerable increase in renting, but in 2017 a businessman approved a record of homemaking. By 2018, registration was nearly doubled, which year 2,022 property was recorded in homemaking. Last January. was an increase in the registration rate of 40% compared to January 2018. This increase in registrations can be attributed not only to the fact that more people want to use the available authority to be rented in 2018 than in 2018 but also to the increase in home monitoring during the past few months. There's a big deal about how in July 2018, I gave 64 million. K. funding to the county in the capital area to promote this monitoring of the so - called home zone. Homemaking watch was set up to meet the inevitable challenges of changing the environment in Iceland, including with an increase in the number of tourists who choose to make use of homework, such as Airbnb and Booking.com. This is also seen in many other European cities, which have faced similar challenges. This brings me both the challenges to the environment, i.e. The community involved in a domestic disorder for inhabitants of an apartment area where housing is not permitted otherwise, and I also face challenges to the branch and competitive environment within it, while many of the Marketing Authorisation Places have made significant comments to the wishes of homemaking far beyond the authority available in the law. In this way they feel that unsurpassed homemaking undermines their activities and a competitive, competitive stand beyond what can be viewed as normal. The Homeland Guard, therefore, is primarily designed to address and reduce the quality of the country's housing activities in black jobs. It may be said that they succeeded. The record has increased, the number of field trips has been taken from the county in the capital area to follow up indications of illegal stay-ins and government funds as well as tens of millions of dollars since the outbreak of the campaign. The result is also secondary, such as the competition in the article and the right taximulation of individuals. Despite the results already being achieved, it is clear that the short-term terms of this country are still being carried out without the proposed permission or registration. It is suggested in the bill that I now recommend to support this important monitoring further to follow up the successful homework initiatives. The changes proposed in the bill are suggested to further monitor homemaking, as well as for case management and violations of the registry and to coordinate the protocol. Thus, the bill of the bill in the first place suggests that if a member of the registered home neglects to submit a validation statement, he or she will be allowed to employ administrative fines. An overview of the days of renting houses each calendar year, along with information on rent rents of the potential landlords, is summarised. By 13. Current legislation is required to enter a validation index at the end of each almanac wound. In any case, almost half, 46%, of the individuals who registered their home to their home in 2018 were neglected to produce an overview. No wood laws are required under current legislation to neglect a renewal index, and the county has thus had no alternative but to direct it to registered persons to enter it. So the goal of the change is to provide a businessman with resources to force a renewal statement by placing administrative guiltys on registered members who fail to return it. Secondly, the bill presents a move from police officers to the county. In accordance with current law, the county's sole authority is to use individual fines as a result of violation of domestic registration regulations. On the other hand, if there is a violation of the license to stay, a special charge must be issued by the police chief. Sadly, since the Law on Homemaking took place, the arrangement is not as effective as expectations were. This is because, at first, when a businessman submits illicit short-term rent, it is difficult to determine whether or what to do with the registered party or where the license party is concerned. Therefore, the manager has been working with a tip for the administration of the authorised party and sent to the police chief, who have a court of application for the Marketing Authorisationr. As police officials have many challenges and have to set priorities on the basis of seriousness and security issues, this has led to the failure of the Marketing Authorisation Management Board not to be sufficiently successful. So this is why there are very different treatments between a businessman and a police officer, which can easily lead to conflicting results for similar fractions, i.e. a violation related to the registration of the innable activities and the administration of the authorised room inebriities, however. In other words, inconsistencies can easily arise between parties who violate comparable rules in comparable activities. Hence, the main aim of the change is to prevent inconsistencies by suggesting the application of a violation of the perennial host action taken from the sheriff to the county. This process will prevent inconsistencies, cause treatments will be accelerated and coordinated, as well as reduce the costs resulting from the cost of high court lawsuits. If the change proposed in the bill becomes a law, it will lead to short-term renting persons, whether without a written license or registration, receiving similar treatments in the same office. It is evident then that while the county's decision to commit a comparable pact of guilt to the basis for the registration of duties and to the management of the Marketing Authorisations would be applied in general, in view of the fact that in the majority of cases the number of cases is missing. Besides, most of the pieces are more serious in the sense of the law. As a result, metabolic viewpoints undermined the use of heavier capital fines to the management of the Marketing Authorisation. Finally, it is also worth saying that it is also suggested that a businessman himself be allowed to provide data which can be proposed as a basis for making decisions on the use of individuals or legislators for violating the law. The bill does not require any changes in penal law or law, and it has been done in good consultation with the Ministry of Justice and other governments. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u23	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalise the change of public penalties, partnership laws, private partnership laws and the law on auto-replaced institutions. The objective of the bill is to stem the abuse of the partner formulation and the social security number of so-called business ventures. The bill is based on the covenant of the government classes, including those in the United States. To find a discussion about the government's policy in labour markets and to be specifically designated as social security. The bill is employed in cooperation with the Department of Employment and Development, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, which takes a step in dealing with the National Association of Iceland's Common Association and the National Association of Employment from June 2017 in coping with the social security scale. The three Ministry Departments have in the past miserably considered the organization's proposals, but the suggestions are on nine sides and on several topic areas. The proposal that has been most emphasised is the organization's suggestion that an individual can be ruled in a certain case by a professional ban. The three advisers were assigned to consider whether ASI and SA recommendations to be updated can be applied in a way that would be most consistent with the general treatment of the country. In this context, it must be kept in mind that rapid treatment of these events is important and the need to consider the current situation. As we evaluate the extent to which implementation of the job test would be considered, there is a trend towards a trend toward a viewpoint on effectiveness and public interest and the safety of the citizens. The bill presented here can be considered as a first step, but the bill with the bill is announced to provide a bill for the next legislation to change the law of bankruptcy. In this case, an additional supplement is to fill the changes proposed in the bill. Work on the legal modifications is in the hands of the Ministry of Justice, and it is already under way and will be consulted with ASI and SA on the implementation of that bill following the consultations that have taken place in the past few months. As shown in the bill report, the changes proposed there do not fully achieve the objective of protecting the demands and the community as a whole from the risk of loss, which would likely be due to misuse of the component formulation. Thus it can be assumed that most of the most serious events are likely to be causing community damage in connection with bankruptcy and later the failure of partners. A respectable president. It's not illegal in this country to go bankrupt, and it's a normal part of a business life. How important it is that we keep up - to - date with the discussion of these matters! On the contrary, it is important to be moderate in looking for ways to correct and that the action under attack is well - thought - out, and that measures such as this not be taken may be considered. Stops pioneers and innovations from bringing money into the Icelandic economy, interrupting, or polishing foreign investors. The proposals in the bill are three. First of all, if a man is found guilty of crime against 262 str. a legal hearing in a criminal court forbids him to establish a union of limited social responsibilities, sit in a board, work as a manager, or otherwise come to control and have a greater part of the voting rights in such a group for up to three years. The proposal includes only the cases where you are found guilty of major violations against the terms of income taxes, the payment of public pay fees, the legislation on merit taxes, accounting laws, and the bill on annual accounts. The law allows the judge to have any leeway, but the bill suggests that the ban applies to forming a society of limited social responsibilities, sitting on a board, working as a manager, or otherwise in some other way to govern or take a greater part of the voting rights in such a partner. A judge may decide to impose a ban on us for up to three years or not to accept a ban. This is a new layer of penalties, which is the same as the current legal law on rights detriment. The bill also suggests a list of 1st. Section 262. a general penalties will be added to the legislation on the insurance policy of pension and the operation of pension funds so that pension payments will be granted comparable protection and interest to taxes. Second, the bill suggests that the relevant conditions of the management board and the executive body members of its partner, private partner and sectoral organisations. The laws on partnerships, private partnerships, and the laws on auto-employment agencies require that management or managers be legal, their budget and that they are not allowed within the last three years, be judged for criminal action based on general penalties or legislation, private partnerships, accounts, annual bills, bankruptcy, or public fees. It is suggested in the bill that there be an addition to the list of related insurance rights and the work of pension funds and that there are an explanation for the addition of public fees, e.g. to legalize income taxes, improve credit taxes, and set insurance bills. The loss of members and managers of a partner, private partner and auto-employees who are employed as such should inform a partner file or a self-employment registry and have the authority to dissociate governments and managers who are qualified to be such. The bill suggests that the same appropriate conditions for the propulsive partner, private partner, and autodiversaries who are engaged in employment and for the management and management of such organisations and institutions are set up. The objective of the change is to prevent those who have been judged guilty of criminal action related to employment can take care of all that concerns the company or the organisation. Third, it is suggested in the bill that a secretary's authority under the social law and private law in order to require exchange of such members in certain legal cases will be provided to the section of the membership that is operated by the governor of the tax. The legal cases discussed in part enterprises are e.g. when there are fewer than two shareholders in such a group and it is not replaced within three months, even when treaties are legally broken by law, but the shareholder's meeting does not determine social breakdown. The more advanced source currently unknown to the minister has not been used, but it is important that the resources can be used when cases arise in the laws on partnerships and private partnerships. All these proposals of the bill are consistent with the fact that they are responding to ASI and SA from June 2017 on ways to match the job social security. The bill has been prepared in good consultation with this person. We look at this bill to see how our neighboring countries have dealt with the topic - making process in a practical way and can learn from their experience. There is no systematic collection of information on social security, however there is some evidence here. Although the extent of social security has not been accurately measured, there can be no reason to believe that Iceland is the only North American state that does not have such a problem. As mentioned earlier, this is a first step that matters, but that does not mean that a job social security will be over. The task here is difficult and important to look for ways to deal with the problem. This case has been under way since the summer of 2017, and it has called for the work of experts, both inside and outside the recruitment process. This is a very important first step toward fostering a fair business and competitive environment in this country, which is a threat to job identification. Separator transport is an abuse of the components. So I hope that we can join together here and take steps to prevent this misuse of part-employment and employment social security number. As I've traced before, it is very important to be moderate in looking for ways to cope with child abuse. The actions under attack must be well thought - thought - out, and care must be taken not to resort to measures such as this. In addition to preventing normal primary and innovation activities, there is doubt that the implementation of employment bans is in accordance with the Constitution, but special coverage of it is found in a paper with the bill. Mr. President. I believe this is a critical bill aimed at preventing the misuse of the components and the job social security index. This, in the past, tells the first step and more frequent events to be expected in the fall, as the bill shows. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u24	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech and for putting up this matter. I think this is a very important matter. Despite the highest. A minister has mentioned that for no official evidence or analysis whether the social security number was a real problem, I think we all know that it is. I agree with that too. The importance of things, of course, may fail. Business is a normal part of the business, as we put it. It's not unusual. We teach our children that if we fail, if we fall down, we get up and try again. But there is trouble around the law, how to handle it, as it were, the highest. A minister well put it, when it comes to the misuse of such important form of society as your partner. I have repeatedly received mail, phone calls, and conversations about the importance of taking care of such matters. I meet up with quite a lot of employers, often smaller people, industrialists, contractors, and others, who feel that people out there are engaging in social security. What I think is important is that these are a variety of general fractures, outwards, trying to get past things. If people have either a firm offense or no ambition to follow moral standards, it is not just about having a new social security number regularly, perhaps having some social security numbers, and maintaining a reasonable operation on them, knowing that alone and alone, there are many other factors involved. This may be tax expenditures, abnormal conduct and pay paid to employees. There's so much in there. I wanted to mention that the work-place surveillance that was done by a government tax manager, a labour agency, I think, no doubt, and then the union unions said that it was very good for many employers. I've got at least two tips to put it back on. I believe that there are certain reasons why institutions often find it difficult to share information, but I think it is very important when we talk about the importance of having a healthy job life and a healthy competitive market that this surveillance or extramarital situation is complete. When individuals are clearly trying to turn their backs on the rules and laws, they need to be carefully observed. Again, I'm delighted very much that the case has been taken care of. I agree with that too. A minister entered, that this was the first step. We need to move on in some road route. It is important and is made clear in this case that it is the employment organization or the job life itself that calls for it. It is important for companies to live in healthy market competition. At the same time, laws must never be such that they must not make mistakes. Primary and innovation activities are the nature of the situation so that sometimes it fails, and we don't want to punish people so they can't get up and try again. I'd like to use this opportunity as we discuss the union law and point out that in the Commission's Committee of State Affairs from the previous council, a foreign minister was assigned to carry out the assignment that we were discussing, but it would probably also come on the table of the highest level. Travellers, industrial and innovation ministers, who are enclosing laws on the peer structure, to look at the possibility of new partners, are made available to the cooperation of government and private parties, the English-exposed, by permission of presidents, ◯PPP◯ or Public-private partnership; I'd like to keep it up for sure they'll have that job. I think it's important. Otherwise, I'll just say that I'm celebrating the bill very, very, very, very much, and I hope that there'll be a good publicity on the committee and it'll be done from here as soon as I can, because it's definitely a very important first step in the way we solve the ill that happens when people abuse our society.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u25	Mr. President. I'm glad we're dealing with a top bill. Tourism, industrial and innovation minister on the change in general penalties where what we have called a social security network may be used to identify what is meant by social security. Sometimes people are just talking about normal and what I call honest bankruptcy because there are, of course, an honest bankruptcy. It is in my nature to be protected whenever the lawgiver or the European Commission is presented with a bill that contains burdensome measures against individuals and/or companies. This is a bill in that it is certainly being followed here to lay the burden on individuals or to weigh them down, and it may be that we are approaching the uncomfortable rights of the Constitution. When I talk about the social security class here, and I think it's going to be the same understanding as in the bill, it's actually talking about the intention of corporate owners or managers to save property and start new jobs on a new social security number, that the swelling company is left out of property, creditors in wounds, customers in wounds, etc. It's a problem we've had to deal with for many years, and it's probably as far as business goes and it's allowed to establish communities with limited responsibilities. This bill aims to solve this problem, at least Partial. This behaviour, the social security code, by my definition and the definition of the bill, is, of course, a lesion. It is a sign of unhealthy business practices and, more importantly, may be the worst. It is unfair when it comes to honest business owners. It's like the highest. Within two years, a minister withdrew in union with the work force of employment and the Common Union on proposals to work on deceitful employment, and in many ways I can agree with those suggestions, i.e. In that their goals are noble. I agree with the firms of industry and ASI when it comes to the fact that there is a lot to work for society to ensure a healthy business life. The damage we all are going to face to honest companies, honest companies, government funds, pension funds, employees, traders, and creditors. However, it is so that if I get to attend, as I do sometimes, in a U.S. trial fountain, people often say that no one really is a real businessman until he has tried it, went through that experience, looking at a company he's been fighting up and putting all his money on, once or even twice, down in an honest way. We also have such a story here by Icelandic businessmen, both present and past, who have prepared everything, built up an enterprise, some of whom have failed, and then have failed business candidates, because these are entrepreneurs, have not given up, started again, built up an enterprise, and perhaps in other or third attempts, and we have been able to benefit from it. In the United States it's at least so in general, when corporate leaders sail on the coast after an honest attempt to build up an enterprise, society is all invested in the vast knowledge and experience of the individual, and there is no way to sacrifice that experience and that knowledge, and therefore it should be promoted by men who have gained this experience and that knowledge. This is just to say that it is so important that it is so important, when we wrestle to prevent a treacherous business that strikes all of us, that we always keep in mind that we do not act in a way that we extract the desire of individuals, and I don't talk about the desire of young people, to create an independent basis for the operation of our own company. We must not speak in that way or be suspicious that at first we will not succeed in building a business so that our friends or the others who follow it will wonder because there is some shame in themselves that will not succeed at first. But all is under the pretext that honesty is at work, not in a deceitful way, as it is being tried to deal with this bill. I have to state that I support the bill or its main ingredient. Of course, that will be the case. It's so good to know that I'm a man and a woman. paritaprevir Haraldsdóttir, who spoke above, has to work with our partners on the Economic and Business Committee. The bill is a good guide to the fight we must be prepared to do against dishonest business, but the way between putting a hold on dishonesty and securing the freedom of the city is hard to deal with. We have to walk that way slowly, out of reason, and it's better to go too short, go shorter than we're going, but to go too far and break down or to go against the city's commercial rights, and in some way stop normal business, natural progress, and natural motivation to build up and start a business. In this regard, I think it's good for us here, good for us on the Economic and Business Committee, but as well for the rest of the cases. Senators, wondering if there's something in the rule book itself that we can change and make it easier to start a business, make it less expensive to start a business, simplify it in a way that even the bar mitzvah boy or the bar mitzvah could create their own company for the summer's gardening or whatever, other services to fellow citizens. We're supposed to have the environment here, the management environment, so it's easy, and there's little cost to start a business. We are to have room for individuals and their organization to take risks. We need to make sure that the rules and laws we set in order to match the social security scale, double-crossing jobs, provide protection to those who are exposed to such activity, but do not go too far. This is what I'd like to say, Mr. President. I thought it proper to share these views with me. We'll begin after this discussion with the Constitutional treatment of the economic and business committee and the project is urgent. It's fun, but it's challenging too.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u26	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. He opened his speech by claiming to be defensive about beating that bill. I just wanted to come up here and tell you that I'm very comfortable with the fact that the head of the Economic and Business Committee is about to take a defensive stand on this case because of the situation. A senator also mentioned that the subject of the bill was burdensome, and that is correct. That's why I trust each other. A senator is very well acquainted with the case on the committee. This is a very important separation, and it is important always to keep this in mind when discussing these issues, that bankruptcy is one thing and the misuse of the components is another. That's the hard way, and that's what we're at. A senator agrees. It's my job, but I repeat, it's time to go on this project. All our neighbors have done so long ago, and it is time for us to do the same. We're gonna go for a second. A senator argues to remain very healthy in business life and healthy competition, and an honest business owner can continue to move on. This bill's in there. Today it will be a conquistador. It is important that the committee examines all of this very carefully, but whole, this bill calls for a mature discussion here at the council and also in the community. I'm sure it'll be a test, and we have a role in it. They need to be moderate, bankruptcy is a very normal part of business life, and most important is that there is no shame. Of course, there are a lot of investors who only want to invest in companies that have individuals who have gone off once because they also teach you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u27	Mr. President. I'm glad to have a place to speak at the highest. Minister to state everything the Minister said. It just so happens. A minister is also responsible for the future of the country when it comes to innovation. Across the corner is the fourth industrial revolution. The opportunities we face there are incredible. The soil as the highest. A minister has been creating such a way of thinking that there could be an amazing number of small and mediumsized and future enterprises. That is why it is so important when we discuss making burdensome rules about business matters that we do so tactfully and do not send the message out of this room that it is bad or must be bad at all, take the risk, do the experiment, but it will fail, and the person will watch his company fail. There's nothing abnormal about it, it's perfectly normal, it's natural and essential mechanism in the market economy that a company thrives and some falls. That is why it is important, and it is a pleasure to do so. A minister should speak in such a way that we are not going to set rules to make a person suspicious of a business venture that cannot succeed. [[The president calls.]] However, we are ready to use the rules to prevent deceitful business practices.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u28	Mr. President. It is absolutely true that this is important, and in the innovation environment, because of what it is. A senator came in to see whether we could make it easier, for example. to start a business, I'm sure it is. There's just one particular feature that's been set up at work on innovation policy for Iceland. You see, I think there's an opportunity here for a discussion on these issues to distinguish the two. I think that a box around which people are betraying and breaking laws, a decent frame around them, can help us approach our commercial life in general, pioneers, and encourage them to take chances and start a business, and it's a good thing to fail and it's part of entering that area. I think that such people would feel better if they were tight about those who obviously break the law and abuse the partner form and then those who take risks, start companies, try to make valuables, and they can fail and then get back up and go on. Here, there can be an opportunity to do just that. Besides, I agree, and I've had this bill in practice for almost two years, that it's better to take smaller steps than practical, and be sure that we're on the right track, map the next steps, and push us forward instead of taking oversized steps and making mistakes like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u29	Mr. President. I agree with the highest. Minister that it's more reasonable for all to take small steps and know what we're doing than to take big steps and not know where we're going. That's where I have the highest. Minister, in this, like anything else, whether in this case or in any other matter, an energy package or a god knows what. Our objective, and we should just say that, is that we will promote the honest. We will make life easier, easier, easier, and easier for those who want to engage in honest business and risking their lives. At the expense of public funds, at the expense of employees and the cost of their rivals, we plan to make a commitment to the bad guys who do business at our expense. It also matters that we combine to try to keep the rules all plain and simple because complex rules of play are primarily for the big ones and walk against the smaller ones, to reduce innovation, to make it more difficult for individuals to gain a course of new ideas to cover the big companies with new products, new types of service, and new thinking. That's why we're supposed to do our problem, make the rule all simple, including It's a rule to try to keep the bad guys in line, but I'm on that road.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u30	V.E.G. President. I'd like to thank you very much. Minister of history. A senator for the speech. I agree with everything. In his speech, I wholeheartedly agree with him in all of this, and I would like to underscore what has happened to our thinking about the free market community, though, that the state has rules, namely. The rules of conduct, we don't press on to the individual, we don't squeeze the economy, we don't press on to a more fertile thought, we don't press on to those who want to thrive and do better. What may have been missing only during the discussion, and I'd like to bring in into it is that on the shoulders of the State is a state duty of observation. We have an official organisation in various industrys and, including, monitoring of companies and monitoring duties, are important. It is important that she be disciplined, not to be indulged. As happened in the collapse of the bank, it was really clear long before things got bad. Various government institutions knew about this, but they did nothing about it, so that creditors, suppliers, State, taxpayers, and pensioners lost. My question to why. The senator's opinion is, part of the problem, i.e. This social security number can be found, including including the Rapporteur and, in some cases, in the absence of anaphylactic reactions, i.e. not to react when and when it comes to business management?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u31	Mr. President. You're right next door. A senator to the State, to the Commission, is to be made up of a specific surveillance role, whether it is a business or conduct of the individual. That's what we're for, for example. with the police. My main criticism when it comes to observation, and I'm talking about it in general, although not all of them, is that of being more concerned with trying to catch men, catching up with those under their supervision, and punishing them rather than doing directions. I know, for example. That financiers in the United States view it as a far more important job to guide people in a financial market than to be finding dishonest bad guys who do financial transactions, i.e. They are in an effort to ensure the health of the market. That's why they go into the bank or into the stock market and say to the person: "Hey, buddy, this isn't working for you. The way you do this business isn't exactly what we want it to do, it goes against healthy business practices. You've got to fix this. The person adapts it, and this results in a more healthy financial market. However, if the person stays busy, they will be taken. I think it's so important that we start looking at surveillance agencies and the role of the surveillance agencies not necessarily to hang men, but to guide men on how to do honest and healthy business, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u32	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Björn Óli Kárason responds and makes no difference with him in this. I hope he hasn't misunderstood my inquiry. What I'm about to go in on is clear that, of course, the Rapporteurs can be a guide in their roles. As an example, I mentioned earlier the failure of the bank that is far away from us in time, as it were, the Grouping Agency has a schedule for monitoring companies and management. It involves a guiding role, but it must not be so far as to allow for a lack of information that may be left to the point of biting an honest person, those who are doing well but suffer before doing so. At that time, creditors, suppliers, even employees, and perhaps state funds are being brought to their end because the demands of observation were not cared for. That's what I was trying to call for rather than sharpening surveillance agencies to attack and try to get them. I'm totally against it, to make it clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u33	Mr. President. I don't think I've misunderstood, and I hope I didn't imply it. A senator would feel that the surveillance industry or patrol partners should be involved in the capture of humans. I'm not. Hv. A senator did not claim that at all, so it is said. The problem is that it is a bit difficult, a road between monitoring a particular operation and then having the power to stop it. There's no small problem, and I'm not quite sure that I'm ready to turn anyone in, even one person, the director of the institution, no matter how trusted he is, the power to decide to enter a business and stop his business. I think it's power that we never want to give up an institution or some other person. I realize the problem we are dealing with, but I do think that if we make it, the cost would be greater than the benefits. So I won't be a spokesman to do it that way. I realize, however, that this is a problem, but sometimes it is so in the human world that there are problems that we must live with them until we find a solution that is acceptable and does not violate our idea of professional rights and individual freedoms, etc. The possibility that an institution or individual can sit in his seat and decide that this company is now shutting down business, I don't think it's a good idea. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u34	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion too much, but I can't afford to come up here and say a few words about this good bill and celebrate it at the top. Travel, industrial, and innovation ministers are offering it today. I had a word with a minister recently about this very issue, and it's a pleasure that it has come into play in this urgent matter. Like what? paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir came in earlier is this drive - to - face assignment. Semigraphing is, unfortunately, a term that has become a factor in the Icelandic language and has not exaggerated the actual compression or a serious appearance. We have incredible tolerance for taking landmarks across a wide range of areas, so to speak. As we have seen, both speeches are excellent. paritaprevir Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir's daughter and why. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son has these pictures and, in general, it links us to the whole community. There are families, there are companies, there are societies, and that's a state fund. In recent years, the cost of society has been billions of dollars because of the people I want to call me "Supervers. " They are factors that even direct and consciously control their enterprises, stem from valuables, possessions, and resources, and even equipment. That's what we have to do, and I believe it's time to act. While there is a great desire for employment in general to pursue good business practices, as in many areas of life, so many things are meant for themselves. There have been studies among Icelandic companies, and this was done on the behalf of the University of Reykjavík a few years ago among several hundred companies and more than 70% of them had been damaged by social security and lost funds. More than one third of the enterprises involved in this survey had lost more than six losses. This is serious, and it was a great desire among the leaders that this would be taken by law. It's a social ill that's been over and over and over again, but it doesn't. Similarly, industrial organizations have been very harsh in their criticisms and have gone into campaigns against social security. It is not that the Allied Council did nothing to prevent ten years, a whole decade, from giving four members of the council a bill here and where are we today? [[Flmrh.: It took such a good government.]] We are in the same situation. V.E.G. The social and child - care minister points out that it took such a good government as is now in power to change. I expect the government to make the changes necessary. It's been reported in debates. Tonight's senators are not allowed to overindulge us, not overstepping our steps, as we have not done so. In a report of the work group mentioned above. Recently, social and child - care ministers appointed and returned at the beginning of the year, which dealt with social subsidies and violations of a labour market as the most serious problem in the Icelandic labour market. The list of what needs to be handled is at the top of the list, and it does so immediately. Or, as I mentioned earlier, the organization of industry and ASI, the European Union of Iceland, has been awakened and fell asleep in this regard, pointing this ill to the government over and over and over again. It's not about labour market stakes. This observation has been repeated. A respectable president. V.E.G. A minister pointed out this in his speech when she spoke to this bill for changes in general penalties - this is under penalties, we are talking about serious violations of the labour market - that it should not be too far, should not be too much to think of, and should be revered by a sceptre company, repetitive innovation, and traditional pioneers. We agree wholeheartedly, to encourage all of that and to pay off the street of innovation by any means possible, to promote subsidiary activities, and to prosthesis. This can be done in various ways, and it must be guided by good morals at all times. It was noted that more guidance might be applied, and of course it is more upbuilding and better. Similarly, we should aim to make it easier to start a business, make it less expensive, and encourage it. I agree with that, it's a creative industry to start and operate a business and learnable thing, and, of course, it's a lesson to be learned. I suppose so. Yet, I think most honest people would like to be without that experience. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason mentioned that in this bill, there are burdensome factors. If he thinks it's burdensome to make it harder to go over, then it must be, and I just think it's okay. But, hey. A senator also came to realize that of course, we must not overlook the possibility of trauma, unforeseen occurrence, preventable trauma, and failure. This is not to be expected, of course not, but let us bear in mind that a recent failure of a major corporation in Icelandic society and leave billions of dollars behind. It was not a week before this same pioneers and the powerful founder of the company had come back with a smile and ready to start a new business of exactly the same kind. Of course, the community smiled at ears, believing that this is not a bad idea. We need to adjust this thinking, I think, to some extent, to correct it. I'm not gonna have this any further. I wish to the highest. A minister is happy to have brought in this bill and challenged it. Councilmen of the Economic and Business Committee to handle this case firmly and provide this bill as a law from the Council of the First.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u35	Mr. President. I wanted to come up and thank you for having a good and perfunctory discussion. Councilmen. If this is going to be the discussion of the committee and here at the council Hall on the case, I'm sure we'll get close with it, we'll finish it, and if there's any way we can improve it, that would be very good. I thank you for the interest of the senators and for the objective. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u36	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in rent. The bill is designed to improve the security of those who have been rented as houses for their work. On the end of a contract has long been a rule for this group of less than rights, but it is generally true for the tenants of an apartment house. So since 1979 it has been stated in the law of this country that when an employee is an employee of the landlord and has been rented by the employer because a job contract falls down without a specific notice, lets tenants leave their jobs by their own requests, be legally removed from jobs because of violations in it or because of the completion of the planned recruitment period. This is now the 50th chapter of the discussion. The tenet of rents, and it has remained unchanged from the values of the 1995 Law at the beginning of the year, but a physical harmony arrangement was previously set out in 62 C.E. older law on rent contracts. It is urgent that there will be changes in the provision of rent law so as to increase the security of tenants who have rented houses on account of their work. Out of the 50s. The law says that there is an end to the employer's recruitment relationship, and the employee loses their contract between spontaneous results immediately after the employee's retirement. Of course, this means that at the end of a contract, he must immediately make room and return his rent to the employer, thus not having an appointment as generally appropriate. On the basis of rent rents, tenants generally have the right to a period of notice from a landlord when reporting an untimely contract. That deadline may vary with renting an apartment house and depend on the circumstances. In any case, it is six months in length, but it can take 12 months if a tenant has rented an apartment house for more than 12 months, and the landlord is a hired hireor who rents the house for employment. However, it is not in the case of a tenant who has been hired by his employer for his job but who loses his place immediately, i.e. without notice at the end of the line. In my opinion, it is completely unacceptable that tenants have to suffer because they live under a legal status, but in general, only for the reason that they have obtained rent from their employer. Of course, the employer can have a lot of interest in making arrangements for another employee, but I don't think it can be justified by the employee who lives there to leave it immediately at the end of the work. Instead, there must be room for the individual to respond to the changed conditions of retirement and find new housing. The loss of both jobs and housing is enough, much less space and return to the employer immediately after the recruitment relationship has ended. In this, it is essential that the lawgiver allow rent safety to outweigh employers' interests in order to arrange the rented residence with another employee. Therefore, the bill recommended here suggests a change of 50 grams. Structural shapes. It is suggested that instead of spontaneous collapse of a contract without a specific notice and notice at the end of the employment relationship, the contract needs to be written down. In this way both parties of the contract, employee and employer will be allowed to divulge a contract relating to the tenant's retirement work, but this will not happen automatically. If the landlord cancels the contract, it is suggested that a general notice be set at 56 p.m. Whether a temporary or an untimely contract has been made, rents have been made. It was attributed earlier that the notice of an untimely contract of an apartment building is either 6 or 12 months depending on the circumstances. On the other hand, the principle of rent law is that temporary negotiations do not mean deadlines. Rather, such agreements run out on a fixed day and thus cannot be explained to them about the duration of the contract. On the other hand, the bill suggests that the resignation of temporary contracts will be allowed in relation to the end of tenants. The employer has to have time to cancel such a contract so that another employee can rent the house, but within a certain period of time, and in this way the employee who leaves the job loses his home not immediately at the end of the work, but has the right to the period of notice on the part of the landlord. As we have seen, a temporary contract has been made that will be as long as an untimely contract has been made, this bill will be legal. Clearly, an employee can also benefit from being freed from a contract he has made with his employer. For example, if the person has moved to a certain place for the purpose of the job being handled and obtained an apartment building with the employer, for example. So make sure he wants to return home after his retirement. Or he may want to move something else to start a new job. In such a situation, it is important that the tenant be not bound to the notice for months after the completion of his employment relationship with the landlord. In this way, a tenant may have to pay rent out an notice on a house that is no longer useful to him. So the bill suggests that a tenant can supply up to eight weeks from the end of the employment relationship, breaking down the contract and taking the resignation when valid. In this way, the tenant will be given the necessary space to process the changed circumstances, find new housing, and clear the apartment, but free from the commitments they make at the end of the contract. Although the eight - week delay is also important for tenant to cope with the changed situation, it is also important that the decision of these times is looked forward to the interests of the landlord because it is as soon as possible to say if a tenant plans to cancel a contract on the basis of a particular rule. Similarly, the landlord's authority is expected to cancel the contract on the basis of the special protocol, after which the general rules of the authority of the two sides of the contract are stated. The bill is thus designed to improve the legal status of those who have obtained rent from their employer because of their job and thereby increase the security of the individual. This bill went on a confidential talk and made some comments about it, followed by changes in cooperation with tourism stakeholders and consultations with labour market parties and ASI. I suggest the bill go to what? The welfare committee. It is important that they receive a good discussion and a good review period so that everyone can have an opportunity to give a review of the matter and the changes recommended here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u37	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for his history and for putting forth this fine thing. I think it's a pretty modern thing to do here. The situation in Icelandic society is being changed, and it is also being looked to to to ensure the legal rights of tenants. It's very important. The workers' quarters of their employers are not new in Iceland and have been far back for centuries. Hv. Councilmen know how to make shelters, farm supplies, etc., where workers have lived in the labour workers' quarters. Today it may be better known in travel services, especially in a country where immigrants often live in homes that are either roads or directly owned by their employers. From here on in the capital area, we are also familiar with this example. Large companies in order to form nursing care in the capital area have been living for a long time with their employees so that they have been able to invite some of them to their homes, and in the past few months, just a large business has been operating in the capital area. You might say, and it's kind of my assessment of this bill, that not only are the interests of the payman under. I think the tenant in this regard or the employee has an obvious interest in having an notice, but the owner of a house also has a interest in having the employee living with this security. It can be assumed that an employee who has more security in his living quarters is more likely to be a good employee, more likely to stay at work where he is, etc. This, however, is an important provision of supreme importance. A secretary made it possible, on some occasion, that the tenant may get out of the building sooner, but perhaps some conventional contracts would suggest that we also know in modern social situations that there has become more than before that workers are pursuing jobs, if we can call it, perhaps in recent times, especially those who work in tourism and with a wide variety of activities. I'm glad this case has come to pass. health committee and will at least I try to finish it. While there may be little interest in growth, it is a very important issue to complete in order to improve the position of these workers in the labour market as well as to explain the rights of both parties.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u38	A respectable president. I recommend here tonight for the bill for a law on education, ability and counseling of teachers and school directors at high school, elementary school, and high school. The bill is the product of a reexamination of current education laws and teachers and school directors at preschool, elementary school and high school, No. 87/2008. Regular announcement has been made to the Constitution of the Governments of 143th. However, it has not been until now, but since the early fall of 2018, it has been organized to revise the law in close cooperation with a university that cares for the education of teachers, teachers' unions, school directors, and the Union of Icelandic rural society. The reason for this legislation is that a current law on education and counseling of teachers and school directors at preschool and elementary school has not contributed to the desired flow of teachers as planned, as well as the separation between schools expressed in teachers' letters of permission, has, unfortunately, held back the teacher's work development and stood in the way of learning integration. It is expected that the changes taken by the bill will lead to increased flexibility and the flow of teachers between schools, encourage career development, increase the quality of education and diversity, as well as to improve the safety of teachers. Expecting that the changes will increase the training skills of teachers, making the work more desirable, and the number of qualified teachers in the class. The objective of the bill is that those who are caring for child training, teaching and management in play schools, elementary schools and higher schools in the country have education and skills in line with their work and responsibility. National competitiveness can be partly attributed to a level of education. Teachers are key personnel of the education system. They lead to changes and improve school quality. The increase in qualified teachers will thus strengthen the competitiveness of the country. It is emphasized that this will be a large group of teachers who have the ability to deal with future challenges that will confront the coming years and decades, while effective teachers at all school are the principal precept for this vision to be realized. The government's treatise is presented with a large education campaign that places high emphasis on promoting national education with the guidance of the interests of students and the people of all nations. The importance of promoting the recognition of teachers' jobs, promoting their professional independence, and highlighting school development at all schools is highlighted. In addition, it is emphasized to deal with the lack of teachers in cooperation with government, rural society, and trade union members, while recently presented measures were made to increase the number of teachers in broad agreement with stakeholders. A respectable president. The bill written in the Ministry of Education and Culture suggests some major changes from the current law. First, there is a new bill that suggests a legal skill for the training and qualifications of the teachers and the school directors. Qualifications provide better guidance than previous laws made in the content of a teacher's education and the conditions for a permission letter. The box also uses as a basis for an internal and external assessment of school quality and for guidance on working development, re-education, and instruction of teachers. In most European countries, the ability frames for teaching at a basic and high school level are expressed by the authorities of education. Therefore, legalization of skills in Iceland is in harmony with international development. Second, instead of three teacher's permission letters, one for each school level, there will be one permission letter issued for teaching that includes confirmation of public and specialized knowledge, skill and ability to teach. One permission notes recognition of the teachers' work, abilities, and professions of teachers, and their professional independence. A law on one permission letter is thus intended to resolve a certain defect in the current law, which points to the position of a teacher who has received a permission to teach at a certain school level and has been employed in teaching class. Third, the bill is suggested to establish a teacher's council that will cooperate with teachers and school directors' issues and their development in work. Previously, there have been active collaborators and school directors on the work development of teachers and teachers, but a new teacher's Council will have a more varied field of work. That, in fact, is the case. to provide advice and guidance on the development and implementation of the letter of skill and the teacher's work development with international developments in mind. Fourthly, the bill is suggested to evaluate applications for permission and their publishing from the Education and Culture Ministers to the Institute of Education, while it will continue to be permitted to assign permission to the higher schools responsible for the education of teachers to the teachers to whom they graduate. It is also suggested that the National Institute of Education for Counselling in Basic and High Schools. It is assumed that there will be one parole committee instead of two priors. These changes are thought to result in increased efficiency, more professionality in the administration of licences and contribute to the greater security of citizens who, by the change, are concerned with the decision to give access to educational and cultural licences. A respectable president. It is expected that this bill will be passed on by the law to a value on July 1, 2019. From the same time, law on education and counseling of teachers and school directors runs out in high school, elementary school, and high school, No. 87/2008. As regards a proposal for a draft of values, it is suggested that students enrolled in a teacher's school class from 2020 to 2021 should graduate from courses planned by the bill. At the same time, colleges offering instruction rights should be guided by the interests of teachers who started to study for the entitlement of the law and allow them to graduate from the course they were studying in whenever possible. Previously published permission slips for education in play, elementary or higher schools will meet the conditions of this law for a licence under this law by specialization at the level of school that their previous education rights took place. The above changes are all part of the process of paying for the wide variety of teachers'development, the flow of teachers between schools, and their increased safety. In addition, expectations that change will increase the likelihood that the teachers'work will be more valuable than today, and teachers will become more multiplicity, where educated people with vast experience and education will go to the teachers'work and acquire educational rights. Icelandic education systems must prepare students of this country for life and work in ever - changing society and provide equal opportunities for education. High - level teachers are essential to the fulfillment of that vision. A respectable president. I expect the case to be followed by this discussion referred to a second issue. ... andwhat. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u39	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story and for the presentation of the case, which has been none of the factors involved in the fact that it has been submitted here. There are two things I want to do. Minister to go. First, it is the regulations of the 19th chapter. that all older permission will be spontaneous but with certain differentiation. Has the Ministry been examined any other way of doing this? We know that despite the fact that today, and perhaps for the past few years, teaching is relatively similar or similar between different schools, it was not always that way. Whether a person who is over 20 years of age studying one of his special skills is simply a suitable person to get the right to teach at all school points or if he simply needs to gain new skills or re-education so that he can begin teaching at the second degree at that point. I understand the bill so that the fittest will always be hired and there may be no need to hire the individual, but like the highest level. A minister is aware of this often, so not many applicants are about teachers' positions. School directors in certain places may find it difficult to deny themselves about a teacher if they offer even if they are unsure about their education. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u40	Wait a minute. Councilmen to respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u41	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question of whether other routes have been considered. I'd like to first note that this bill is being employed in a very extensive partnership with the university, the teacher presidents, and the Union of Icelandic rural society. The school director advertises certain skills. Hv. A senator may have noticed that when we review the bill, it is first defined a skill and the ability of the person to teach at the school level. I have this dream that in Icelandic school, there will be more people who apply for positions, both teaching positions and school manager positions. Achieving this process is increasing flexibility, increasing the possibility of working development. A respectable president. When you ask the minister of education in other countries who are considered to be with a so - called advanced education system, all the ministers focus on the fact that the teacher's work development is important, that they develop in order to be in the place they want. This bill is clearly a factor in this process, and I am convinced that it will be a success for an Icelandic school job.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u42	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I have to admit, I'm not entirely convinced, but I suppose that's what I'm doing. A top-of-the-art Board of Education will take a closer look. Still, I am more concerned about other things that have only been in the community discussion after the bill came out. There have been comments, and some of the serious ones, from the teacher's organization, and perhaps more from individual teachers at different schools on whether this is the wisest step to take now or whether it should be a longer lead-in period than expected in the bill. I'd like a second answer to the highest. Ministers to whether it considers the time given for the execution of the year - do I not rightly assume that it is on July 1, 2018, which may be only a few months, or even a few weeks, from the approved bill? - enough for the agencies of the Ministry and the schools in the country to re-create and change the environment?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u43	A respectable president. I think it is very important to discuss school matters in Iceland that we face up to our standards. For one thing, elimination from the teachers' class is very high. Second, after the teacher's program was extended, unfortunately, there was a complete failure to attend the teacher's school. Attendance only increased from 2009 to2010, but there is still a great need for teachers. We've appreciated it, and that's why we've introduced measures to support recruitment, which I say is the first stage of that journey. We presented measures that all aim to increase our interest, increasing our interest in all of us in the importance of our teachers in the community. Teaching is the most important work because it lays the foundation for all other community activities. What I think we'll see is further expertise because we have a larger group that can apply for positions. It produces an incentive for a person to add to a specialization or study by means of the bill. Hv. A senator asked if the time frame was possibly narrow. We took this tour with the guide we put our arms around it and the law taking value from the circumstances we live in. I suppose the senators saw the news that came from Iceland's Hausp today, where we see an even further increase in the number of justified teachers. That's why I say, a respectable president, it's very urgent and very timely.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u44	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the history of this case, I believe, is very good. It is long time for us to do something about promoting a teacher's education. I remember when I was working here two years ago as a senator that a university conference on the condition that was developing in teachers' affairs. There was striking information that less than half of the graduates worked as teachers. It told me that it was extremely important to do something about it, and I welcome the best plans. The Minister of Education is working on these days and the government. I don't know if I'm allowed to praise a lot of the government because I'm in a smaller part than I am celebrating this. [[Up front.]] The importance of good education does not have to be varied. A powerful school with well - educated teachers at all school points is the absolute basis for this, as a minister mentioned earlier, that children, youths, and so the common citizen can acquire knowledge, skill, and education. So I welcome this bill and hope that the beginning of the teaching class in the country will lead to an even greater and better education in the country. The question is, Can we Icelanders say that we are a well - educated people? There are no doubt many conflicting views on this matter. However, in his book State and logic, Dr. Páll wrote the heitinn title Skúlason, former head of the University of Iceland, that the claim should, perhaps, be made. not fully supported. There a scholar observed the national education for some four decades. He believed that as a nation, we had the tendency to place far more emphasis on the educational program than, as he said, to neglect the education that attracts the development of our students' thinking and understanding the values that human society demands. As a teacher of the winter, I conducted an informal survey among high school students, four of the best years of my life. The study involved asking students if they could define for me the terms democracies, tolerance, love, the Christian heritage of Icelandic culture, equality, democratic cooperation, responsibility, compassion, reconciliation, and respect. Is it best to say that less than ten of the 200 students surveyed could explain the meaning of these terms and not all of them? This surprised me, especially in view of the first part of Section 2. Basic law school, which is the object of the law, reads like this, by permission of the President: To promote the general development of all students and their participation in a democratic society that is constantly developing, the work of basic schools, in cooperation with their homes, is to promote the general development of all students. The practice of basic schools will be motivated by tolerance and love, the Christian heritage of Icelandic culture, equality, democratic cooperation, responsibility, compassion, acquiesces, and respect for human worth. This conclusion made me think that perhaps a pot was broken in terms of achieving the natural goals of the elementary school and reaching the conclusion that Dr. Páll, named Skúlason, might have been the sort of education of children in our basic schools at the expense of education. Guðmundur Finnbogason, the great scholar, described an education in his book Democratic Education in this way, with permission of presidents: ▪ Each person's culture must be valued by his qualifications for living and working in human society, living, and working so that each day his life will be worth more to himself and to others. Now, over a century later, these words are to be a guide that we follow when the nation's educational language is discussed, a discussion that is to take place constantly in the age of its complexity and its high speeds of modern society. Our education system is to be returned to the society of persons who are willing to do their best to participate in society and consumption, individuals who are willing to build a rich culture, tolerance, respect, a caring civil sense, a powerful career, and innovation in all things. In his book Respect and Care of the 21st Century, Sigrún, a daughter of the Aðalbjarnardóttir century C.E., by permission of presidents, states that a civil awareness is really a matter of loyalty to moral and political values in the interests of the community. This tells me how important it is for us as a nation to have the goals of true education achieved. Well - educated and broad - minded teachers at all school levels are key humans in achieving these goals. The Austrian philosopher Rudolf Steiner, who was highly educated and lived many years ago, said of the role and importance of teachers, by permission of presidents: ▪ You will not become a good teacher if you focus solely on what you do but on what you are and what you are. You see, your teaching work is not about how good your teaching plan is but about what a person you are. I only agree with the highest. Minister of Education, hoping that this bill will be well established and discussed in the General Education and Education Committee and will be approved as the Supreme Director. A minister earlier said that the teachers'work is of utmost importance to us in the community. Without a doubt, this is one of the most important jobs in society. I myself was a trained teacher, so lucky to graduate 2011, so I didn't have to go into the prolongation. Again, I say that a good teacher at school can be a key person in molding the future of our children, thus building up a good, honest, and reasonable society in which we take good care of one another.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u45	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers also for the discussion of this important matter that we know has been received indiscriminately, I think it is safe to say. I have personally had conversations with people, especially at high school and university, who have had more opinions on this than the people I've met especially at high school. My main concern is that teachers are growing so fast in high school because they are so much better paid, so that they will continue missing school. That was the concern that people felt to me, as well as, of course, that the ability they had to teach at different schools would not be there. That is why I have to say that what I've been rolling through in the language of today makes me hope that we will reach a reasonable conclusion. The qualifications that I think are extremely important to define where you are qualified to teach - for certainly the goals are very different when you sit in school and learn to teach. If you set aside your preschool teacher, you are thinking about working at that school, not necessarily in high school. It was the worry people put up with me, at least that playschool teachers were suddenly just attending high school and what a school principal should do in the country and have no choice if the nursery teacher was the only candidate who had rights, etc. People are concerned about such things, and of course we need to answer them. That's what we do with our work and the reviews that will come to the General and Education Committee thereafter. It is quite true that the formation of the flow has not been made - much has been said of a flow between preschool and junior school, that it should be easier for students to start earlier, even in elementary school, or that there should be more communication, that they should be able to go between elementary school and high school without some particular matter of age, that he is not necessarily the thing that matters there. The discussion with the teachers has somehow been more difficult and tighter in this regard. I like the first thing I've seen before, that's why I like the first thing I'm supposed to do. trying to define the ability that people need to be able to teach at each school level for themselves, that they don't have to start at the beginning, but they can go ahead in some type of development. It certainly does not help, as we have discussed. We hear a lot about pressures and reports of coldness, especially in this class, and in high school it is extremely common, so there is a need to respond. Like what? A senator mentioned, who spoke before me, is not normal that so many who have learned to teach are not doing their job, whether it is for the pay or the equipment or what it is now. As soon as we say that these are the most important jobs that prepare our future to deal with what they have to deal with, whether it is the fourth industrial revolution or just life and life in general, we need to be reasonable when it comes to circumstances and wages. It was interesting when the Industrial Association came to a panel meeting this morning and gave financial reviews. It stated that 70% of the students in Finland are selected for training. We've talked a lot about training and the emphasis on it. So I found their explanation of this great interest in it interesting, even though they did not have it all in their hands, the explanation for some part was that there was more conversation between school stairs, the conversation of the mine started earlier, and maybe more than what we know. I also rejoice what is supposed to be, that the fifth year will be a bit of a candidate year. I think it's very attractive and important. I remember myself because I was an adult at this school and was so lionbed, right because of lack of teachers, my country club saw a way of supporting me, so I didn't have no pay while I was working. But I think this is very important about attracting teachers to this education. I'd like to ask you two questions, Minister may only take it together in the rest: On the one hand, I'd like to ask about the criticism that was presented during the bill's consultations. It says that in the final version of the bill, they were endeavoring to consider key comments. What were they? I'm only asking a minister to review what was the most important of what was taken into consideration. Another question I'd like to ask, because I don't quite understand this education. We're talking about three letters of permission, and I've been thinking, " acting school, elementary school, high school. Then, on page 19. 12 Talk about a music teacher, that if I get it correctly, they get the same right one. Does that mean they get the right to a candidate's wound? Will the same be true of their education, or will it remain the same? It also speaks of a first, second, and third stage of skill, if a minister could explain only if he could enter all the schools. Can they do so even now, or is this anything beyond what they receive today? You know that there is a music lesson in school. In my homework, it's a art track that has been taught music. It is not unusual for a music school teacher to be there. But I wondered, " Do I get the exact same rights? ' Somehow I have that feeling -- I don't know their study, but there may be something different built up about either professional or other such, so it would be interesting if a minister could come into it. Like I say, it's 5th. that they fall under the values of this bill because the main study record of music school corresponds to these steps. However, I do not fully agree that professional knowledge and education are involved as well as professional knowledge and teaching, but there are probably some explanations. I'm glad this bill is done. To me, the fear I experienced during my conversations with people in this class, the teachers'class, should be much smaller. I think it'll be interesting to see if the reaction will be different now that we've seen it. I really hope that the bill will succeed in the spring and then with the change that needs to be made if there are any.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u46	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you very much. Minister for putting up this bill and for her very good speech earlier. I have to say, I'm just really excited about this case. I think this is a great opportunity, and I'm actually saying that I would even want to go further. But all right, I'll also accept that we sometimes have to take a few steps in the direction. I just agree with a minister how important it is to build the foundation for the teachers' profession and the teacher's development. I would also like to think that having a variety of experience is so important for the workplace, the schools. I think most companies today want the exact variety. It's not just about sex, it's also about age, and it's also with education. I was in Mousfellstown for a long time, and I know that we were with the first when we started experimenting with so - called five - year divisions, which were preschooled at the elementary schools, and I remember how both nursery teachers and elementary - school teachers were pleased with our experiment, as well as our parents and children. I remember a discussion between these professionals about what they were learning from one another and how important it would be for the principal to see the nursery teacher working on the way he teaches through play and then vice versa. Then our experience in Mosfellstown developed, and I know that many rural societies and many schools have started to do this. So there was a school that is both a school and a elementary school, the youngest in high school, called the University of Grika. I know it's gone very well too. I met the assistant principal of that school the other day on the road, and we spoke. She was describing the importance of a variety of employees. It is a school that is an interesting form of teaching and a magnificent building designed around teaching methods and other things. As a result, they have also been so fortunate, talking about it as the highest. A minister came in, that equipment is important, and the environment in which people are working, that many apply. Then perhaps there is where I said I wanted to go even further, i.e. that the recognition and security of those who have a university test may not have the right to teach. Being with a cross-cutting team of well - educated, experienced teachers, schoolteachers, elementary school teachers, even psychologists, coaches, naturalists - we could go on forever. I think there's a lot of money in it when schools like other institutions or companies have this wide variety of fleas. Then I will not minimize the importance of most of my training and parenting. I think this is exactly the answer to the changing environment in which we work, and that's why I'm glad that this bill has been submitted, and I think it's a good thing. Even though I haven't examined it yet, I have, like, more dogs. Councilmen who have spoken here are aware of the report on the reviews that came into play on the confidentiality problem. It is only natural to suggest that there are some changes in anxiety and fear for their professions and their rights and all kinds of cases that might arise, but I think this is a big improvement. I have faith that this would be a great improvement for us and that it would encourage the committee to take it in a positive way. V.E.G. One minister mentioned a report in the Haust practice today that described an eighth teacher without the correctness of teaching in the fall of 2018. We do not know what else to study these teachers without teaching rights. It may well be that while many of these fine employees do not have the right to teach, they are just very good at what they do, and I do not doubt that most people do. It struck me, too, in this story, and that is, as it were, nothing new, but something we know very well, that decrease in men in class. I speak a lot about sexual equality, and there's a lot of evidence that companies and communities that use both sex powers are simply better, so I have to admit that it's a lot of concern to me, a respectable president, how few men seem to attend the classroom and school classes. At the same time, I hope all the operations in this direction are on the verge of increasing the variety of schools in terms of the development of the job, and I'm specifically referring to gender in this regard. I also see in numbers on the Habitat website that it is not only in a number of teachers but also in a number of former school directors - if I read a number of men - if I read them correctly, I think that around 2006 there were men and women who did school directors' jobs just as bad as men. We fight for this hall, a respectable president, to have more women in the management business because it is usually so that if a woman is in the highest command, they also increase in intermediate positions. I'm just the same worry, though it's wrong with our teaching institutions and our schools and the highest priority. A minister to take special care of these materials. I also settled in this fine report that there was no more than high school students with foreign language. I know it's the highest. A minister has spoken extensively about these matters and how we deal with individuals, with children in our schools, on their terms. There are constantly more people who are of a foreign background who are bilingual or have to take Icelandic language as a second or even a third language. They need help to make use of the opportunities offered in Icelandic society in the future. Then I began to consider, a respectable president, the rights of teachers of a foreign background. In the 10th. The bill deals with the rights of a state obtained in the EEA or in the Member States of EFTA, and it says that the Ministry of Education confirmed permission to use the job title teacher according to a citizen's application by a state of state in the European Economic Area (EEC) or the EBE countries, it stands here. Of course, certain proof and recognition must be provided in this respect. If the highest. A minister comes up for a talk afterwards and has some more information on whether we know anything about how many teachers are working here from the other EEA countries, I'd also like to point out that here are Faeroe Islands in particular but because I'm in the Western National Council, and we love both the Faeroe Islands and Greenland, which are neither part of the EEA territory, I wonder if there's any reason why we're knocking Greenland off this article. I don't think I have it any further. As I said before, I'm very excited about this bill and I think we're on a good road trip. I encourage it with such changes as others that we carefully monitor evolution, whether we are achieving the goals we have set for ourselves. This is shown in the report that we, for example, are fine. I haven't quite reached the goals we set for ourselves - I was going to start telling the new elementary school laws because they were so long called them, but they're not new because they're ten years old. There is good reason to be constantly on the watch for this and, as I say, if my experience is good, I also feel that the work of security and rights of staff with a different college background than education in our school systems can be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. Congress members for their comments on this important matter. Hv. paritaprevir When Páll Valur Björnsson wrote on the bill, I would like to quote John Stuart Mill, where he says, by permission of a president: ▪ All the advancements of education equally, since education sells all individuals under the same influence, gives them access to the same wealth of knowledge and view. That was what he wrote in his original English language, and it certainly is true to this day. I want to go over two things and then answer a few questions. Senators. Yesterday, the Ministers of Education from all the northern countries found it very interesting, nice and informative. Two things stand out, one of the great educational needs of every country in the north, outside Finland. For instance, Sweden will be missing in the next ten years, unless drastic measures are taken, 82,000 teachers. Sweden is in huge trouble. Norwegians face a similar problem, with a figure of 32,000 teachers. I haven't put up our percentages yet. It is quite remarkable, though, that this situation has come up in such well - being countries. Hence, it is imperative that we go for the first time out of character, in the year 2019, to say that we know the situation, and that we are not going to be governments who are out of action. We're going to take some action in a lot of places. This bill is one part of it. The next thing I'd like to mention from a meeting of my fellow minister is the elimination to a high school level. That's where we stand completely out as Icelanders. This is the way that students don't begin their deduction during the first year of high school. There is a tendency, and we can see how a student's career is and what challenges those students face. Hence, to help teachers to understand what causes, the intervening and flexibility between school ladders is a very important factor. How can we help, help, and encourage our students more and more? So we're talking about the different degrees of school at the high school, a measurement called MARRIAGE. You will find very quickly how your children will benefit from studying the Bible. This is an amazing correlation between what comes out of that test and how they do it later. Therefore, I have strong faith in early intervention, starting right away to help and cherish students. Now I've talked about three degrees at a time and showed the importance of being informed about the challenges we face. Tonight it has been shown that there have been concerns about an experienced mother. What we did when we were winning the bill is that we took into account almost all the comments we received and adjusted our skills accordingly. I believe that cooperation has provided even better bill and more satisfaction. Of course, when such changes are going on, there are always some doubts, but I am convinced that when the law takes effect, we will see this flexibility. We need to remember that the situation is serious. It will not be overlooked. I also support myself with what we now have, shorter study, especially with regard to the academic study at high school, that there will be greater mobility between high school and high school. The news we received from Hauspú today is a little perfunctory. It wasn't planned by the minister here, but it was interesting to have them news today when I recommend this bill to employees who teach without the teaching rights constantly. Some people have permission letters at high school but are teaching at the elementary school, but the bill will make us see a reduction in this. I am optimistic about that aspect. Another factor mentioned was the music teacher. We are increasing their rights, but they become like others under a certain stage of skill, and we have had a very good response from music teachers. I'd like to make it, because I mentioned the elimination, that the percentage of people enrolled in Iceland's work and occupational studies, and the rest of the book studies are very different from those in the North countries. This is about 70% of the study. I'd like to state that I'm very into academic studies, but I can't as a minister of education overlook the fact that here is much more. I'm afraid to mention the number, the proportion of which is more than just to form in Norway and in other countries. Of course, all the actions we are going to take are that more people will find themselves in school and that we will offer lessons that are suitable for our young ones. The offer at high school is very high, but it is not enough for our people to learn what is available. There must be a powerful choice in the arts and engineering of all schools, so that our children will be aware of where they are interested. Not only is such a choice needed; parents need to be informed about it. Job's life also needs to be diligent to introduce to young people what opportunities are open to them. These proportions need to be more similar to what we see in Europe, where the proportions are very different. A respectable president. One permit slip has been mentioned, which has been tried elsewhere. In many lands, there is an overlap between teachers who teach between schools, such as Norway, Finland, and Canada. The output in question, which I have measured in this bill, is not very different from them and is intended to achieve the flexibility in the 2008 Law. The flexibility and flow of teachers between school ladders are desirable to reduce school levels, improve safety, and encourage career development, leading to increased quality of school activities. The idea that the bill is based on rhymes with what most countries in OECD base their education on. In fact, this is a new thought in Icelandic school, but the models are elsewhere. Another factor we are considering is preparing the school system for the challenges of the fourth industrial revolution, such as the automation. We will see that students study the Bible more fully. I will encourage it because I think it increases creation and that we will then get individuals who will be more solution. When the Economic and Development Organization considers the most desirable skills, it is just a solution to the thinking, innovation, that the relevant members are good in their relationships. I believe that if we get into our system, teachers who can stay at different levels of school, it will help with this. Teachers need to understand the key factors that depend on the student's being at greater risk of elimination. A respectable president. Since the elimination process is quite thoughtful, I would like to point out that the main thing that keeps young people from falling apart later in life is that they pursue higher education. Those who do not attend high school or do not engage in secular work are far more likely to experience severe distress and such. Now that we're looking at this group specifically at the Ministry of Education and Culture, we can see that the best prevention is that our children and young people find a proper study. I'd like to finally mention the key elements of the bill. First, it is an increasing flexibility. Second, this will increase all the teacher's career development. Third, it is likely to increase work security due to flexibility. Fourth, we see the increase in number of teachers. Fifth, we feel that it will increase and focus on the importance of teaching at all school levels. Finally, this will also contribute to improved administrative management because for the granting of licences and the granting of contributions to elementary school and high school to counsel guides, there are certain correctities not to be overlooked, which involve the decision of the Ministry of Education to the Minister. So we've explained the administration to the bill better. A respectable president. It will be exciting to see what reviews and comments are made to the General and Education Committee. I can assure the United Nations that the bill has been very active. We have considered comments that have been received. I agree with what. Councilmen who say that exciting times lie ahead in education and exciting challenges. We're supposed to take them more into their arms and give them more weight in the public talk. What is characteristic of highly educated nations is not merely a matter of priorities in education but of high education. What's the development? What are the challenges, and what are the benefits? As I said at the outset, quoting the permission of the president of John Stuart Mill, it is so that education and the advancement of this one would be equal. I believe that in the times we live in, in a world of technological changes, the need never been greater in order to facilitate an equation is that everyone has the equal opportunity to learn.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u48	Mr. President. I would recommend a bill to legalise the state accountant's law on the changing of the state accountant's law and revise state bills, no. 46/2016. The bill, along with all the members of the Committee for Presidency of the II Parliament, all of which appear to be the bill, along with the audiences of the Forests and the Flocks of the People. Implementation of this means that national accountants' surveillance, in particular government surveillance, will be made more clear, in particular, to provide national accountants with access to information from public organisations and third, to harmonise document reviews with the WHO and other institutions of the General Assembly, i.e. Agent of the Generals. The bill consists of the law, the clear recovery of specific work unit within the National Re-examination Centre, which will continue to supervise the State's revenue according to the state's strategy and investigate its various revenue systems. It is important that the setting of this type of monitoring work is clear and, therefore, in view of the experience in the implementation of the current law, some changes are proposed. First of all, the definition of what it means to be a member of a government accountant to monitor the state's earnings in an parallel way and it is clearly recommended to consider the role of the Government Accounting Board on financial Accounting and the administrative decision. The 2nd issue, 1st. Section 3. Current Track No. The role of the State accountant, 46/2016, and a review of the State Account, is found to include the role of the State accountant. monitoring the government's income, but in other respects, this is not as clear or detailed as any of the main projects of the office. A government accountant has now intended to place increased emphasis on this role with a special work unit within the office and is pleased to inform that in a financial program now in the treatment of a member of the Senate committee, capital rights are expected to promote the office in this respect. This will include monitoring. to examine the grounds of the death of taxpayers, reviewing the pressures of public taxes and other taxes, reviewing and investigating the grounds of sectoral organisations, and monitoring that the institutions in charge are collected in accordance with law, and observing the collection of public taxes and taxes. Of course, this is not the case with government decision making or getting involved in the tax industry as such. Rather, it is monitored and monitored. Second, the bill specifically includes access of a government accountant to public and financial information systems. In current laws, this approach is not made clearly as if it were originally planned by the current law, but it has also been brought about by an increasing emphasis on income management, this approach is urgent, and it is also necessary to strengthen wording in the time of the electronic databases, which are increasingly relevant. It's about access to a variety of public records such as real estate records, driving records, air travel logs, national records, ship logs, etc. and that there is clear access to this unequivocal access and the access without charge. Of course, we cannot cope with the fact that such data as this is essential for the work have to be taken by an important observer. At the same time, it is suggested that the permission of a government accountant to improve the accounting of third parties in terms of financial payment or reimbursement. This is increasingly important. This may include, for example, the following: reimbursement of the cost of film making or reimbursement of cost of research and development in which substantial funds change when the state repays considerable sums of such costs. Third, it is taken into account that the office's documenting, i.e. State accountant, should follow the same procedure as the General and local agent of the Generals. A code on public archives does not refer to the General and agent. True, a political review is not considered to be a related party at the same time. 14th par. Their law, but it is reasonable to assume beyond doubt that the position of the State Accounting should in this respect be comparable to the Council and its agent. For a Federal Review, the entire archive of the office is preserved since 1985, i.e. all the time that the office has heard under the Council. This is not the case with a change but the legal situation is clear. That is why it is suggested that the position of a state accountant in terms of filing be the same as the Trustee of the Generals, since the positions of the office were comparable in many respects. Not only do they work under the cover of the General Assembly but they do not. Finally, Mr. President, two places are suggested updates on reference to law, i.e. that, instead of reference to earlier laws on the State's economy, there is a reference to public financial laws. I've, Mr. President, finished explaining the main elements of the bill and its main indicators. I suggest that the case will go on to the Commission and the monitoring committee following this discussion and establish the hopes that the bill will become a law for the spring where it is clear that in preparation it is by the state accountant to promote the work, particularly with regard to the income management programme.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u49	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. State accounts are made up of income and expenditures and balance accounts in which property and debt are made. In Comb 4. The law of the State accountant makes it clear that the head of the head of the bank is reevaluated by the state accountant and the annual accounts of the funds and the annual accounts of his/her partner and partnerships in which the State owns half or more. Therefore, a member of the Court's staff is required to observe all government incomes, internal surveillance of their survival, how they will be created, and how they will be preserved. This calls for a further explanation of why these legal adjustments are considered necessary, since this is, whether it is always the role of a state accountant and the nature of his work to keep track of government income. Money can be revised only as soon as it is considered the basis for their development and for its systems that keep their pressures, their registrations, their collections, and their preservations. The financial agenda makes it clear that the government's budget is estimated to be as high each year, which shows the importance of paying as much as it earns. That's why I want thoughts at once. The senator's opinion of why the bill is less emphasis on government surveillance, on their grounds and on their approval system prior to payment or prior to accounting and paying.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u50	I suppose I could say that the answer is that there is something that the laws that are present today are satisfactory in this regard. But when you look at this better, without telling me that I'm being educated in this, you can see that the distribution of the State Reviewer's role in the management department is much weaker in the current law. This is expressed primarily in 1 mg. Section 3. which I mentioned, that the role of a state accountant is, among other things, to monitor income, but in other respects, perhaps the lack of the clarity of their rules. That's what this means to make things right. However, there are very detailed regulations on the role of Kingdom Accounting in both financial reexamination, i.e. they also charge as such, and administrative reviews when using it, but what is actually being done is taking the credit factor and making it closer to being paralleled with this or so I'll read it. This is a state accountant himself, who, of course, has taken much initiative in winning this bill better off to answer. But he doesn't have the freedom to speak at the council, so I recommend it to him. It will be considered more carefully by a panel of members who feel that there is a reason to sharpen any other law on the way, which would be on the side of the remuneration, as it were. A senator mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u51	Mr. President. Thank you. A candidate for a clear answer may ask, " Why is the role of a government accountant not particularly important in the surveillance of the property of the State?'Since new laws on government finance have begun to attribute all the valuable assets previously legalized. The complex IPSAS standard can be considered in this context. Also, the question can be asked. A senator why it is not considered important in the bill to observe the registration of debt and their worth assessment by a state accountant and why these factors are not also highlighted in the bill. Maybe it's just the best, like what? A member of the council said that there will be a review on the job of the committee, whether it is needed. Otherwise, it would be good to have meditation at the same time. A senator of the valuable assets and property, how they are moved, and as I mentioned, the registering of debt.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-10-93.u52	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. These are all excellent thoughts, and I agree that there may well be a reason to cross it, but those who developed the bill felt that they were taking up that point that it was most urgent to deal with the laws of state accountants today. In fact, we have relatively new and, in my opinion, a good law from 2016 regarding our office. Its authority is strong, it has a role, a government accountant has a perfectly defined role, including official financial legislation. They are now cited, rather than being referred to earlier laws on government income. I also pretend to remember correctly that a state accountant has a clear role in monitoring the stations and that this is done in the right way. I remember this for two reasons, because when we were preparing a proposal for the General Assembly to vote for a new government accountant, it was one of the things that was under the definition of the most qualified candidates, that a state accountant has a vital role to play. This includes, of course, the possession, their prices, their debts, and their handling. So, in fact, this is the reason why the government account was signed in advance or not established by routine means this time, because we're in the induction process of this, and it'll probably take some time to get through it all at the endpoint. That is where the office of the State Accounting is of great importance, to be strong in this regard. Again, regarding the main purpose of the bill on the income control, I deeply agree with the emphasis on strengthening it from the office. There is evidence to suggest that they are effective, e.g. keeping track of the types of tax revenues so that there is never something left to be collected unless necessary.
