ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u1	At a meeting of the State Department on September 13, 2019, Sigríður On. Andersen was elected chairman of the Committee. At yesterday's Environment and Transport Committee, September 18, 2019, Bergþór Ólason was elected chairman of the Committee, Jón Gunnarsson I, vice president and Deputy Director Ari Trausti Guðmundsson II.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u2	In contrast with Article 16, the president has been informed about changes in human affairs within the committees of the council. Congress. Þórunn Egilsdóttir will be the head of the General and Education Committee instead of Willum Þór Þórsson. These changes will be considered approved without a vote if they do not object.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u3	To answer, financial and economic ministers, tourism, industrial and innovation ministers, marine and agricultural ministers, environmental and resource ministers, and transport and local government ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u4	Mr. President. Now the presentation has been made for at least some local government managers have some huge plans for transport projects and new reimbursement, a new taxation to cope with their plans. There has been no room to introduce this to members of the council, but it seems that the plan should include a new payment for just going through the city, where people drive through the streets where they have already paid their taxes on the cars they've already paid and paying their various expenses to the State, and they use the fuel they've bought with the most diverse costs they've already paid on fuel to survive transport. I'm not gonna ask the highest. Minister to put out their plans here. But hopefully they will be introduced as soon as possible to members of the council. I simply want to ask the highest. Secretary of the budget: can be the highest. A minister thinks that people will be paid, additional fees, for driving through the road of the capital area? And second, can the highest. One minister thought that such reimbursement would refer to a phenomenon called a city line, and no one seems to have an idea of what will eventually cost or what will come to be? All that is clear is that it will press even more traffic in the capital area. These are two questions, Mr. President. The highest. A minister of finance thought that such a price will be paid, a price to drive through the road of the capital area, and that it will run into this city phenomenon?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u5	A respectable president. I see not only that we could record new fees but that we are forced to make a complete difference in the amount of automobiles, fuel, and transportation in the country. It's because of the energy exchange. Last year we gave 3 billion on a merit tax to get environmentally friendly cars. We don't take shorts from electric cars. We don't take any valuable tax from the electric car if it's under certain price prices and if it's expensive, we'll give it a lot of credit. These cars go through the streets without saying anything because they never get on the pump. The number is increasing, and the number is increasing rapidly, and the number is growing in the world in Iceland, environmentally friendly cars and electricity cars. This calls for a completely new thought about how we will build the pay system. The average export charge of an imported car goes down quickly because of the changes we have already introduced. So, yes, I can see that people in the future will pay more for the use of the road system and they will pay much less for getting a car, getting over a car, and they'll be going through the pump less often, and less often, they'll pay for fuel. We need to introduce a completely new thought. The question is: Will the State be partial support at the city line? In the last two governments, we have received a challenge from every local community in the capital area to have a conversation about paying more for public transportation. We've been in that conversation, and there's no news about it. It is a new river of transportation through the capital area, where we can see that public transportation can be given priority. These roads need to be built, but they can also pass through, as if I were, by taxi cars, and even by people who come together in a car, i.e. where there may be three or more in the same vehicle. This should be paid for traffic. [[The president calls.]] The key point is the agreement on large structure of transport in the capital area to facilitate traffic.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u6	Mr. President. First of all, the last item as the highest. Minister mentioned, it was about paying for traffic. It's probably news for colleagues at the highest. Minister of the mayor, i.e. The more part of it, the main point is that the car needs to be squeezed, and it has actually appeared in recent years. The city line is designed to remove space from cars in such a way that it is not talking about a new road, it is not talking about a swimming path; it is not to mention measures that would actually be meant to pay for transportation but, contrary to continuing to narrow down and to punish people so specifically for sitting down with some sort of new fees. I've heard the highest. A minister expresses his concern that the owners of electric cars will not pay enough in due time. But if this is part of the plan to let the owners of an electric car pay more, is it not reasonable for another person to counter or become another further charge by the state, because this is being introduced now, and it seems to be at hand? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u7	A respectable president. In terms of the currency, we are, in effect, standing in the middle of it. We're going to make a complete review of the government's remunerations on this subject. In dealing with rural areas in the capital area, we simply refer them to the future in exactly how these things will be implemented. It's a trend that we can't overlook and when it's dark. A senator describes concern that the total pay of vehicles will increase as I help him that we should not have to increase the price of vehicles to go through this change. Nor can we sit by when the income stocks are falling, when they give as much as they really do. I just mentioned an example from last year's worth-to-be-important tax, but we're also doing this for the transport costs, and then we're experiencing that, of course, fuel expenditures are as future income stocks to be yielding. [[The president calls.]] I don't think it's an enormous threat. I see it as an enormous opportunity for our community, that we stopped buying energy from other countries to drive a transportation device in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u8	A respectable president. I want to direct you to the highest level. Secretary of finance. ASI was beginning to conclude about a new lifetime contract and what the government is going to do about changing taxes. It says, by permission of the President: In recent years, taxpayers, who have more and more taxpaying than they have been paid, followed last spring's collective contracts, promised reforms in the tax system to make more money and reverse this ill - treatment development. The failure to fully fulfill the promise until the end of my contract period is thus a major disappointment. Salaries, invalids, and elderly people with low incomes do not have time to wait for such a long time when they need a lighter tax burden immediately. The taxes on the minimum rate decrease by 2,900 dollars. month next year, 8,300 k. ... nextyear. Those with 1 million a month reduce by 1.850. in a month next year, and at 3,800 K. ... nextyear. This is 5,650. a tax increase for those with 1 million a month. Does he not agree with me that there is absolutely no need to give such an increase to those who are at the lowest rate? If we take 317,000 bucks. a month's pay for the lowest person's wages today, what's the subject of paying taxes? 55,900 k. Those who were on the lowest salary in 1988 when tax - paying system was not paying taxes, and that is why it is a simple, clear question: Is it not time to stop paying taxes to those with hunger because this wage, 317,000 dollars, translates into 240,000,250,000 dollars??
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u9	A respectable president. Our society is developing. When I arrived at the Ministry of finance in 2013, the lowest rate was less than $200,000. Yet, they have reached 300,000 credits. in no more years, and the taxes on these same people have fallen. We've never had as much tax reduction in the last few years of the income tax system as we've suggested now, and it's tailored to a new tax level to get to those at the bottom of the income ladder. In case of a moment. A senator is coming up here asking me if it would be good to raise taxes on those specifically mentioned, above the averages, e.g. around 1 million, I simply think it's unnecessary. I think the tax burden has never been so well distributed, and it will be distributed after this change has taken effect. Not only do we take dollars but we also take the largest of those at the bottom of the income ladder and we take the largest of the above. Then we're just watching the income tax system. Then, if we add the reformers to the top, the children's relief system, the growth reforms, other support systems and social security, we'll see how much effort we put forth to ensure an equality in the community. In fact, we have made it very effective that no other society will ever be available to us again. This is the big picture. Despite what it was like. A senator says that everything is impossible and that we have an unreasonable tax system will provide labour agreements with social security to guide and other reform systems and the tax system, in the context of the equation, the best results to be found.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u10	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance answers. The simple question is, would I like to raise my taxes to those who are 1 billion? K. reward? No, but why on earth do they have to be lowered? Explain why these individuals need to be lowered. I'm on this pay, I don't have to lower, I don't have to. Why is the decline not taken down to those who truly need it? I ask the minister: "Do you trust him to live on the down payment of the minimum wage, $200,000? " a month? Does he have confidence in that? Does he really think that the people out there who live on this salary give a shit about a percentage or something in these cases? These people don't eat percentages, they just need a dollar to survive, and 230,000 bucks. is about the average of many renters a month. How, on the other hand, are they going to pay rent and live on that reward?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u11	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are required to refer their case to the president or Hall and not to other members of the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u12	A respectable president. My answer is simply in that this is a reasonable tax system that we are suggesting, a reasonable change that will, yes, lower taxes, not just on those at the bottom of the income ladder, but on those who pay the highest taxes. At the time, they will have a minimum of income. However, a senator, just around 1 million, removed the effects of tax changes. The important point is that we examine how we as a community try to support those who have mentioned them. And the answer to that question is no. I wouldn't trust myself to have as little as anyone who has least one hand in hand to live the family I live today, with four children, etc., even though some have left home. That's obvious. But we do not answer opinions about how we can improve our system by just answering that question. We need to examine how the overall system, support systems, tax systems, and other activities we are doing in cooperation with the workforce, are being carried out by the community as a whole. [[The president calls.]] In this context, it is absolutely indistinguishable that we are on the right track.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u13	Mr. President. I'd like to discuss the situation at the U.S. Hospital emergency room at the highest level. Secretary of finance. Now, in the media, one employee after another has reported an emergency call to the government for action and without delay, before a disaster occurs. Now I don't know if it's the highest. A minister has seen something in describing the situation in which patients and staff are invited to emergency departments, but since the minister is holding the wallet, it is vital that he recognizes his responsibility and the potential danger. I left with what. Hanna Katrín Friðriksson's converge in the emergency room yesterday, and it's clear that we will be treated immediately and, according to the staff in a month, yes, before the fall and winter viral flu hit. More than 200 people search in emergency departments each day, and it is not uncommon to find 50 individuals at any given time about the 36 beds there. Having more than 20 people resting in the hallway 24 hours a day, at all ages, in all kinds of situations caused by accidents, by physical and mental illness, by a drug crisis, and by others, makes conditions that arise in the ward, both for patients and for staff. Sometimes there are events where a rapid response must be made, resuscitate or otherwise, and there must be room for staff to perform. It matters seconds. This is the situation, Mr. President. It's the highest power. A minister of responsibility, so I ask: What will the government do to cope now?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u14	A respectable president. I have to say, it's amazing how you're doing. A senator comes here to implement responsibility for the administration of public institutions. In case of a moment. A senator has studied a law on public financial matters - I will allow myself to be referred here to Article 27. and 34,◯36. par. - it's written in the law how we accept responsibility for the management of public institutions. In this council, we are not in the daily business of public institutions, much less health institutions. We have directors at institutions who are in the conversation with the Department of Education. The Ministry of finance is not a part of that conversation. I'm totally out of understanding what's going on. A senator can say here at the Senate Hall: The Acute Department of the Land Hospital is responsible for the minister of finance or finance. In these cases the head of the Agency should alert the Ministry of Justice and submit improvements. The Ministry is required to answer the relevant institution within the stated period of time written on the law. We expect the government and the Ministry to handle serious matters, such as what is discussed here, but that men do not play some political game at a Senate Hall and just raise the responsibility to the Ministry of finance when appropriate. This does not mean that I'm minimizing this position, we listen to what the staff of the Land Hospital is saying, but at the same time we expect those people who are trusted to manage these institutions to respond properly to the law and that those most responsible for the professional activities of these matters are here, not to the secretary of finance who has no business of the institutions of those organizations who hear under the health department to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u15	Mr. President. V.E.G. Minister, let's talk about responsibilities. In such a state, governments taking the money to open their eyes, show up, listen to the local professionals. It is not enough to stand here and cry out that they have no responsibility, that there is an increase in money to the health system, when all of us know that mostly public wages and compensations, buying the wallets, and being built a new national hospital with relative costs, when we know that tourists have made a significant increase in financial resources. When I'm at the highest. A minister allows himself to speak as if he were not responsible and to refer to public financial laws, talking about public financial laws. What does it mean to keep people trapped in the emergency room, where it costs $200,000 a day? at the same time it costs 70,000 bucks. in other divisions? Let's talk about responsibilities, chief. A minister who does not wish to negotiate with nurses so that the current shift pressure is being taken by nurses who make it possible to have a flow problem, making it possible for an emergency hospital to close down. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is your responsibility, the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u16	A respectable president. Hv. A senator comes from behind some ancient form of reasoning that the minister of finance has the power of money. It is the General Assembly that has the legal authority, it is the General Assembly that has decided which funds will be granted to the Hospital, that is, the General Assembly on the application of responsibilities for the performance of health care in Iceland, and the law is absolutely clear that it is the executives of the institution who have the greatest responsibility and responsibility. [[Up front.]] When they fail to handle their legal responsibilities, they have to start a conversation with the Ministry and it is written in the law what to do thereafter. To come up here and only refer to the Ministry of Economics when there's a business problem in individual institutions is an inexpensive politics. It's a failure of politics, and it's a mistake of everything we've put together in the written law on the government. The government is at the General Assembly. The General Assembly has determined the legal resources available to this organisation and the Ministry has to deal with it. [[The president calls.]] The authority's responsibility is great. The responsibility of the Ministry of Economics is to participate in that conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u17	A respectable president. In response from the highest. Minister to ask why. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr during the last session said that the software commonly called Orri is in the stocks of Orcle and the following Advania. It also asks why the code and software are not published publicly according to government policies on free and open software. The answer is that the State does not have the right to Orri. Now there's a lot to say about Orri, and there's quite a lot to say about Orri, but in 2014, a management commission and a surveillance committee came up with a lack of authority. paritaprevir Brynjar the son of Níelsson, and there it appears, by permission of the president: The Commission considers it necessary to prepare for the current implementation of the system and to update the system ahead of time to make practical use of the tips that have been identified and include: Reviewing the possession of the system for which the government has only user access, so that the system and the changes made will become the property of the state that could thereby be used for all organizations without the need to buy access for each person. In that opinion of the time, and the person present also signed this opinion, it was very clear that people had serious doubts that the state was funding a custom-made software that will not end in the government's ownership. Unfortunately, over the years it has seemed like a certain practice, that government agencies need solutions, even customized for their own needs, some software company that is probably fine and fantastic, like Advania, to create that solution, but then the manufacturer still needs the product and the state is attached to the rest of the company, if not to start over again. I find this a great vice in the commercial affairs of public institutions and in the light of what happened in 2014 when Orri, this huge system, was being discussed, I'd like to ask the highest level of questions. Secretary of finance whether he knows that this has been discussed in the Ministry or its institutions since then or if there has been a chance to shape any policies surrounding the use of software for which the government finances production. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u18	A respectable president. I completely agree with what I feel is in my words. A senator, and he specifically mentioned, there is a danger that the State might almost get caught in business with the people who take to develop the software and who are its owners. This means that breaking up in that business and seeking something else can become insurmountable. The reflection and just the other end may be that it can be too heavy for the State to try to build its own software departments and build its own software. Somewhere in between, I think the right thing to do is, as the board of directors brings up and over. A senator referred to, i.e. that the change of the software will become the property of the state and that it has been prepared so that the state is free to do so and has real freedom, not just the freedom of the agreement, but that it is effective to have regular invitations of this service. This is a very important matter of interest. We'll find, for example. ... when we're going to implement digital solutions and increase the production of public service in a digital way how much it's important to make a personal decision but not be stuck in business agreements. To answer that question, I can say what. Senator: Yes, this is discussed in the Ministry of finance. We do not have a suggestion for a future solution, but this is a very important matter. I think it's more important than most people in general realize, even at the council. We need to make decisions that will move us to the future. But to the future, we must ensure a Orri in the state and revise our interests in a new world.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u19	A respectable president. I can't help but rejoice in my efforts. Ministers because it's exactly right. It's also true, which is the highest. A minister says, perhaps there is not much understanding of the general public, or even here at the council, how important this is. There is a fundamental point to consider. When the State buys something specifically designed for the State, it says that it is a house or a car, of course, the state's being able to get any contractor to fix that house or build on it or whatever, and that car. Of course, the same should apply to software. What encouraged me to ask this today is that, throughout the years, I have come to realize that it is a bit of a habit that a software house always suggests that they have the software, but the customer gets permission, he may use it forever and effectively. But then we'll have a problem. Then there's something else to add. Then it's difficult because a software house doesn't want it, or it can't because it's too expensive. I'm the highest. To impress this and hope that soon there will be a policy that will make it clear that when the state produces software, whether in public institutions or in business with a software house, it is the state that has the product of the work that is funded. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u20	A respectable president. I don't have much to add. That's just the right tip for you. Senator, under here are very interests. It's not quite cut and cut, it's not quite simple. We're making a very big deal in this subject. This is a huge service. One of the things we also need to look into is the operation of all these systems. We'll see, for example. that we have performed some kind of data in public service in well over 100 locations throughout the city while much larger nations, such as Danir, have run their data sets in one or two places. This is where I refer to the extent to which economic economic conditions can take place in the formation of a reliable network of information across institutions. Here's why. A senator is primarily talking about software issues and provides helpful tips that we still need to consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u21	Mr. President. I have been somewhat motivated by the lack of communication between this government and the transport of the capital area to the smaller part of the council and by the fact that about half of the members of this region are coming from the very smaller parts, which still have little or no knowledge of what is involved in the metropolitanisation of the capital area. Nearly two weeks ago, plans for significant structure were introduced to the rural communities, and it seemed to be an agreement on this structure, an agreement that had not been introduced to smaller parts, and we criticized. This morning, reports show that there have been new agreements, which have not actually been discussed with the rural communities, but it seems that the results of the treaties of the majority of the parties here are. It is the interpolitical consultation of the administrative body that still chooses not to have any consultation with the less part of the council on this matter. Of course, I wondered, because it seems to be a bit confusing in the treatment of the Parliament: Is this an agreement or an agreement? Will the minority here at the council have any real access to this case when it comes to an agreement with the local community, if it is achieved, and if the government groups agree with themselves on this matter? In view of the very solemn declarations of the government, which may include, I find that this is a remarkable lack of consultation. in its treatise, that for such large plans, major projects that take over many years, even decades, have just a broad cross - study. So I ask the highest. Transporter: Where is this consultation?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of the council wants to review the history of this matter. Working on a transport program that all the members of this hall came to -- most of the people on the environment and transport committee, and as far as I know, the council was waiting for. A senator and his party there and watched carefully - the process has been very open and clear. It discussed a willingness to sit down with the rural areas in the capital area to achieve for the first time the overall vision of what would be needed to solve the traffic knots and the problems in the capital area. Such a group was set up in priors. However, we discussed him several times in this Assembly Hall. All that information has been on the board. Thereafter, a working group was set up for the same authority. It seems that in the six rural communities in the capital area, representatives from all categories are represented, and I know that within all categories, human relations, especially members of that capital, with their local government, have normal relations. There has been no evidence that humans have normal relations. I've thought that we're working this in as open a career as possible. In fact, the person present to be introduced a few days ago. The first people accepted the invitation, but then they saw that a political match could be made for a lack of communication and bilanguage. I took it upon myself; if all the senators would rather participate in a discussion about the income policy and that was probably just a matter of postponing that meeting. But I haven't had time to present this matter to anyone, the kind of work that's going on. [[The president calls.]] It's not over yet. It's running and there's nothing unexpected about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u23	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers trying to make a presentation, but, of course, criticize the timing of their meeting as high as possible. A minister could be well aware that there was just a discussion in the Assembly Hall and was criticized here by a smaller section that wanted to be present at that discussion. I would have liked to attend that meeting, but at the same time at the Senate Hall, I believe that much of the meeting is being presented at the meeting. I think it is fundamental that members of the council should be able to attend such meetings and perform their duties at the council as well. As soon as I express my satisfaction that there is finally some idea that there will be a major transport problem in the capital area and provide sufficient funds, I must criticize the idea that the capital area should pay twice, first of all, the fuel costs intended to finance transport services and, in addition, the costs that will not be paid anywhere else in the country. [[The president calls.]] So I must ask the highest. Minister: Is it correct to understand that this government is updating that the citizens of the capital area should pay double for their transport benefits?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u24	A respectable president. We are doing this work trying to prepare a pivotal meeting that has not been successful for decades. It has not been possible to receive a common vision of the State, the Vega, and the rural society, to solve this knot. We've been working on this in the spirit of co-operation. We put the solutions on the table and we try to find them together. That work is very open and many people have been there. As I mentioned earlier, the delegates from all parties at the council, in rural governments in the capital area, and in virtually every case, they are somewhere in more part, although not absolute. Hv. A senator is trying to develop a further discussion in this chamber, which is often an image discussion, an image - control case, or a fanatical government, a discussion of matters that have not come into its final shape so that he can answer what is in it and what is not. They're making questions about something that's wrong. One senator said that he wanted to learn about himself but then immediately points out what the outcome will be and asks me questions about it. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] Why don't we take the discussion? A senator after we finish this work? [[For example: Yes or no.]] [[The president calls.]] Here we call it: Yes or no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u25	Time's up.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u26	It's in the spirit of image and conflict politics. [[The president calls.]] Let's just make some noise, make some shit, don't do our job, and don't try hard. Where was the message of less willingness and more responsibility?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u27	Further discussion of this must be conducted at other times and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u28	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize individual registrations. The bill was previously transferred to a 149th legislature and is now remanded unchanged. The bill includes an overall review of national and public registration laws, No. 54/1962. The main theme of the bill is what information should be recorded in this important file, national file, how it is recorded, and how it is transmitted. Before I have a review of the bill itself, I think it's time to draw attention to the fact that, first of all, we are at a turning point with the contribution of this bill. With the development, we are completing a review of three main law columns that have to do with the registration of individuals in one way or another. The reexamination began in 2010, but the first stage was reached by an approved bill for law and residence that I recommended at the 148th legislature and was adopted as a law on law and residence, No. 80/2018. Laws on Laws and Penitentiary replaced legal law, No. 21/1990 on the one hand and correct the notifications of residence change, No. 73/1952, on the other hand. Second, I'd like to point out the importance of the record here on the country. National records are the file on which our whole community is built. Whether we consider the tax returns of a state or a community, a reform system, the financial institutions, or the commercial systems of the economy, it plays a key role. That's how important it is that the file is carefully held, making sure that the file is correct and secure. A respectable president. I think it's time to swerve key elements of the bill. Chapter I of the bill explains its objectives, its values, its expressions, its administrations, its personal protection, its information in a national file, etc. It suggests that the goal of the bill is to make it possible to keep a reliable record of individuals, that their registration is correct, so that it provides a sound basis for certain rights and specific responsibilities. It is then the goal of the bill to record information in a national file based on the best available data at any given time. A respectable president. There have been a few decades since the first registration was set up, but we must not forget that such a record may not be celebrated. Thus, as with Icelanders, there is no national record. This can ensure that a person will receive and retain certain rights, but the correct registration can also save the state's capital, such as in the calculation of the improvements. There's two things I'd like to mention before I go to II. section 5 of the bill, that is the protection principle 5. The bill and 6. which will refer to the registration information of a national file. As the people around the world know, new laws on personal protection and the implementation of personal information were adopted at the General Assembly in the summer of 2018. It can be said that certain cognitive awakenings followed and that governments have sought to establish legislation in order to meet the new personal protection laws, which have led many institutions into internal diagnostic work on how to manage personal information. Iceland's national records are no exception to this. In the 5th. The bill provides the source of Iceland's National Publications Index for the processing of personal information proposed by the author, the Agency self-important or passed from third parties, such as other public institutions or property owner, for example. That's 6. The details allowed to be recorded are set out. The law does not contain a complete list but contains key information. It is expected that a minister will be allowed by the regulations to determine that any other information needed to be collected and held, such as the addresses of individuals, should be recorded. Il. The chapter of the bill discusses the registry of individuals. It is reported that Iceland's National Registry is pleased with the registration of individuals into a national registry and is pleased with the publication of a social security number. It should be noted that there is no prior legal identification of the social security number in the way this is done. Thus a law has been lacking on who gives individuals social security numbers, but it is suggested that there will be a further set of laws on this subject. This will be in the section on system IDs, i.e. The social security figures published for the public because of individuals who do not have to meet or fail to meet the terms of a registry. It calls attention to the new fact that if the bill remains unchanged in the law, only public members will be able to interact with the formation of a system identification number, as is the case in other countries, but not with private people, such as banks today. It should be noted, then, that there are now over 75,000 social security numbers in the system ID file. In III. section of the bill is a provision for the distribution of national files and the publication of a certificate. It is assumed in the bill that the distribution of the registry will be granted. This allows companies to share the registry, such as it has been, but also the Iceland National Constitution will be able to impart it. There are laws on the provision of personal protection and the processing of personal information. It is thus assumed in the future, when an updated national registration system sees the day, that the total delivery of national files will be prohibited. Instead, names will be provided to collect information from the central file using a web address to the file. In this way all updates, such as expected in a new personal protection law, will be subject to a request for information on who has been looking for them in a national file. Today, the national record is delivered in its entirety, and then it depends on the way the buyer negotiates with a national file on how often the registry is updated. Thus, some companies have purchased a complete national file a few years ago but have not bought any updates on the registry. In the present system of things, which is now in its years and that does not measure up today's demands, there is no trace of national reference. It is then assumed that the renewal of the updated system will prevent any information about the name and/or home, or the location of the individual and the immediate family from being given nationally. The 14th chapter. The bill required for this is closely linked to a law code on a κ-in-laws and residences, but the validation of the law was delayed for technical reasons, in other words, because the old national registration system is not capable of doing so. The same is true with regard to Article 14. the bill of this and of other rules dependent on an updated national registration system to delay their execution. IV. And the last chapter of the bill contains various ordinances, such as those of a citizen, how to evaluate foreign documents, and to receive them. A respectable president. I believe it is only a matter of reimbursement in general by the National Congress of Iceland and the financing of the Agency. I share my mind here with them access to the state's core records, including national records, should be free of charge, i.e. No charge. I believe that making this information free of charge would have a positive effect on society, innovation, and employment. This would mean that the Agency of Iceland's National Registry would have to be funded solely from government funds. It is thus assumed that Iceland's National Publications Index will be at an average of less than 1.9 billion today. Some 920 million are expected. K. From state funds. The other part, some 930 million, comes with information selling. So, there is less than 1 billion that need to be bridged if all the information that Iceland's National Book collects freely. So I suggest, a respectable president, and, in fact, in a paper with the bill, that a working group will be appointed to be identified as a community benefit by making access to information from a national file and other foundation files of the Agency condition condition free of charge and detect potential costs for the state funds. I think it's right to give this working group room to do this well. A respectable president. I have now made clear the subject of the bill in general and suggest that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to 2nd. On the one hand and on the other, the other. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u29	A respectable president. I'd like to step aside a few words from what the Minister concluded, the currency. Especially in the case of the council during springtime. On the one hand, it is the odd thing that a tenth of the issue of national records is paid by another government agency, whether it was specifically examined, that the government's insurance agency will cover the account for a part of the national operation may be something we should leave off. I agree with the Minister that in general information should be free and accessible, but as he says, there may be something in the country by reaching a general policy for an institution of this magnitude. But we have a specific currency that we were advised in the General and Education Committee to further a double claim, which is a remuneration of contracts that are required by individuals, e.g. ... toimportation at the county settlements. It is mainly a proof of birth and foreseeing that people need to be followed by applications to the county. Here in the capital area, this may be 3,500 certicates a year, which people have to transfer between their offices and pay them to national records each year, perhaps 9 million a year. I wondered if the State could not meet these individuals by allowing the politicians to simply turn free into a national file when this information needs to be placed upon the disposal of applications by the county.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u30	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for these questions or questions. I agree with that. A senator said that it is some kind of temporary error that an insurance agency is paying a certain part of the operation of national records. But to be quoted in a bill when it was decided at the time, it was considered best. I think that wording was exactly used, the most suitable arrangement. I pick it up right here, setting up a working group for that, including yourself. analysing these factors, and certainly also, the factors as well as the factors. A senator ended up talking about, i.e. the sale of dictionaries. Of course, these are services today, and we need to make a good analysis. Mr. President. The government and the government put money and a lot of work into the electronic community. When a person goes to one place of the government, some institution, people are not supposed to have to carry papers between the next institution; they should be able to call for information from the system. We know that Estonia is the longest of all. At one time, when Eistar was released and democratically ruled, they said: "We like to be like the North countries. We are often talking about it in this same hall, but they realized that they could not become part of the money they had from playing. We have to find another way, they said, and it was the electronic administration they were looking for. We are there completely and in part will respond to the call. Senator. But we also need to study, in the work of this group, how income will be made.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u31	A respectable president. I'd like to try to get some sleep. Councilmen to think only of legal technology, to ponder over values, and to what members of Congress believe, political and personal, will provide sound reasons enough to gather, distribute, and use personal information. They are new and are gathered for different purposes and in different ways in different places. Blessedly, we recently received new personal protection laws, which are landmarks and very good and important in all places. Actually, she could've come 20 years before it's a good thing she's here. I expect these legislation is in harmony with it. When we look at personal protection on the basis of legal techniques, we may at times have a little problem that may leave our own moral barrier lower than there is a reason. I'd like to specifically mention Section 5. The bill that discusses personal information as a national file is permitted to work with: The National Publications Index of Iceland is permitted to produce personal information, including information about health, nationalities, religion and marital status, and other information provided by the Agency. I have no doubt that this is a legal opinion. We'll probably take a closer look at that on a committee. The purpose must be to pursue a legal goal. The purpose of documenting religion, which I personally find relatively foolish, is to document such a centrality, is linked to this high - paying parishion system, the heritage of the National Church. In fact, I call it the State Church, but for some reason, there are more objects, whether racial or religious groups, that tend to put themselves in more forebears than minorities, which in this case are non - Christian. If it weren't for this system of State, as unlikely as it is today, I doubt that there would be a legal basis for writing specifically to people's religions. Religion can be a very personal matter, and tragic acts have been committed throughout history on the basis of religion. For example, Muslims in Cosvo, Jews in Germany, Christians in many parts of the Middle East and faithless, I dare say, in most places and places. It is not until recently and in designated areas that suddenly it was not terrible immorality to be an atheist. It is new, and that change has not even gone entirely, even here in the West. Let us ask ourselves the question: Do we want to have things so that a national record is coming together in a central place in the State, with the Commission, by the religions of people who have been used directly to perform these evils, historically, not just as a suitable tool, but as one of the main tools? We would never agree to have religion in there if it wasn't for this high-class folk church arrangement. Just because we have a strong established tradition in Iceland and a completely disintegrated National Church Constitution, we have somehow made it more objective and justified in installing information that we know should not be gathered into a central place in the European Commission. If it weren't for the National Church arrangement and the requirement for the event here, we wouldn't think to register this in the evangy Lutheran Church and its parishioners. If someone were to suggest this, we would point to Germany, where such registration was directly used to identify Jews who had changed their names from names to names as though German. That's how people were found, and they were herded together, and they were murdered, organized from this sort of registration. So we would probably be crazy if it wasn't for our tradition now that our tradition is milder than that, and better, indeed. But I think it's worth asking ourselves exactly this, not only if we get away with this sort of legal registration, but whether we don't go too far on our own moral evaluations and our own opinions on what is appropriate beyond this lowest common common codon, which is whether or not there will be personal protection based on legal views. Our standards should be higher in my opinion. We're supposed to be the best. Iceland is supposed to be the best of privacy, freedom of expression, democracy. We're supposed to try to be the best in these things. We should not simply try to meet certain legal requirements. If we believe in these values, we will be more standard than mere legal harmony. It remains that this is already registered. It's not like there's some new thing in this bill. This doesn't mean I'm automatically against the bill. I had considered it some time, but I'm going to look at it again. I understand it's coming to my committee, okay? General and Education Committee. But I think it's worth wondering, when 16 of the 6th points are numbered. The bill, if it really needs it all there. Can't we just skip some of this? If we can skip any of these things, I think we should just do it because we can, simply to be the best. We're not just supposed to find excuses to record this, we should have good reasons to record this, and it would be best for me not to have a national record. I realize that it goes beyond the spread of the general population of Iceland, I realize that, as in fact, freedom in general. I'm not gonna have any more words about this--before I start saying too much nonsense. I'm not going to state that I'm opposed, but I feel that it should make us think about our own value beyond our legal requirements.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u32	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct measures for the practical development of high - speed exchange networks. The bill is back from the previous council. This includes the implementation of the Council of Europe and the Council of 2014/61 of 15 May 2014 of measures to reduce the costs of building on high-speed digital communications networks, as well as changes in telecommunications and communications laws. The building and rebuilding of the fiber - optic network is one of the government's main objectives regarding the easy communication goals. Reflects this goal, including in a proposal for a resolution of telecommunication policies for 2019-2023, i.e. A five - year operation program adopted at the General Assembly in June. Since 2016 the government has been working on increasing access to fiber - optics to rural areas through the European project light-related in the management of telecommunications funds. The objective of the government's communications sector for the whole country is that 99.9% of legal agencies and businesses have access to 100 Mb/sec wireless network connections at the end of 2021. Farmers have directly led the structure where contributions from stocks have helped the most widely used rural communities in this process. For many years, telecommunication funds have contributed to the cost of building communications timbers in market areas. Over the years much has been achieved in the spread of fiber optics in the region, but the unsolved opticization of most settlements outside the southwest corner remains. Also, the spread of five-generation telecommunications, called 5G, around the corner, may have new challenges. The bill presented here is designed to facilitate and encourage the development of high - speed exchange networks by contributing to the joint use of certain existing material structures and by providing more efficient structure for new material infrastructures possibly, allowing the costs of spreading such networks to be reduced. The reductions in the construction of high - speed exchange networks are believed to support government ambitions in the spread of cables at national level, growth, competitiveness, and production. During the implementation of the bill, the directive was thought to detect only minimal integration, but countries are free to implement measures beyond the minimum criteria specified by the directive. Then the directive also contains selection regulations, but in the processing of the bill, it was especially thought of the rules that would create a moderate amount of space in action and not add additional burdensome obligations to the parties involved in the directive. The bill includes the members defined as network operators. A term of this takes even to companies offering a material infrastructure designed to provide services related to production, transport or electrical distribution, including street light, heating and water, including emissions or cleaning of sewage and waste systems and transport workers, roads, ports, and flights. Then they will reach the duties and rights specified by the bill to the material shallows, as the directive specified by the bill, i.e. a network component designed to host other network components without self-recognizing any active components of the network, such as straws, mollusks, plumbing, wells for monitoring, manop, boxing, building or access to buildings, antennas, towers, and poles. Bars, including a black fiber optic cable, as well as the network factors intended to deliver water, are not a basis for building up in the sense of the directive and therefore fall outside the standard range of the bill. In short, the main element of the bill is to ensure access of communications companies to certain minimum information of the network's network's network's existing physical infrastructure and, on the other hand, the current or the intended permission of human activities in order to explore the potential for the compatibility of existing infrastructure or coordination and the speed of development of high-speed exchange networks; to enable communication companies to perform a visual inspection on specific aspects of the material infrastructure; to obligatory drivers of all legitimate communications companies on access to material infrastructure according to their reasonable terms. Special responsibilities are given to the head of a network that is directly or indirectly involved in the construction of workers that are partly or entirely funded from public funds. As a general rule, such persons allow access to their material infrastructure or planned activities as long as such a request for coordination does not result in additional costs, such as tata, the management of the procedure and the introduction of co-ordination applications at least month for a leave-up application. In addition, network operators will be authorized to negotiate with telecommunications companies on human activities through the development of high-speed exchange networks. According to the bill, the Post and Communication Network is given both the role and the means to encourage this development, such as a database on telecommunications, the sharing of information and guidance to parties as well as the ruling authority in controversies. Extensive consultations were given to stakeholders during the work of the bill. In particular, economists disputed over the plans to separate black fiber optics and introduce the term material infrastructure from the directive, according to the words. Having agreed with the Post and Communication Office, the Ministry's assessment was that the publication of the European Directive should not interfere with competitive communication environment. If such an arrangement should be made to bind a black fiber - optic organisation, whether it was a public or only to public public public bodies on the market, a well - founded analysis of the effect of such a plan on competitive situations and the financial interests it should take into account the possible social benefits it might bring. This is the main challenge for those who have given a review of the bill. The preparation is now under way for the induction of the EU's so-called communication package, which includes a complete review of all national communication protocols. In the work started, the analysis mentioned above is carried out. In view of this, it was my opinion that it was not time to expand the concept of a material structure to a black fiber. Finally, there is a chance that there will be a change in telecommunications laws and laws for the post - communications agency. These changes aim to synchronize the application of the directive and to correct communications, to ensure network hearings to the Commission of Communication and Mail, and to enable the mail and communications agency to build a digital database across all the national telecommunications. In this case, an expansion of the current provision of communications laws is concerned by the database, which today is reserved for wireless transmissions only. A respectable president. I have explained the key points of this bill and suggested that it be followed by this discussion. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u33	A respectable president. It is evident in the bill that a black fiber - optic cable is outside this concept, a material structure, while it is in Article 11. A Regulation stating that a minister is permitted to set up a Regulation on the further implementation of these laws. In the c-party, construction and material infrastructure are said to be the exception of access and coordination and the treatment of judicial matters with the decision of such an exception. To me, this sounds as if it were possible to put a black fiber optics under a law that is not within such laws and actually go a little past what may be the goal of the law of induction. At any rate, I'd like to get a little more information on whether it's possible to get the black guide into this legislation by the regulations and to go past the council, and then by the order. In short at the end: Is the minister perhaps concerned that a certain group will go through this, since it is actually just like another case that was spoken in an enormous number of hours during the council? One of the unique digital markets, which was part of the opposite opposition. I'm not worried about that, but I'm wondering if it's the best. Ministers have them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u34	A respectable president. The answer to the previous question is why. The senator is: I don't think it's possible to interpret the Regulation as such. It is primarily considered for security sites where such access is not readily opened and, therefore, the authority to do so is clear. This is a very positive issue in the sense that this is an effort to reduce the cost of enterprises that are truly competitive at markets to work together as a foundation - if we speak Icelandic: digging ditches and such. But, of course, this is much more complicated. Of course, basic structures are far more than cuts. But everyone can see the benefits of using the trip; when one person plans to dig a canal, that it is announced, advertised. As a result, other people can say that they are interested in making use of the trip and through conversation, cooperation, and cooperation in terms of terms of terms. The benefits, in turn, are consumers, public, and community. So, no, I can't imagine that any members of a council would think of taking such a matter into their mouths. Well, what do you know? But communication is that it has no borders in itself. It is the very purpose of communication to reach people, to us when we travel abroad, and to be in our dealings with people around the world and also in our lands. But with this bill, it is mainly possible to do so in the most practical way possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u35	A respectable president. I agree completely with this, and it's very good to have those words in the Commission on the Regulation. I think it would be wise to make it clear in a committee study in this regard, the violation of the Regulation's authority. It should be clear how the black light guide fits in there and what was most debate about the bill at the last council. True, there was a situation where it probably could have run out last time. I don't know exactly why it didn't, but it should be because of my ability to fly through. However, despite the fact that the second bill was the same as it was about the interests of the citizens, there was still a filibuster, such as the Supreme Court. A minister said, so you never know. I agree with the highest. Minister on this matter. I can't wait to take it from the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u36	A respectable president. At the last assembly, hard work was placed on this matter by the council and the environment and transport committee, it was a long time ago, and I thank you for that work. At that job, everyone turned in a lot of debates. What may have changed since we were discussing is that we were looking out to see if it was possible to have this black elephant-line fiber of the fiber cable part of it, but now we've got a clearer line on it and we've fallen away from such ideas. We can clearly inform the committee of why this is, with more information. It should help the committee to complete this matter rapidly and effectively.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u37	A respectable president. I'm glad to be standing here and measuring for the first priority of the group. The group of people now puts before Christmas five priorities, which are the quality of the party and clearly highlights our well - being, the fight against poverty, and the fight against taxation against the same poverty. This proposal for Congress is about 300,000 k. The minimum advance of social security and with me on the motion is Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, head of the Gangsmen. It's about that the Allied Council deems to hide the Minister of Social Affairs in advance and to present the bill that a series of microenergy pensions, rehabilitation pensions, and pensions guarantee 300,000 bucks. Minimum progress per month, tax and inadequacy. Its bill will be submitted to the General Assembly before the end of the current legislature. In a paper with the Senate resolution, the President's permission states: Here is a proposal to prepare the social and child-friendly minister and provide the bill for changing social security laws and other laws, if necessary, that ensures adequate minimum production of disability and pensioners. The largest monthly pay for a pensioner with no other income is only $22,000. by taxes and 252,000. if the person has household chores. Those who live in such a crisis are trapped in a poverty trap. In recent years the cost of living has increased greatly, especially with housing costs, but at the same time, the payment of the social security system has not been accompanied by public pay development in the country. The growth of disability has improved by 29% compared to pay development in the last decade. In this case a personal discount has been reduced proportionately with respect to the prices and salary development. In the past, tax limits were higher than non-profit insurance bills. We now have a tax limit at 153,000 kns. The monthly income, but the basic tax pension is $3,800. per month. Thus, taxation limits are considerably lower than basic pensions. The result is an increase in the low tax rate. The global insurance system is to ensure those who need basic human rights, i.e. Food, clothing, and shelter. The government is not to judge a person in a lifetime of poverty if a person is so unfortunate to become an invalid. It is necessary to increase the minimum social security policy so that it covers and protects the worse and needs the most help. According to 1st mg. 76. g. The constitution is obliged to ensure that all those who need help because of sickness, disability, old age, unemployment, poverty, and similar circumstances are needed. This protection that the Constitution offers to the smallest of our brothers and sisters is not respected. It is long since time that money will be set aside for those who need it most. It is therefore suggested that the lawgiver ensures that the pensioners of social security have provision as a student at least $300,000. a month, tax and inadequacy. Finally, I'd like to refer to this synopsis proposal. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u38	A respectable president. We'll discuss a proposal for a hearing from the mob about 300,000 bucks. Minimum social security advance. To back up this 300,000 k. We need to go back to 1988, at the beginning of the tax standard. When tax markets were recorded in 1988, the pensions of social insurance were tax free, and people also had to be left over, 30 to40%, in pension payments, or for example. Job pay without losing it. We have to watch this $300,000. in that we must be talking about minimal progress. The person with $300,000. To survive in this country, e.g. To cover rent expenses. I saw a recent rent price in a three - room community apartment of 157,000 dollars. per month. In view of this, the rent price is more than 50% of the amount, and we are only dealing with rent levels in social areas. The public market also has a large proportion of those who are trying to survive. We have to figure out why people survive. Most people get about 215,000 bucks. Down payment, $27,000. for taxes. It tells us it's about to set $35,000,440,000. I pay taxes to people who can't even support themselves. There is also another group that is experiencing even more of the population today, the so - called poor population. There people are severely punished just for moving, e.g. from a country with their parents, moving back as adults, they have lost a measure of rights. You have seen a number of examples showing that these people are being dosed at 70,000,80 thousand. to survive per month. It tells itself that there is no way to survive it, not even torah. Then there are other groups that get even worse out of this, those we invite here to our country, foreign citizens who have settled here, have obtained reimbursement in Iceland and have become Icelanders. These people have not earned their rights as well as anyone from the social security system, and these people are standing the longest today. What kind of humanity is it to invite people to come to Iceland and become Icelanders, then the people work here, suffer an accident, and be severely punished for not paying the same amount? This is simply a time to create rough, destructive poverty traps with economic violence, as I have often pointed out. If we take more of this experience, we, for example, are involved. talking about disability and senior citizens as well. We are talking about people who have to go to high costs because of medicine and medical care and the cost of disability or illness. It tells itself that people should not be punished cruelly for them, judging them in poverty, or very poor just for getting sick. Sad to say, children often forget that this is the case. Children are sentenced to poverty, to some sort of excommunication from our society. Sadly, as the examples have shown, many children live out there in very few cases. That is when parents face the challenge of choosing between eating or feeding their children. We've managed our taxes. In recent years, the rate of taxation has greatly increased. That is clearly stated in the 69th chapter of that verse. Social security legislation that the pay of pensions from the government's insurance agency should take into account pay development. I'm afraid that hasn't happened. And what has it used? Yes, the index of consumer prices. It says that the index price for consumption should only be used if more practical. In fact, the saddest of all of this is to try to get out of experience by taking from two, three years and saying that it would be better to have the index than the salary development and vice versa. But we all know that the group we're fighting to get 300,000 bucks. per month, which is not a high, has no chance and has never had any elevations, such as others, e.g. with a claussis which occurred after a collapse. Here were governments who taught themselves well, left wing people were in power, and put on the special replacement with cloudless promises that the first thing - the most ridiculous in all of this is that it was even reduced by 10% to the worse in those days, but the promise was that the first thing that the person would do when he was better years of age had to correct that group. Did the government resist it? No. Have these groups received an improvement in their dress and grooming, which has been improved in all the remuneration groups over the past few years? No, this group has been completely abandoned. It sucks to know that only the worst have been left behind. The result? As a result, poverty has increased. Let us not forget that a group of people has been established for the sole purpose - number one, two, and three - to eliminate the poverty of children. It tells itself that in our wealthy and productive land, no one should live in poverty. It is the decision of every government to maintain this system. It is the decision of every government to tell you out there, which needs living under these circumstances, that it will not change. How can we change this? We can't change this but in one way, by giving up votes on those who promise everything beautiful for elections, simply saying that they're going to do everything for you. Do they stick to it? No, that's the first thing that's forgotten as soon as the government's made up. Then come the crumbs that hardly return to those at the bottom, the crumbs that return to slices, and the whole cake to those who have it best in the country. I really hope that this synopsis proposal will be adopted and approved. It would be a great step, but only the first step in showing that we are thinking about the lesser ones, that we are thinking not only of our own ass but of those who really need us to put our arms around them and make sure that no one, remember that, has to live with poverty on the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u39	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for history. Here is a fine deal that serves primarily the interests of the elderly and the desperate and is needed. I agree with that, but there's one thing I'm putting on question signs. These include poor income families who live in the same situation as the group mentioned here and who would have been asked whether it had been implemented in this context. In this regard, I remind you that during the last assembly, a pact proposal was made for the lack of tax pay below 300,000 dollars. There was a 1st carrier. paritaprevir Dr. Ólafur Ísleifsson. That suggestion is extremely careful, and it comes with accurate calculation. There the elderly, the poor, and the ill - income families fall. I agree that the proposal for this discussion is good as far as it goes and that it should ensure adequate minimal progress from disability and pensioners. According to one report, in recent years the cost of living has increased greatly, especially with housing costs. It's true, as we know, housing prices have gone up substantially, and here we have payments under the Ministry's guidelines so that each person sees that this group does not meet. The suggestion as hell. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson was an authority at his time and will move here again as she did not succeed at the last council, which means that a financial and economic minister will be assigned to set up a timetable for the income of individuals under 300,000 dollars. ... ifthere'sa understatement. These tax limits correspond to a total of 106,000. in a person's discount. Very thorough and accurate calculations are proposed, and the aim of the proposal is to balance the tax burden between income groups so that those with high incomes and those who fall near poverty limits in society's management will be more like those in other countries and, on the other hand, save those who have income below limits to pay taxes from them. In this case, it is sobering to consider that government funds depend on paying such a low income. That's something we shouldn't be known for. This need to be adjusted, and it is essential that transnational reconciliation develop in these areas. All these suggestions cost money, and they need to come in somewhere. The suggestion as hell. paritaprevir Ólafur the son of Isleus'Ísleifsson recommended ways of dealing with these costs, following a very good calculation in those areas. The proposal for this is not to see the calculation in this regard, but certainly, the Ministry of Social Affairs is assigned to prepare a bill and it would be expected to be discussed in the Ministry. Still, it would be helpful to have a set of guidelines for these matters, since it helps to support the need to explain them. The Democratic Union released an interesting report on the tax burden of wage people in 1998-2016. It shows that in addition to child growth and housing, the overall taxation rate for the remuneration of the employee is increased in all income groups over the period and that the increase is the largest in the income market. We must overcome this, we should not be known for increasing the tax burden on the income. If we watch this stratosphere is, as I said before, completely prerogative that people who are supposed to promote life don't have enough money to pay even for the minimum future that the Ministry has published. I just wanted to come into this conversation briefly. Of course, I welcome this matter, but I wanted to promote that there is a certain group with a low income. They must be exposed to them as well as to older ones and to microorganisms in these respects. There I refer to a suggestion. paritaprevir Dr. Ólafur's Ísleifsson Ísafun, who will be brought here again, as I mentioned. It is important that we join together for the three groups involved in the matter and provide a decent standing so that we can be known for trying to support this group rather than on the other side, that people need to survive income that is under the limits of living.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u40	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The one before the speech is Þórarinsson's son. It is of particular interest that he speaks a lot about the people's case that we made up to the last council and the former council leader, Ólafur Ísleifsson, gave a case of about 300,000 k. minimum remuneration. The good calculations as well as any. A senator refers to the purchases of the Gang of the People. We'll just continue on that journey and the specific issues we're talking about here only further development in terms of the social security system and those who have to rely on forwards from there. This is the first of five cases in the group's priority package, which attracts the welfare of the people. There is another matter that may not be a reason to discuss here, but that is exactly 350,000. The minimum increase in income in the country. The criteria are clear. There are reports and calculations and anything I don't doubt about. A senator looks forward to seeing. In terms of the cost, one of the five priorities is going through how we can get money to finance a high total of 40 billion as a government fund will be off the welfare package of the Stockholm people. I felt compelled to come up here and say that this was actually just the first step in history of the people's welfare package at this council, and I'm very proud of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u41	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. She well knows that we are in this together, and our minds are set on the people who have so little initiative. Like what? A member of the council has been struggling to improve the terms. Of course, I support it and thank her for conveying messages about calculating and what else they brought. We are all in the same boat as we try to improve the minimum benefits in society. There's something that Congress should agree on and should be a priority because many of this group, under these strategists, are at work and are trying to save themselves, but are not going to make ends meet because they're paying taxes that are so low that we shouldn't be recognized that we're taxing them. I came into it earlier that it is sobering to think, Mr. President, that the government fund should be so dependent on paying so little money. That is a sobering thought. I'm on a budget board and I'll see, for example. In the new bill, one factor of 17 billion is tax requirements that have not come in for some reason. In other words, the tax paid by individuals and companies was to be paid but not paid. There we can see a substantial amount of money that could be used to improve the interest of these people if the debt paid by taxes would be added, which is a priority, and it would be very necessary to apply. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u42	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. It's a pleasure to have a pleasant evening. The senator should be here, one of the few. The United Nations does not seem to be a matter of heart grips on this particular matter, so it is human task to deal with the social groups that decompose death. We ask for games, and surely you try to be optimistic about what turns out that other senators are ready to take our smallest brothers and sisters and try to rip them out of poverty. Like what? A senator rightly points out that it is more painful than tears if they are told that the national vessel is almost evicted by taxing heavily. It is pure indistinguishable. It's all man's work. It's all about the priorities of money. The people have reported that we first entered the high General Assembly that our priorities in budgeting money are the last time we see a decline in bank taxes and fishing costs, a total of 11.3 billion a year, at the same time, as taxing a lot of money is being paid. At the same time, the banks show tremendous profits, and at the same time, they have almost never been better - but we are taxing heavily. A respectable president. That's the wrong thing to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u43	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator who agrees with her that when we consider a group like this, it is a peculiar priorities that people, as we say, have to draw on life with such a low income. Hv. A senator rightly mentioned the bank tax that has been a special interest in the government. This is mainly due to financial pressure. I have attended a meeting in which they have studied their language in this regard, and I find it especially memorable when one of the bank directors appeared to a financial committee, misjudged himself, and said that the bank tax was very taxing for financial companies. It was not long before that bank manager quit and received 150 million. K. A retirement deal from that bank. I have to say, there are paradoxs in this. The need to reduce the bank tax is spoken of as being so welcome to the consumers that the charges will be reduced, that we may see a decrease in interest, etc. I've asked the highest. Secretary of finance: What guarantee do we have that these charges will come to a lower end? There is no answer. In view of my experience, I don't think consumers will see that interest will come to a lower end. This may be an outcast during this discussion. Thank you. A senator for the discussion and for upholding these issues. This is very necessary, and hopefully we can combine these suggestions and get them to correct the terms of those who are also in poor income. [[The president calls.]] It is just as necessary to correct the ideals of disability as the elderly do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u44	President. I just want to put into this discussion from collapse. It is legal that pension should be increased in accordance with high prices in the country. Then there's going to be pay development, I think prices will be developing too - okay, okay? paritaprevir Sæland Goland is correcting me, that this is all about the pay grade. I don't remember who the other one is, but at least I don't remember. is your pay development. This is then removed, and while others slowly enter the pay or household income after the crash, all the funds are removed. No, that's not going to work now, and not next time, they say. It's gonna build up. I remember that there have been 17 billion accumulation when I examined this, and now it is in a 29% decrease. The members of the United States also found themselves sitting down after a crash, even reducing their wages. By the decision of the Council of Elders, which the council did not want to reverse, the members of Parliament are far beyond the general salary development. So has it been frozen since, in 2016, when the Board of Elders made that decision. At the beginning of the next year, we reach an equation point because the Presidency Committee reduced some other payment. However, senators are still on pay over general pay development. It is the reality of the situation, and when this rise was done, it was even repetitive. Senators have already received their damages, and well done, i.e. that you have been waiting for some time, but you haven't been corrected yet. It's a good bill. I know why. paritaprevir Sæland Goland is well involved in these matters, and I hope that the Committee's work will be examined. They're everywhere. There's four of them? One day, I ran into four progressive goals. They need to be united. The amount of income you earn in your home needs to be clearly defined in order to handle progress. You need to combine the basic needs of living, because otherwise you just point out and go south. This is the highest reference to the Department of Social Affairs, but students have very low standards, they clearly need less. I support the fact that we finally meet a pensioner who stayed behind, and I thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland Land for delivering this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u45	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for his contribution in this matter. He took us members of the Parliament as an example of those who have overstepped their salary development and who have received correction and more than we have. Sadly, though, most in the community have received this, and indeed those in the lowest wage have also had some increases. Let us look at the facts. What increases have we always talked about, and have we always been talking about in the past few years, except perhaps in recent biographies? That's the percentage increase. They're so unbelievably unfair in this system, and that's why it will always be more sparkling. It tells itself that it's always continued, as he came on, e.g. is the next increase at 3.5%, but pay should be increased by 5.7% in April. It has been an en route with this government, and it seems that this discussion will always be forgotten to consider all groups of people. I'd like that information by what I'm talking about. A senator whether he agrees that this system has to be revised from A to A, and it provides such a simple system that it is quite beneficial and that everyone could understand it. We should, and that is the best thing we could do. We know that this system has older citizens, poor people, unemployed, and then people have a career as well. We're forgetting those on the move of our rural society, so these are a lot of systems, and they're up against them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u46	President. It really needs a complete review of this system. Those who will follow it in the end should be very careful that those who want to determine how the system often uses such an opportunity to make it worse. It's somehow more compatible, but not necessarily better for those who need to rely on the system. You have to be very alert to it; it opens up all kinds of opportunities for those who feel that those who are in pensions should not enjoy the lifestyles that the people's party wants them to do. The Social Security Act says this increase should be done, i.e. will follow your pay development. Today, members of the council have made changes too. After the Cathedral Council, advice has been submitted and agreed to be paid by senators, Ministers, and others who cannot negotiate their salary directly with general pay development. Why should it not be done exactly the same with those who accept pension and therefore cannot negotiate with their choice of pensioners and pensioners? I would say that this should be combined in one burning charge, binding ups in the interest of an eligible pensioner to raise the interest of others who can't negotiate their purchases and benefits, such as members of Congress. Then we'd have put it together that the senators can't leave the pensioners and other pensioners behind.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for these indications. It is very strange that the survivors, older citizens, the desperate, the unemployed, the underpayers, and the social relief workers will never get their corrections. Now, just say, that's the right thing to do. From now on, all will receive these legal pay promotions. This is a economic violence against those to whom the least is to be done. The senator also pointed to something else about the social security system. I was on the Pétur Blöndalur Committee, and the one who put me in there is a bad man. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson. I got in exactly what he said. There was the amazing violence that is being used by this group in connection with a crown against a dollar's decrease. At the Pétur Blöndalur Committee, when senior citizens were allowed to disqualify a dollar in return, when the special replacements went into their basic pensions, they were tried to force disability to swallow that if they didn't have almost half a pension, they would be put out on the god and sea, without getting a cent against a crown of rape. That still applies today. Even though there are 65 pennies in favor of a dollar, only one third is gone. Such violence is always being used, and this has also been used in the current committee. A crown across the crown is always the carrot root - if you don't swallow it, you don't get anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u48	President. This is exactly what happened. A senator informed us of his day at Porta's council. It's very happy to see what's happened. Then a senator enters a council and can continue to fight all this knowledge and experience and see firsthand how this works. I'd say the most pleasant thing to do when I see the people at the council is that there are people who know themselves what it's like to live under these conditions. I can see on the bill that if people don't get back home, they'll have to survive $22,000. ... nobodydos. At home, it is 258,000 k. No one lives on those things that also have to pay off their home. They always say, "We're gonna live in a community where we're gonna have a safety net. " If a person experiences a temporary loss of his job, he is out of control. He must be able to continue his household, and we want to make sure that it is possible. When it comes to microorganisms and older citizens, we are often discussing the rest of their lives. It's over for the rest of your life. What does it look like when it comes to microorganisms? In many cases, the process of disability means the rest of a person's life. There is no turning paralysis back in the near future. There's some kind of sign to it, but not in the near future. Also, the blind will not be cured in the near future. Many people have to live with this for the rest of their lives. Are we really going to invite these people to live on with 252,000 dollars? a month? I don't think it's a real insurance policy, and everyone who doesn't have to live with such terms should think that they could end there. [[The president calls.]] Do we not want to secure ourselves together through our tax money so that if people are so unfortunate, they can still live with dignity?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u49	President. Tomorrow, a global strike for the climate will be held that the initiative of young people and this time it is emphasized that we, the adults, walk out of our work places, participate in the strike, and call for more drastic government action against disaster. The strike page says, with permission of the president: Our house is burning. Let us act accordingly and demand climate justice for all. The message's pretty clear. But what is the government's message? I'm not referring to the highest personal ideals. Minister, I have no doubt that she would agree with me on the importance of the seminary. I would like to begin this discussion by discussing with her a point of government policy that I feel is fully aware of, too ambitious, even contradictory. The government's declaration says that it would be better than Paris's contract for 2040. On the other hand, the Paris Convention is only until 2030, so things are simply not clear enough. Let us assume that other members of this agreement will continue to be successful when 2030 escapes. The government's strategy also speaks of a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 but does not seem to rely on the government to negotiate without a 29% reduction in negotiations with the European Union and Norway. Doesn't the government think it's possible to meet the 40% goal? Which result will be 29% or 40%? Unexplained, even inexplicable, speech of this sort is not enough to put ambition into the hearts of the public. In fact, the new European Commission stresses a 55% reduction in emissions. Although we are not involved, I believe that we follow these ambitious goals, we want and should be on the international advance in the battle against disaster. Although the government's aim for noncarbonism is certainly ambitious, I feel that there is a lack of discipline and standards. Thus, in the year 2040, the cohesion will provide a bill in the coming winter on the legalization of non-carbons and will provide a set amount of timed goals and clear defined criteria. Sweden, Norway, Britain, and France have already chosen this route. I'm asking, can the highest. The prime minister intended to support such a legal arrangement? In fact, according to the government's policy declaration, all larger government plans should be determined by climate targets. I ask, has it been done with e.g. A future transport plan, a contract with agriculture and high-priority plans? If so, where can I find it? The highest government budget every time is a budget, and I ask: Is the financial bill being considered to be a climate goal? Mr. President. The Declaration of the Government states that climate is one of the priorities of Icelandic foreign policy. V.E.G. The prime minister is given the opportunity to keep the big words at the UN summit next Monday. So I ask, "Will the highest." Ministers present new and ambitious targets for Iceland's migrating emissions of greenhouse gas that will be legalized and that are consistent with the European Parliament's data and comparable to those of the North countries? At least the union Encouraged by her, she will lie down with her to make it possible. V.E.G. I'm sure the prime minister agrees with me about the urgency of the matter and that it deserves everything. There's no waiting. Sadly, we are in debt to the future, and we are in a race for time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u50	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson for bringing up the matter of this important matter. It is appropriate that we discuss this before a United Nations climate conference begins in New York, where we have high expectations for what will happen. I really hope that there will be a step in progress at that meeting. First, I want to discuss our international commitments. They are, of course, under the Paris Treaty, showing that Iceland will work within the common objective of 30 Europeans to reduce emissions by 40% to 2030 compared with 1990. Within this framework, the requirement for emissions has been about 29% in Iceland, due to the nature of this requirement. A senator made it a special subject, but our goal is still 40% reduction. But the requirement for us is 29% emissions, just to be clear, there should be no doubt about it. In addition to the commitments established by the Icelandic government by signing the 2015 Paris Convention, which was a most enjoyable step that took on a crosspolitical agreement, the current government has set out for its purpose in a noncarbonization of 2040. It can be debated as to whether it is ambitious enough, but it is ambitious in internationalism. If I consider our neighboring countries, many of them are setting such goals, and Iceland is standing in front of the group. We have stressed that the goal is realistic, that it can be achieved. And because of what? One member of the United States wondered if the objective of Iceland is clear and ambitious enough to inspire the public to cope with the climate crisis, I would like to say that I find the Icelandic and Icelandic public - and when I talk about professional life, I'm talking about both the companies of the country and the entire pay force in Iceland - I've certainly caught that ball. Today, the government and employment community will be formally established on green solutions, where it is intended to impart the knowledge we have created here in Iceland and to promote cooperation with this objective in cooperation with industry and the government. I'm very pleased with the idea that both companies, employees' organisations, and the public have shown in these matters. They have shown that they want to participate in this, that they also see the opportunities for Icelandic society in what we are doing, both to deal with climate problems and also to improve our community. The schedule we presented at the time, i.e. Just a year ago, included a year and a half. a very extensive project on carbon binding, which will be undertaken on a wide range of projects all over the country to bring carbon back to its atmosphere and restore wetlands. In addition to promoting the effectiveness of the national climate, these measures are aimed at strengthening the biodiversity of Iceland and biodiversity. Action is already being taken, and the four - year plan allows the annual scope of land healing and forestry to double and recovery of wetlands to be 10fold. Extensive steps have already been made in terms of transport energy exchanges presented in June and aim to increase the number of expressorium stations and to contribute to energy exchanges in cooperation with transport services and to influence the postmarket of electrical vehicles in this country. The investments received after the introduction of the first government strengths could be up to 1 billion. in the year 2019,2020. In other words, the response was immediate. I mentioned in advance government and professional activities, but as part of the preparation for his organization, we jointly signed a declaration, all major industrial companies in Iceland and PGE, together with governments, to investigate whether and how to reduce emissions from industrial companies by subsiding carbon in rocks. Third, a wide range of measures have been carried out. I would like to mention the obligation that the World Council of Iceland earlier laid upon us at the European Commission, that governments and businesses in the majority - owned state, as well as rural communities all over the country, set up climate policy and aims for recession in greenhouse gas emissions. Climate - based standards have also been legalized, as well as established by law that the scientific reports are due. We are initiating changes in our economic management through both green and green taxes so that economic incentives will work with us on climate targets. We are also working on the growth of public transport, along with other transport improvements. Most important, we are setting priorities for climate change research because it is of course a key factor to taking advantage of the knowledge we have and to increase new knowledge along with the action we take in order to produce results. Because of that, the goals of success. A senator mentions a number of environmental objectives, which were introduced last week. In the next financial programme, the prosperity targets, including the environmental objectives, will be on the standards we set when we make policy decisions about government spending long term. [[The president calls.]] While there is much work to be done to enforce the government's climate plan, we are working according to the best possible knowledge and research to ensure that action is effective and is taking place as the broader solidarity and cooperation in society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u51	Mr. President. Thank you. Einarsson This important discussion and the highest. Prime Minister for answering. But it is important that the discussion, such as talk about climate and environment in general, be successful in leading us along the way. It's, for example. not only desirable but, in many ways, harmful to put first fear of environmental and climate propaganda, to bring children to a world full of panic and to believe that the world is going to end. We must approach these issues, this major subject, on grounds of facts, in regard to science and the context. What is to form one of the best, even the best, of what the Icelanders have done with the world's climate? It's building an aluminium, that the aluminium should be built in Iceland, using renewable environmental energy instead of being built in China, where the emissions would have been ten times what the same plant releases in Iceland, the end of the energy system would have driven by a sea of non-fiction coal. They now proclaim sentencing tax to punish people for throwing things away. Why not focus on other options, to make it possible to build high - tech dumps and to use them to produce energy? Home waste is the most environmentally friendly fuel for energy production. We cannot respond by trying to live as if we were living in Swedish hippies. We must allow science to solve this for us, for that is what has been most effective in pollution to develop up to this point. The result must be based, above all, on facts, context, and the search for solutions that really work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u52	A respectable president. I thank the chairman of this matter for taking up this fine case, the climate, which I believe we should discuss much more in this council hall than we do. However, I would like to enter at the expense of the actions, such as. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Prime Minister has described it. Indeed, they are ambitious goals, as is popular in describing this debacle. The money has to be taken care of. Money is a limited resource in the government box. In this regard, costs need to be considered too. In particular, in 2011-2013, laws were made during the period of the left government, where the demand was to increase the contribution of transport carbon balance by obliging existing biofuels. This has resulted in the cost of up to 1.2 billion a year, based on an answer I received, which flows directly to the foreign manufacturers of biofuels transferred here. These appear to be examples of the carbon balance available to the public and are certainly a positive step, increasing public awareness that carbon emissions in one place may have to be improved in another place. I recently noticed that Icelandic companies are offering this carbon balance in a much more practical way. I'll take the example of Kolwood and the Voteland Fund, which allows for a carbon balance for four and a half k. on the litre, but this mixture calls for a carbon equation that costs 90 k. Each litre. It seems that the domestic equation is not only much less expensive than the importer but also calls for less fuel waste and a much improved land quality in the prenup. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the highest. Whether it is necessary to revise these rules on the costs and financial costs that flow continuously from the country every day.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u53	Mr. President. From the start of that government, one sixth of the time is until the 2030 days of debt. The importance of a good response to a climate problem is not underestimated by anyone who wants to be taken seriously. True, much has been done in the past two years, but most of it has made administrative adjustments and preparation for the process of detracting. And what do we need to consider? Carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases emissions of 130,000 tons per year, every year up to 2030. It's not a small project, it's a huge project. The fact that one sixth of the time has passed since that government began making it necessary for you to ask yourself, " Will this happen? ' There are some things we could do that we haven't been doing. That would be, for example. can be required by law on official financial matters to account for all the government's carbon footprints on the budget, at least ... ina financialprogram. At the same time, rapid reactions could be effective. We had recently spent a whole day at the council, which had to do with emergency changes in fishing law. Now the children call it an emergency. Would it not be possible to respond in a similar way to drive contrary to the legislation that is needed to enable us to reach our goal? There's no need to make this an emotional matter. We all know what the assignment is. We all know what needs to be done, and we also know the importance of this being done, not just in Iceland, but everywhere in the world. If we do not respond with full force now, we are likely not to achieve it. [[The president calls.]] The time of man on earth as a passenger has passed. Now we must carry full and undisputed responsibility for the ship Earth.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u54	A respectable president. We will discuss climate issues, one of the most urgent issues of our Common Era, that will engulf us into our daily lives and into all the decisions we make in the World Council. I welcome all the activities that are going on in order to respond, such as the highest. At the beginning of the discussion, the prime minister studied. Newness, economic vision, and innovation have often been viewed as a contrast, but there is, in fact, one basis for climate reversal. We need a new thought to stop throwing stuff or bad vegetables, food from the slaughter animals, or magazines from the carrots. We must make better use of food and get what is not used directly into the circuit again. We can't just live on perfect vegetables and lamb ridges. There are other factors. In the spontaneous development of the past, any profit produced was replaced, not just by the best bites. We need to mix up old knowledge with new ones to make even better use of what is available to the environment. A fine example of this is the growth and management of grass and cloves, where there will be three products, oil, flour, and poles, all of which will be used together. As a member of the Parliament's Fund, we have presented a Congress resolution to promote the growth of such energy plants in Iceland. Globally, land quality recovery and forestry must be given much greater weight. Iceland provides a 100-year land transplant experience through the United Nations Landing School and recently signed the Environment and Resource Minister on behalf of the Declaration of the European Parliament to the United Nations Environment Agency on land healing in Africa. This is a wonderful project, for a land transplant is one of the most important projects of the international community. It enables a number of flights to strike at once, to counteract climate change, to improve the quality of life for many people, and to reduce the number of refugees. That is why we are supposed to have destroyed the deserts of the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u55	Mr. President. First, I want to thank the advocate and minister for this important discussion. This is not a matter we can only ask for. It is also easy to hear that the general body of Congress feels that way. The task, however, is especially to transform beautiful words into action, quickly and carefully. Ólafur Arnaldur, professor at the National Farming University of Iceland, whose title is false: Severe slants on the implementation of the agricultural component of sheep breeding sheep are carefully reviewed by the ills that can be found in our new country. It is estimated that 10◯20% of the budget will function in regions where the state and nature of ecosystems do not meet the criteria set in relation to the implementation of existing agricultural legislation. Those who own these items have received payment from a government fund that is not in harmony with the laws of the Law. The climate action programme says, with permission of the President: It will be achieved only by large increases in carbon binding in vegetation and soil and reduced land use. This harmonizes well with over a century of public efforts to reverse deforestation, to heal waste, to heal waste and to destroy land, and to cultivate forests. Mr. President. I'm offering a plagiarization proposal where governments are assigned to implement this project on the land management quality management of sheep making long-term improvements. These improvements are timely for the large majority of the sheepfolds that meet the requirements of responsible and sustainable land use. These are timely improvements for consumers who feel that they have good reason to believe that they are buying environmentally friendly products. First and last, these are long timely improvements for nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u56	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Logi of Einarsson for opening up this need for this debate on climate and Iceland's international commitments and the highest. Minister for being here with us today. There is no doubt that a warm season is begun on the mother's soil. There is a debate about the reasons why this is happening, but we in our people's Tracks feel that there is good reason to pay close attention when we hear that this disaster is man - made. There is evidence to suggest that we do. This discussion about pollution of emissions and greenhouse gases is frequently referred to, and this waste has to be reduced. If we Icelanders are to be significant in the discussion, we must follow the lead. We cannot demand that other nations reduce their emissions as we do little that matters to reduce our own efforts. We're in Iceland so fortunate that we live in large numbers with energy and heat sources that don't dump contaminated emissions, and that's where I mean electricity, steam, and hot water. We do not have to burn oil, gas, and coal to make heat and currents. However, in a fine article by Hjörleifur Guttormsson, a naturalist, and a former senator, in the Morning Press today, Iceland and I have high emissions of people despite our renewable energy sources. How can we reduce our emissions on so - called greenhouse gases? Where do we get the most out of this country? We must look to the big ones, the worlds, the diatoms. We've got to take a look at a flight. We've got to take a look at a boat ride. Are we willing to stop the building of a new major industry and even close those who are already involved? Are we ready to slow down on a trip to the country? Are we willing to limit sailing, arrivals, and funerals to our country? Clearly, jets and cruise ships both pollute very much. What about the fishing road? Or should we change the emphasis on it and reduce the pull - ups where much oil is burned and replaced with the emphasis for fishing with stationary fishing tools, such as notes? [[The president calls.]] The fact is, whatever we do, it takes certain sacrifices. The question is, how ready we are and how far we want to go. We only have one earth.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u57	Madam President. We live in a time of great tension in our environment. There is something going on, people around the world, especially young people who rise up and ask: What about the future? Do we have a future? What was discussed a few decades ago as unpleasant pollution has reached such a critical stage that we are now talking about disasters, even an emergency, and mankind's becoming more preconceived, that we are in a serious struggle with time, and as if we are returning now, we are on a journey of destruction, not the future. The sea under which we have everything is especially of interest to me in this relationship. To us northern residents, e.g. for the Western nations, climate change is no longer some vague threat to the future, unfortunately. This has become part of today's seamless realities. We watch the glaciers melt, shrink quickly, and break into the sea. We'll see this in Greenland and we'll see it in Iceland. We fear for the loss of the fish stocks because of warming and acidification, and plastic pollution in the oceans has become a major problem, pervading the entire food chain. The Arctic is bombarded with environmental changes, where we experience two to four times faster climate change than on average in other areas of the earth, much faster than any other. And what are we doing here in Iceland? Are we giving up everything? In the present government contract, it is correct to say that the main premise of government climate policy is to prevent the negative effects of climate change on the marine environment to be affected. I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: How does this basic authority appear? Has the government of Iceland been promoting scientific research on acidification? Has the Geological Institute made contributions to further research? Has the United States established international cooperation between scientists who study acidification? We'll be spending about that. Two percent of the nation's income to this lawsuit. [[The president calls.]] Does this reflect a deep understanding of the present state, the most serious problem mankind has ever faced? I doubt it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u58	President. That's a good discussion. Perhaps we should have regular discussions about climate in this room. V.E.G. In the past, the prime minister did well over some of the action under action in the event of action against change. It was by no means an exhaustive list, and it is not enough for me to study the list of two minutes. Is it enough? No. Of course not! The problem is, this isn't something we do in a year. That's exactly what it is. As a result, the government has put in place an action plan on climate matters, being revised every year and updated. They are reviewing the actions they are taking, not just the goals. Here we can talk, and I can give a minute talk with my lofty ideals, but the action is what matters. They're working and being added and added. That's how we all have to work together. Still, we need lofty ideals. I've been talking about how we're supposed to watch the whole community and the whole system of government out of climates. We're supposed to watch our import and consumption. We're supposed to watch food production and the banking system, use it to support the measures and projects used in the fight against climate change, etc. President. That's a good discussion. There's a harmony here. People come up with great ideas. Yet, I can't help but see that I thought it was interesting to hear it. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson is a little different in this discussion. He could not help but think that the best thing we did in the fight against the climate was to bring up new worlds. Has a what? A senator never heard of national goals as well? This 20th century and 20th - century argument about the people of China is getting a little tired, but it's good that there's an isolated thought and isolated opinion here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Flira Einarsson for starting this discussion. I'd also like to say that the wound is damaged. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttirsson Proppé would not come up here after me instead of being ahead of me, for I would have a direct question to Kolbar's respectable senator, Kolbeinn's Proppér Proppé's, to see if he would be facing what might matter where the world's release of carbon dioxide takes place. I'm gonna let me direct this question to the highest level. Prime Minister, if she has time to enter her second talk, whether she appreciates it as important where the world's emissions take place. The fact is that there is much work to do, but we must also focus on the solutions that are important and are effective. I would like to take two examples of how the cost has been paid or predicted without the government's trust to answer the results of the decisions they make. First, carbon costs have been put on, and this has been raised repeatedly. It's been a while. The Environment Ministers have been asked, and other ministers, in fact, know the results of this payment. The fact is, humans do not trust to answer that question. And now it is about to shovel across the land in ditches without real knowledge of its effect. Of course, it is important whether the canal is new or old, in any layer of soil it is, and so forth, but it continues to drive without knowing fully what real success will be. Then, even though my time is short and my run, people can be looked forward to the fact that the whole sea route has already achieved the goals of human activity in Paris. [[The president calls.]] But it shall continue to be black. This underscores what I'm trying to say. We must somehow approach these matters differently so that we direct our energy where success can be achieved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u60	A respectable president. Thank you so much for the opportunity to take this discussion. I have believed that the European Parliament would agree that we must take seriously the threat of climate change, but I have to admit that in the last few weeks, I have only questioned that we really agree on it. Some people say that there are many signs and there are others who point to solutions in the form of more aluminium and industry and that we have to be calculated into the Excel document before we can make any decisions about how to take action. Nevertheless, the government insists that there is a need to be effective in these matters and that it has taken a great deal of action in this regard. And results are getting caught. The energy exchange in transport is one example, since we are now second in Norway in the number of new registrations of eco-friendly cars. There's results, including. Of the carbon tax, but also of the various chemicals in which the water has been used, it is true that the water has shown great vision in its final failures. Then I come into what I think is the most important thing: the government alone can't do this harm. This must be cooperation between government, professional, and individual. Hence, it is to be delighted that today is the very founding of a climate - and - green community meeting. I have high expectations for that type of cooperation because I think that we have to look at science and research, as well as innovation and technology. Of course, we should let privates with their solutions. In the last few seconds, I'd like to mention waste and waste. I welcome the campaign that is taking place now against food waste, but we have to anticipate further solutions in these areas. Although it's good that we're sorting, to form the plastic that's a big lesion, I don't talk about in the ocean around us, I'd also like to see solutions that we're running on Icelandic companies to do red plastic recycling in our home, that we're not sending all this stuff out of a country with its own carbon tracks. [[The president calls.]] Surely we can strengthen even more powerful innovations taking place on the environment and green solutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u61	A respectable president. I was going to discuss something else in this special discussion, but after a talk. The members of the Central Party need me to respond only to their talks and the speech that comes from that general direction. It is a great deal of importance in taking into account facts and science and context. Hv. paritaprevir The Sigmundur over Davíð Gunnlaugsson told us earlier that we could not solve this by acting as if we were in a Swedish hippie brother. I can teach you why. A senator and everyone on his side of political affairs that it's science, facts, and the context of parts that show us to the climate problem and what caused it. It is caused by many factors, including much of it caused by a person who is released into the atmosphere, for example. carbon dioxide, methadone, etc. It's science that tells us this. There is no Swedish hippie robot to do that. Listening to what's kind of annoying to me. Councilmen talk about science as if it's not science that leads us in the path of dealing with this problem, as science tells us to hold back a little, to our fees, as if it were science and the facts that indicate that we should be careful not to have too high a price on the other or so. As science tells us, this is to be turned into a war between the country and its capital. A respectable president. Bad joke. He would be good if he were funny, but unfortunately, he is primarily tragic. That's what you're showing on this case right there. The members of the Central Party, especially. It is inexpensive, simple, and comfortable simply to put up with anything that might be unpleasant and uncomfortable to cope with this problem. Speaking of political rights, let's face it, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u62	A respectable president. I thank the advocate for this need for this discussion. To cope with climate problems, government efforts and especially the public need to be coordinated. We need to use our planet's resources more responsibly if it's not too bad. Let's work together to make sense. Where's the food coming from? Is he from around the world? Produced environmentally? Is it produced on a distant continent and even had to be destroyed by forests to make land available for agriculture? In addition to the production of food, reduce consumption and use of food, less staff. Information and education are needed for consumers and the public, but beyond all, we need to be reasonable. Iceland is supposed to be responsible for climate issues, which we do. That responsibility may involve a more reasonable approach to these things. We're supposed to work hard on transport energy exchanges. We're supposed to produce food and other products that are acceptable to produce in this country, minimise carbon tracks from abroad. We should endeavor to reduce our consumption of things that we don't really need, to use reusable materials in as much as possible, to reduce food production, to heal land, and to grow forests to bind carbon. You could count on it for a long time. The basic point is, " Let's do things out of reason, not extremes. ' Then we'll be successful together. Teamwork without extremes is the right way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u63	Mr. President. One of the most difficult things for us Icelanders is that emissions in this country are far more than the reference year of 2005 and then 1990. It has been proposed that the EU Convention on the participation of Iceland in specific sectors, in agriculture, in aquaculture, a source of good news, road transport, industrial activity outside the industry and others. In these sectors emissions are to be reduced by an average of 40% in the EU compared to 2005, in Iceland it is 29%. Yet, it is a cause for rejoicing that 40% is in accordance with the government's recommendations. But I have to say, as I look at the councilhouse, there is a doubt that all the governments have a prime minister on that bus, although I know exactly what the mind of prime ministers in these matters is. In the EU it is now discussed that Member States increase their ambition to 55% reduction compared to 1990, as there is no evidence to limit global warming to within 2°C. It almost shows that it is less than 3 °C. António Guterres, secretary - general of the United Nations, has encouraged Member States to introduce new numbers at this huge meeting in New York City. There's a possibility that the EU is going to go there, and that's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: What are these new goals? Have they been discussed within the government? What will be the authority of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter? It is true to assume that on the project, we support her with all our mind to leave Iceland in charge of these matters. But I would like to know if this was discussed within the government, if Iceland will present new goals and answer the call of the United Nations prime secretary. I'm afraid there isn't this great unity in the government when it comes to taking pride in climate. Although a strategy alone may be good, it does not get us to where we want to be. [[The president calls.]] Rather than be on the denial stage, we want to be on the lead in order to limit greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For this discussion, Einarsson's son is on fire. The fact is, we Icelanders are environmental eaters. We wasted quite a lot of money in waste, air pollution, and other ways. We have a seedy pot for sale, and in a surprising way, we try to limit the smallest pollution at the same time that we put our heads in the sand and pretend we don't see what is most polluted. I watched two factors at Station 2 about plastic pollution, striking factors that show black in white how the human chain is dealt with by nature in an incredibly absurd and inappropriate way. In all of this, we need to be careful when setting up new taxes on emissions, waste disposal, and anything that concerns climate, not to take advantage of them, people who are not contaminated and cannot afford them. There's a lot of people who don't have cars, can't afford to buy cool things, and aren't polluting. They can't afford it. The rest of us who can afford it, are sailing on cruise orders, and fly, should pay the taxes. We're supposed to make sure the tax is correct. We are also under obligation to listen to our children. They've figured out what we still seem to put our heads in the sand, which is that the pollution will kill us sooner or later if we don't see to it that our emissions are low.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u65	Mr. President. I agree with the highest. Prime Minister that it seems to be in the public, business, labor movement, many rural groups, even here only in the same house. But we need to do better. The EEA's latest report on the United Nations Climate Convention shows that it will achieve 19% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions to 2030, while the EU Convention states that Iceland should reduce 29% compared to its emissions in 2005 and the government's objective is still 40%, so we need to do better and use these measures to do so. There are only 2% of the budget provided for climate. I'd like to mention here the energy exchange in transport because people talked about it a little bit. They are an enormously important and incredibly large part of this, yet the bad qualities of the private car will remain, which is not the source of energy, but the motority of the car. He makes it possible that we build models on the foundation of American automobiles, as we have in the 20th century, where we are overexploiting ourselves, building too much groundwaterways that call for other demolitions and misdirectors and more travel. The energy exchange is good, but we also need to consider the variety of transport methods, public transportation, bicycle riding, walking. I feel that there is a lack of greater emphasis on the government's objective in the inhabited environment. We live in Iceland, despite everything, around 85% of them, in towns and cities. In the world, the proportion will be 70% in 2050. We need to focus on things where we're getting the most results, and it's in a built-in environment. I think the government should do better. To say that, my best wishes go to the highest. Prime Minister at the council in the following days, and I hope it will have some fresh, ambitious news.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u66	Mr. President. Thanks again. The apocalyptic and the aggressive. Parliamentaries who participated in this discussion. Thank you. the verbal vendetta of his final expression, which I truly take into consideration. The government has spoken clearly. It has increased by about a quarter of the time it began to take place in the environment. It has provided a clear plan, and at the same time, it is very aware that this strategy needs to be under constant review, since the problem is urgent and it is important that we respond in a more flexible way to it. We're talking about science here. Everything we do is based on science, e.g. considering the recovery of wetlands, which will be important to reduce emissions, we also set a measurable goal that will be 50% higher in 2030 by a new operation that will be triggered for the next four years compared to the current agency. This is not merely putting down words on paper, as some have. Councilmen indicate. They're financing it. We have set measurable goals, and they will produce results. The same can be said of the energy exchange that I mentioned earlier, and I expect them to go even faster than we planned, based on the private response to the funding applications we presented in summer because the Icelandic economy and the public are going to bring us on this project. They're going to take part in Iceland's commitment to the Paris Convention and go further by not achieving a non-carbon object later than 2040. It is an ambitious international goal. However, I am aware that the goals may vary over the years as we learn more about the problem and more fully understand the results and consequences of action. There, we need to look to all aspects of our lives as easily as possible. Councilmen have introduced, transport, food policy, energy-rich industry, etc. The big thing is, however, that we are on our way. [[The president calls.]] We show it by means of funding and clear action, and we know that Iceland and the Northern countries are being seen on a global scale. We'll talk to the climate meeting next week and make sure that these matters are going to continue internationally because, unfortunately, they are all around the world, like this country, that there will always be some who will try to prevent changes that will bring us better society, better economics, and better environments. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There will always be those who will try to stand in the way of improvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u67	Madam President. I recommend here for a bill to correct the change in the value tax law (remuneration for work at a construction site). It's on the roof. 10. The bill's forwarders, as well as here, aren't they? The members of Bristur Níelsson, Njáll Friðbertsson, Jón Gunnarsson, Páll Magnússon, Vilhjálmur Árnason, and Ásmundur Friðriksson. In itself, the matter is relatively simple. As mentioned in the preceding article, this matter was presented to the last assembly, but it did not go any further. Not even on the council program, much further. I hope we're a little more successful now. Reimers or landlords of an apartment building are reimbursed as they pay from trade workers at a construction site for new buildings, reforms, and maintenance. He was fully reimbursed from March 1, 2009 to January 1, 2015, at which point the reimbursement was reduced to 60%. A respected supplementary tax due to work in a vacation house, whether due to innovation or restoration, was also fully reimbursed to January 1, 2015, after which it collapsed. There is no reimbursement tax paid on materials or on the job of the operators of the circuit equipment or a job machine registered on a machine file. Payback is even Depending on the contributions of valid accounts from the seller of the service which must be registered on the cost tax file, i.e. having an open pocket number, as it is called, at a time when the job is started. In the paper of the bill that became legal, on the value of extra taxes, No. 50/1988, it was discussed that the increase in construction costs due to the fact that construction work as previously withheld from sales tax would still be worthwhile. Was beginning to recommend reimbursement of reimbursement tax from work in new building and maintenance of an apartment house, such as 13. law on change of credit laws, No. 119/1989. However, the remuneration rate was reduced to 60% by law No. 86/1996 and law No. 149/1996. With law No. 10/209, the remuneration rate was increased again, i.e. from 60% to 100%, with special provisional regulations on the merit tax laws. The bill's report showed that the goal of raising the reimbursement was to match housemakers who are having problems because of current economic difficulties, resist black occupations, and encourage increased construction activities. It is safe to say, Madam President, that the objective of the bill in 2009 has been especially successful. The reduction in remuneration in 2015 is working in the opposite direction, and the person here claims that it was a mistake to start that trip in 2015. There is evidence that with less pay, black jobs have increased, and the total tax of the state funds has become lower than that. Therefore, this bill may not, in effect, have a negative impact on the government income despite the increased expenditures of cost tax reimbursement. In fact, I'm going to allow myself to argue that there can be evidence that the income of the state's budget will be increased by bringing up work on the surface, paying a merit tax will increase; although reimbursement will also fall for insurance, income tax, etc. of the work involved. This bill suggests a reimbursement tax from work on construction or maintenance of housing. Similar reimbursement for vacation homes is not proposed at this time, but there is strong evidence that this will be done. Transporters believe that it is necessary for them to be taken into consideration later on, even at the same time. The Economic and Business Committee proposed to get the bill for discussion. It may then be estimated that the construction cost of an apartment could decrease by up to 3%. Madam President. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u68	Madam President. I come to state my support for this matter. I think it's a good thing, and I gave it my full support when the left government adopted it in 2009. It was until 2015, like a boom. A senator mentioned, 100% reimbursed a merit tax on this particular job. I think we should resolve to accept this matter. But I would like to ask. A senator would consider, in his opinion, to expand this matter slightly. Then I say, Let it be, according to the senator's opinion, let it be, for example. Are you sure you want to reimburse money on behalf of house cleaning workers? This has been done in Sweden with good results and, in effect, the same reasoning as why. A senator speaks of the need to ensure the rights of the people working on this market and also of getting this part of the market on the surface. So do I think that this market, i.e. about household cleaning. Of course, a large portion of household cleaning is done in a routine, but the discussion has shown that there may be a part of this work that is done under the surface. I think that such a step, taking into consideration this work, perhaps directed particularly on women, in view of the market, would be most wise to take, that we would draw this market into the light. Similarly, we would increase the rights and protection of those who work in house - to - house cleaning. I'd love to get an opinion. A senator of this matter and whether he might be willing to consider this in the case of the committee in which he is chairman.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u69	Madam President. I'm gonna start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Ágústsson son of August is a great man. I agree that, of course, it must come to the conclusion of domestic help in general. But I've wanted to go further, and I've been with you in preparation, and I've been hoping to put in a bill, at least before Christmas begins, a change in income tax laws. Then, first and foremost, I look to children and older citizens, that people can draw a certain amount of money that they pay for domestic assistance from income tax support, so to speak, they get a tax deduction. The purpose of this is to be lightened in households, i.e. seniors and children's families may need help but are not equipped to do so. Like what? A senator turned out to have the same effect as if we had earned the tax, perhaps a black job, and will increase the rights of those who do this work, an important job, and perhaps not all of them at table level. There's rights in a pension fund, rights for unemployment, etc. I was going to offer a bill - a little more complicated than I thought, it should be accepted - at the beginning of a council but it didn't work, but hopefully it will. Then we can have this discussion, and I see I have a hawk in the corner, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u70	Madam President. Yeah, yeah. A senator certainly has a hawk in a corner when it comes to such a change. I sure would like to examine them with an open mind. I especially thank you for those words. The senator, who has a positive attitude in examining the bill he puts forth here and may be able to extend it to his household's help and cleaning. I think there's some ideas. The senator to withdraw such services from income taxation institutions very interesting. I have also had a measure of interest in whether we should disseminate authority when it comes to strengthening a charity or a cultural organization. In fact, it could even be encouraged to cut down the amount twice. There are a variety of incentives that can be developed through the tax system. I think financial motivations are important, and I don't think we need to worry in ourselves that we're making the tax system something more complex in the light of potential interests. I can't wait to see more work. That's the case with a senator. There are various ways for us as a community to meet individual classes that may work under the surface, or culture, or charity that depend on the voluntary donations made by companies and people. Then, Madam President, rather than being in the state's hands, it is important that the government be involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u71	Madam President. I happen to be on the Supreme Committee. A financial and economic minister to be examined and to propose a proposal in the next few weeks for the taxable environment of the third sector. The main objective is to consider all the tax environments, the capital tax, the income tax, the value tax, to build under the third sector, to encourage the economy, and to encourage individuals to contribute to these activities and to get some tax advantages. The work is very long, and I hope that it will produce good fruit. But it just so happens that there's another bill I've put out that may come up with a charity or a public community which is a reserve of income tax, but they're laying on capital tax. I've suggested a capital tax from such comrades who may have some small treasure - that is, for example, The rescue teams that are gathering for a rescue ship may be down to several million for several years, but they are taxed by capital tax, and all of this is eaten up. It's not working. I hope so. Senators will support the progress of that case when I am allowed to make a recommendation, but it has already been submitted. But we're about to take a step, I think, a very important step, hopefully in this council winter, when it comes to the third sector and its tax environment, and I'm talking not only about charity or sports society, not only about rescue forces but also about art and culture, museums, etc. It's the whole third sector that's on, and it's one of the most enjoyable projects I've been given, and I've been allowed to get close to a few interesting projects - but a lot of boring.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u72	Madam President. Actually, my question was, "What?" paritaprevir Ágúst, the son of Ólafur, the son of Ágústsson, and the business of women's classes or women, we can say, which is often associated with household affairs. I thought why. A senator will answer that question, and I would especially like to rejoice that there will be a review and more urgent consideration. A senator and the committee to do so. I listened to an answer earlier, and I look forward to discussing these important and enjoyable topics. A senator is working on. I hope these cases get started here. But we also know what it's like with Senate bills. I thought, " What we're discussing here, about 100% reimbursement of construction costs, why wasn't it government business? ' The currently ruling classes, as well as the rest of the hall at government opposition, have come to support such cases in one way or another, whether they were talking about 60% at the time or 100%, so I would have thought the case had been intended for the government to adopt it. This does not mean that I have a lack of confidence. Senator, I believe him and trust in all good works.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u73	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, who is clearly a sponsor of the case and of the subjects I tore into a swamp film. It'll be fun to deal with them in the Senate Hall. But I really wanted me to rule the General Assembly of the State as a whole. I think she'd look a little different, and that's what any member of the board can say at any given moment. Of course, this does not change the fact that as members of the Governing Body, we make certain issues that we stress. It seems that during the past winter, with members of the Independence Party, members of the Independence Party proposed a matter of Congress on the pace of genetic tax division and, of course, wanted to lower the inheritance tax of farms from under 75 million to 5%, controversially. It just so happens that it has come to the U.S. Constitution. The secretary of finance and economics, so I can't wait till I get there. Now the matter is in the hands of the council, this small matter, reimbursement of the value tax from industrial workers at the construction site. It's under the council. I hope that the discussion here is complete and the case goes to the Economic and Business Committee, and I have no reason to believe that there will be good and quick payment. In view of all of this, I think it will pass through the council without any opposition. So optimistic, Madam President, I am.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u74	Madam President. I might have dressed up in a brighter color than I'm doing right now, it's fun to do this. I especially look forward, though it is not this matter, to discussing the working environment of free partners, as well as culture, art, and culture. I think it is of utmost importance to us that a more comprehensive picture is to be set up, especially in the interests of culture and art, here on land. But it's good that the government listens to its own members and makes an excellent statement. That's exactly what I'd have thought was one of the cases that the government would choose to record. In the past, at the meetings of the Party Ministers and members of Congress, they listened to what it would be good to enter a Constitution. But that may have changed. I also find it interesting to see the Constitution. I'm particularly glad that the government is going to cancel the Human Name Committee, because this is where the government's groups decided to put down the Human Name Committee, but now they're making their version. It is obviously important where good things come from, they want to take possession of it themselves. For my part, as long as the case is successful, it doesn't matter who brings it each time. I also see that the government is going to go back to camping wine through the Internet, and I think it's a nice thing too. I hope the Minister of Justice will present this case as soon as possible, that it is not mere formality on the part of the government. I think this is a good example of the Congress's ability to influence the government's lawsuit, and I hope there will be other nice matters, and especially freedom issues. I'd like to encourage you. A senator, who is incarnate with the spirit of freedom, to promote an even greater matter of freedom for the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u75	Madam President. As eager as I am to complete the work we do and to be led by them. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson son of Thor when it comes to the third sector and its total tax environment, art and culture, sports, youth service, charity, etc. It's a little more complicated than we anticipated in the beginning. We felt that this was a relatively simple assignment when we accepted it. Then it turns out it's not exactly like that. But I think we'll be able to finish the job in the next few weeks. I hope that the result will be the result of changing the bills. I'm sure there won't be one bill, definitely not two, not three, not four, it might be quite many, some simple, but others a little more complex. But I think it's important that we discuss them in the overall context. The important thing is that we create the third sector for the environment that enables it to thrive. That's the goal. You're right about what you're doing. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir that members of the board of directors of all administrations certainly have a significant impact on what the government puts forth and what it stresses. That's how this government has been won. That's why we're doing a pretty good job together, thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u76	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for this bill and the rest of it. I'm all for it. In particular, I can support this bill on the grounds that I live in a home that is being rebuilt. It is an old home that kept neither water nor wind. When the cost of rebuilding old housing is about 10% or more of the value of the apartment, we are not talking about small amounts of money. We are talking about 4, 5 or 6 million. For those at the minimum rate or on social security benefits, the cost will be insurmountable. For the rest of us, this is much less. The saddest thing about this is that at the same time that we may be able to finance this without borrowing or borrowing a favorable loan, others may even have to finance it on the pull or on very poor loans. Some are unable to cut back, people who thank for their use of knives and spoons and travel to and from work during the month. I'm asking, "Wouldn't it be possible to expand? " It is one thing that work is demeaning taxation, while it is quite another to be able to afford what needs to be done at all. If a machine is on the toilet or in a kitchen car, it is very expensive to buy new ones. I've only explored it, and it takes millions to renew one bathroom and another to renew a kitchen. Therefore, it is a question of whether this cannot be extended to an extent that those in this society can apply for reimbursement of a value tax, e.g. on devices they need to be able to make newer. In this context, we can point out that there is a huge cost of switching windows, large amounts of money. I would say that it would take a lot of money to buy what is necessary for a house to stay calm and to care for what we have to do in our home. People should be able to apply for precipitation on certain items when they are under the limits of income being able to usually cover the cost. I hope that this case will be included too. As I say, I support this whole mind, people in this situation are extremely important to receive this reimbursement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u77	Madam President. It is possible that the subject of this talk could have been made in two words but because of the recent changes in the Generality, where humans are forbidden to appear, I was so afraid of being expelled from the platform that I decided to put my thoughts ahead of the question. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kámsson. In short, I like this case, and I think that it was one of the few positive steps that the government began to take at the time a merit tax from the pay force of maintenance and work at the construction site. I agree with you, too. A senator - and this I could not have answered - that it was in itself a mistake to take it off in 2015. Now, the one standing here was a collector of many years in the state's treasure and very much in love. That's why I'm willing to do a lot of things to stop a black job and try to draw on the surface as much of the valuable things that happen in this country. For that reason, I'm very fond of this matter. Hopefully, here in Reykjavík will be the city government, which enables people to build themselves and not put up with wealthy people and construction companies who are building predatory apartments in the city center of Reykjavík, all so that their neighbors can ride downtown. I hope that in the near future, the mayor here in Reykjavík allows people to build on themselves again, as has been happening in neighboring communities, such as Mosfellstown and elsewhere. This suggestion is very useful in such activities, so it is very important to deal with it in this way. There is also another factor to consider, and I return to a black job, where it is subject to this. That would be a good idea. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason and his associates are listening to the warning of our Middle Class in trying to keep a black job going. It even came. the other day, in the late afternoon, the best answers. The secretary of finance for the inquiry of the above, that 80 billion can be expected every year. if the economy is quiet without paying for it. The budget bill, even though this is not part of the discussion, does not indicate that there is a real effort to achieve some of these things when stressing money, trying to get that black income. So, of course, I rejoice that there is a proposal here, which is designed to reduce the risk of being a victim of taxes. It has to be said that, although not universal, it seems that it is very difficult to prevent black construction practices. I am not going to hold the whole industry responsible, but it seems that there is a challenge. So I think it's a good thing, and I strongly support proposals presented at the council to help people to help themselves. Therefore, I think this suggestion can be of benefit. In itself, I hope that this case will be successful, but at the same time, I want it directed to a transporter or a vehicle that many are food - free when it comes to black employment. I would very much appreciate it if this same group of people who want to draw black jobs to the surface would help us middleclassmen collect when charged expenses - who would certainly remember a great deal of government funds. It's so strange that when we liberal people see a group of people, we see a group of people. Now, however, it seems that the Independence Party is on the side of the left, and when they see a group of people, they see a tax stock. Surprisingly, this is how the independence party viewed those with whom he has walked to rest in this government. But that is not the case. I think this case could be good, and I hope there's a clear way through the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u78	Of course, the president does not comment on the fact that the members of the council choose to speak rather than object, but in view of the recommendations, the president would like to remind them that the changes made in objections, known as the equivalent, apply to members of the same category. The President is not aware. þm. It's Þorsteinn's stone. þm. Óli Björn Kálmsson is in the same category. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u79	He's coming over.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u80	Until it's presented to the office, this is the question. Councilmen have the right to make an answer to each other, so we're clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u81	A respectable president. I will not extend this discussion much. First and foremost, I want to rejoice that this matter has come to pass and at the same time recognize that I am somewhat ashamed of not putting something comparable in earlier stages. This is in line with our seeing in the Middle Ages that we try to have taxes moderated, and at the same time contributes to the goals set out by most of the people involved in the legislature at the General, reducing construction costs, making the system more transparent, simple collections, and so forth. I'd like to express great pleasure in this case, and I hope that there will be a walk, speed, and swift payment on a committee, and then again through a complete hatch of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u82	President. It's a pleasure to be able to measure here for this bill in order to correct the changing of defense laws. This may be explained to some extent because I can't better see, in my review of the history of these cases here in the country, but when the Allied Council of Iceland was actually not allowed to vote for anything involved in the existence or construction of a foreign army in this country since 1951, when the so - called defense agreement was adopted in this hall and became a considerable controversy there. In view of the fact that for all these decades the United Nations has never given this opportunity, I find a special pleasure in measuring out for giving that opportunity to the United Nations. Because what is this bill all about? Yes, it is all about that all books and additions of the defense agreement should be signed for approval and for any structure and activities beyond the normal maintenance of security and defense areas and the construction of the Atlantic Alliance as well as other projects and structure. In other words, this bill is not in any way a decision on the defence agreement, on the status of an army in this country, or on how to build up an army in this country. It's all about making decisions in this room. Why is this being suggested, Mr. President? Because for all these decades, the primary focus of the question of defense has been the use of words. Building plans have not been discussed until after they have been approved. How can that be? V.E.G. Each time, a foreign minister has the authority to negotiate with the Atlantic alliance on these issues. Since then, the highest. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has a legal agreement with a foreign legal committee that is now and then confidential about these matters. A committee reviews what has been agreed on and then reports this report, both to us and to others in the community. It has been that in recent years, which is kind of embarrassing, so I allow myself to use that word, Mr. President, the report may have come primarily to us when the U.S. Congress agrees with the budget. There is a reason why, in July, every year, a discussion about who should be the proposed structure of a so - called defense area will be discussed. It's because the U.S. Congress is discussing it as a budget. Then the U.S. Congress is getting information about the money to be spent building on a small island in the ocean. As a result, even our colleagues at the U.S. Congress may find even more information about these matters than we, who are still the lawgiver in this country. I hope that this bill is very supportive in this room. This is one of the priorities of the left green, and I am its 1st transporter. Besides me, there's a whisk. Councilmen Ingi In Jónsson, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjolfsdótir, and Árnadóttir Thorjörn Gerjörnótir. Although this is a matter of the fine council of the left green, it should not follow any class lines. This is a matter of promoting democratic discussions about important matters. This issue is also about increasing the way and respect of the Generals and promoting it when it comes to decision making. I've heard a lot of bad guys. The members of Congress speak in this manner, I myself have often done so, that we would like to promote a democratic discussion about the others and these matters, that we would like to increase the way and the quality of the General Assembly. Here, Mr President, is the chance to raise up in the discussion that we all consider important and important, I give myself. We must all feel that it is vital to build up troops in this country, what repairs and books are made to deal with the national and national defenses. Isn't this something that every senator should want to discuss in this room? How will this be fulfilled, Mr. President? Yes, the highest. The minister of the State still has this party on his hands, still fulfills his duties, talks to the relevant members. On the other hand, if they agree on any of the changes outlined here, only this contract needs to be made in advance of the approval of Iceland's legal advisors, i.e. We're the Generals. It is widely known that treaties are made in advance of the rest and this. This is a matter of justice, but it may be primarily democratic. That's why I say again, Mr. President, that people's attitude, their attitude. The members of Parliament, whether there should be an army or not, to see whether Iceland should be part of the Atlantic Alliance or not, is of no relevance to this matter. I believe in that myself. I don't think there should be an army here. I don't think we're supposed to be in the Atlantic Community, but I know there are people sitting here at the General who have an unconvinced opinion that this is even a bigger army than now, even a permanent military base, and looking at membership in the Atlantic Alliance as a national security policy, and it's a approved national security policy here at a Congressroom that's setting it up. However, this bill does not have anything to do with it. Some of them, though they are. People think that all of this is important, if they feel that there is an army here, the rest of them will have the same way to support making decisions there that will be taken here in the hall. We must all at the National Council of Iceland rejoice that this bill will be realized, that in the future we can demonstrate in our position to build an army on the land, or for continued development in cooperation with the Atlantic Alliance by discussing it here, by suing votes, and by making clear what our position is on that subject. President. Just as I have freely accessed the bill, the bill turns to the adjustment of a few articles in defense law. The bill is contained in three articles, i.e. The bill we're talking about here. In a cage. says, with permission of the president: ▪ At 3rd pars. A new paragraph of the law will be added, as follows: All books and additions to the defence agreement shall be signed by the General Assembly. The same applies to due agreements and any agreements that include a change in the implementation of the defence agreement. It is not permitted to deviate from the arrangement on the basis of 2 mg. This article And on 2nd. says: At the section V of the Law, there will be a new article, paragraph 16. a, as well as a heading, as follows: Building up and implementing the constructions of the Atlantic Alliance, etc. All structure and activities beyond the normal maintenance of security areas, defence areas, the construction of the Atlantic Union, as well as other comparable projects and structures, should be carried out under the General Assembly for approval. It is not permitted to deviate from the arrangement on the basis of 2 mg. 3rd gts and 1st And there's a law of value. That is why I, President, say, whatever people's position is on the presence of personnel, troops, and construction workers in the area of defenses, it must be a challenge for all members of the National Council to raise a democratic debate about defenses. It would be possible, Mr. President, to give a long talk about international dramas. But I think I will resist that temptation. It is clear to all of us. It is clear to all of us that as the two major world military forces compete to establish agreements for the construction of military instruments, when more and more people turn their eyes toward the north, even with the military structure in mind, when, in various countries of this world, governments may not always make careful decisions, perhaps not always with Iceland's interests in mind, the interests of peaceful living, the interests of climates. In view of all of this, it must be our challenge to discuss these matters, that we have our voices, and when these matters come, we come to decisions. President. I'll finish my case on this matter and suggest, after a discussion, it will be done to the relevant committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u83	Hv. A committee that would address this case would be confused. State Department.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u84	President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. This is a special matter in many respects, especially since there is now a wave. The senator begins to discuss it here, as the minister of the jury - which is clearly hard to trust, at least it seems to be a lack of communication between the minister of state and the government, according to this bill, because the bill is mainly going out of complaining that there is some lack of communication between them -- do not share information about what action to take to the south of Cheflavour Airport, if I get it right. However, it may not be surprising that the left green should bring such a bill in view of the fact that up until now, it is now repeated in speaking. A senator that the matter does not pertain to the army directly or to the Atlantic alliance has cast his vision completely into darkness when governments have had to be formed in the past few years or decades. So it's not surprising. What I would like to ask the senator about is, did they not try to get this case through the government by any minister or secretary of state asked to deliver such a case because I see that there is no member of the other government party on the case? Does the senator know that the minister of foreign affairs has been introduced on this issue by the left green, which is as if everyone knows a government party in cooperation with foreign ministers? Then I want to pray. A senator explaining to me and to us at the council how normal it is to be maintained according to Article 2. for it refers to the maintenance of security and protection, etc. need to be discussed by the Generals. To make it easier. This is what I ask a senator if a recent project was carried out, a change in air cover, and a washing station for airplanes, would have to happen to the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u85	President. I can't answer for anyone but myself when I say I'm able to look at a matter in terms greater than that it's about characters and players when I talk about it. Thus, in no way is this issue about the person who now has the office of the minister of state, and I know for all I know, that last addition to the books of the defence agreement was not carried out. Secretary of state. It's facing all foreign advisers, including hombre. A senator who once held that office. This is about creating a natural relationship between the legislature and the executive, not about persons and players today, no matter what dates it is today, I have to apologize that I do not remember exactly what day it is today. Yes, it is very easy to fall into the pit of anguish. A senator will do and say: Here is the left green, with all his vision of calm. It is a fact, however, that here at the National Assembly of Iceland, there is only one class that shares these ideals with us, i.e. That Iceland should not be in NATO, and that this is not an army. Yeah, we can call it anything. At least it was decided to participate in government, even though other groups did not agree with us on this. It's not a government case because I'm not a minister and I won this case. This has been introduced - is for improvement, of fingers - the highest. Minister. [[Take it up: It's a good thing.]] I might get to the last thing about normal maintenance, because there's a bit of a complicated question, and I understand it well, in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u86	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. It is a pleasure to see that the senator does not deny that the left green has cast its vision or a policy of involvement in NATO into the darkness, for, of course, everyone sees that this is some kind of footnote in the group when it comes to creating governments. I understood why. However, a senator would have been introduced to the minister of foreign affairs. That's fine. It will be interesting to see his opinion on the matter. I reiterate my question about normal maintenance, where the limit is, because it's really some kind of irritability because of a lack of communication between a minister of state and other ministers in the government or between the administrations. However, it is an excellent procedure at the General Assembly regarding foreign affairs. It is written into certain procedures, and indeed the law, that the Foreign Minister should consult with the Foreign Affairs Committee on major foreign affairs. Then I guess you're gonna ask me what. A senator whether he is talking about the fall of major foreign affairs, e.g. Maintenance of Keflavour Airport.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u87	Madam President. It's okay if it's okay. A senator and others here use this case to try to challenge political cones about being left green in the present government as well as others. That's fine. This isn't about the left green, and if it gives people any benefit of beating on the left green, it's just fine. I've been wide and I'll stick my back and I'll take it. [[Up front.]] This matter is about the respect of the Generals, the raising of the General Assembly, and the promoting of democratic discussions. A regular review of how to do things better, how to deal better with the Commission and the legislature. I have not thought that in all of them there is distrust or a statement that the Ministers or executives in charge of the matter do not do so well. Are we not trying to grow up and get ahead and have things better?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u88	Madam President. I'm not going to discuss my opinion on this bill, I'm thinking about it. An early - speaking person knows about this. It'll come later. But at least I agree with you. one sentence in the report that says, with permission of the highest power. President: ▪ Whatever the attitude of a person to the presence of an army force and to build up workers in the area of defense, it must be a challenge for all to raise a democratic debate over defenses. I agree with this. I think that increasing our discussion of the importance of our cooperation in the Atlantic Community, the importance of the defense agreement with the United States, will enhance our understanding of the importance of our involvement. In this respect, I welcome the bill completely independent of the material content because it is not too often that we have the opportunity to discuss national security and protection policy here. As the discussion progresses further and deeper, the public's understanding becomes clearer, and more is supported by the current course that has been unbroken in recent decades. But I'd like to ask what. " Whether the bill is on the subject of national security may somehow be possible for the bill to go against the national security interest of the nation, " i.e. that there may be some threat to the safety concerns of the Icelanders by this bill and whether it will go against the country's agreed national security policy since 2016. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u89	President. Thank you. A senator resists. In time, we agreed, even though there was only one sentence - that is considerably and narrow. Thank you. A senator for reading this sentence from the report, asks if he also agrees with the next sentence that follows that it somehow captures what was. A senator was saying. [[Up front.]] The General's agreement to change that obligation, i.e. The duties referred to here, which Iceland takes on, also strengthen the foundation of such decisions, whatever they may be. In other words, whoever the general position would be on every occasion the decisions that came in here, whoever it might be, would be. A general council would take the matter into consideration and subsidize them. Hv. A senator asked me two questions, whether the bill could somehow go against national security. For my part, I say I'm not. I have thought of such secret thinking as not a people. I hope it isn't, that it can't be discussed in the Council of the Isthmus. On the other hand, I expect that's what. The Foreign Affairs Committee will get reviews on the subject and discuss it this way, and then something will be possible. I'm not an expert on how troops operate. No, we transporters feel that the bill is in no way opposed to the approved national security policy because it's about who makes the decisions, not what decisions are.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u90	Madam President. It's fine that I'm clear about that, if I understand why. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttirsson Proppér correct, that when the movers prepared the bill they looked to the national security of the country and concluded after analysis that there was nothing in the bill against the national security of the country, security of the country, and there was nothing in the bill that went against the approved national security policy. Nothing. I just want it to be, Mrs. President, that my understanding was confirmed by the senator, that when the bill was written, these two factors, the national security of the country in general and wide understanding, and the course adopted by all the senators who voted on a different board, were adopted in April 2016.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u91	President. It's nice to repeat things. That's how they filter in, possibly. I can confirm at what. This bill was considered to be inconsistencies with the national security policy of the country by a senator. Again, do I repeat that in national security policy it is stated that NATO County is one of the cornerstones of foreign policy - isn't that the word used? This isn't a story about the NATO party, just in no way. Even evidence might be presented that it would strengthen national security policy, a world of Congress decided to accept something related to this when it comes to a vote at the Assembly Hall. So that's a decision made with approval here at the Congress Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u92	Madam President. This is worth all the attention. This is a priority, it has been identified before, with left green, and of course it is respectable. It is always good when members of a body, whether in a government or in a position of government, put forth effort and dare to reveal their priorities. I can, on the basis, strongly agree that we are expected to promote the coming of the council. We are to promote these communications as well as ensure the order between the State Department and Foreign Minister on increasing communication and intelligence. This information has not been given to the minister of foreign affairs, and I am a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee. It has been more necessary to push every piece of information into the matter than to give it the initiative of the State Department to the State Department. I hope that the thought is that it does not exist in a left - green doll to put fear at the root of a certain military structure to take place today. There's a lot of things changing on the watch of the left green. I hope this case stems from a sincere interest in left greens in furthering national security discussions. And we need to start getting closer to defense in a way other than the Cold War, it just has to be said right now. We will consider this matter very carefully, and there will not be any future restoration regarding the payment of the case. It will be interesting, however, to see what the representatives of the Independence Party do with the State Department. If this case prompts us to put up a fight for further improvements in the defense agreement, an addition to national security, an addition of enormous importance to Internet security, and much less to climate, we will be putting in an Annex on climate issues based on Icelandic and Icelandic views rather than U.S., on the basis of a great deal of work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u93	President. Now, in a few moments, I agree with those who come to my attention - and I hope this falls outside the famous rule. That in itself does not surprise me. I know why. The senator is a sincere amateur for promoting a democratic discussion, so I am not surprised to hear her support for the idea that the discussion will be done more in this room and that decisions will be made here. Hv. One senator wondered about a purpose in making a bill, whether it belonged to a house bridge, or was caused by a sincere interest, and he said that he hoped that it would not exist in a home bridge. I think I have, at least in two debates with a why. A senator, just as I'm going to do this for the third time: this case is not proposed to any domestic bridge - I'm simply not clever enough to have realized the possibility - but is put forth by sincere interest. You see, I completely agree with that as a dog. A senator said that the matter needs to be further developed. I'm thinking of that as a matter of course. A senator may be able to find a similar line on our harps regarding some of these matters. In some respects, there may be inconspicuous strings. I've just considered an old - fashioned thought too much of defense, and I want to connect it like any other climate. I hope I'm not missing some question; why. A senator will then enter her. But at least I have a clear purpose for this bill, which is growing this discussion and the importance of its Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u94	Madam President. I want to thank you for your clear answer. I'd like to continue with the questions. I tried to get the answers from previous queries. First, since this has been presented to the minister of foreign ministers: What is his view on the matter? It was noted in another case earlier that some members of Congress will be a government case, and if this case does not exist at home: Does the senator believe that this matter will eventually fall into the state council case next year, possibly through the left green? Then I would like to ask if the senator will see that a foreign matter committee will have access to data and information on national security related to both the member of the project and the secretary of state. I'm glad we agreed we should discuss more security and defense issues in a new light. So many signs are on the rise today that we must start dealing with things other than the ones present in the defense agreement. There are various things that require us to take a more thorough discussion, both in the Hall of Congress and in the Foreign Affairs Committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u95	President. This is a question of the state minister's attitude. I think there must be a conversation at the highest level. Minister himself. I sincerely hope to the highest. The minister of foreign affairs has a view similar to that of his party brother. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, who spoke here just a minute ago. Do I have the hope that this case will be held in the Constitution or in a government covenant next year? No, I have no chance of doing that. I have every hope that the case will be adopted during the current council, and it doesn't have to be reassigned. You see, I already believe that. According to members of Congress, they want to advance the matter of defense, that they want the road and the quality of the Generals as much as any part of their decision making. Therefore, Mr. President, I believe this case will simply be accepted. I have to confess to myself. I've never been on the State Department. I don't quite trust myself to comment on my ideas on easy access to the branch office's records. I'm just saying I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u96	Madam President. I'm not going to have many words in this discourse on this matter, and I'm just here to state support. I think it's a good thing, and I expect and I hope that this can form a parapolitic arrangement because it's natural to increase the share of the legislatator, the legislature, in making decisions in these important matters. I personally believe that Iceland, and I feel that this case supports it, should be a valid member of the national community, and that Iceland should share in international cooperation with the nations with whom they share fully and with full pride. I'm totally against the way you sometimes feel about it that people think that Icelanders are supposed to be some sort of stowaways in the world, they're somehow going to smuggle themselves into something big-wheat and live on them and be with them, because the big bangs can be very dangerous. What a small nation needs in international relations is that there are clear rules and that clear rules and that a small nation can count on the fact that big nations also follow that rules. True, we are islands, but in countless matters, we are closely linked to other nations. It is a natural network, a complex international network that we cannot avoid participating in. There I believe we are to join the nations that share with us cultural history, cultural heritage, ideals, and democratic traditions. Then I'm talking about Western democratic nations, I'm talking about European nations, I'm talking about northern European countries, I'm speaking of the northern countries of Europe. Therefore, I believe the Icelanders are fully doomed by sharing in such cooperation as NATO and that they can do it entirely on their terms, but not on the grounds of the United States as Iceland has overemphasized in my opinion, since the first time. Then I come to what I wanted to do in connection with this matter, and it is that from the very moment the defence policy was developed here, following our independence in 1944, and then in 1949 and 1951, we all know it, the shape of the policy has gone too much into some sort of thing, what a man should say, perhaps not snooping, but there have been very few who have made very important decisions about the nation and have had a fundamental impact on how our society has developed. There has truly been a lack of counsel, as would have been the case. Perhaps, following the war, men could refer to all sorts of visible things in the world. The Cold War was then going on. At that time, the expansion and attacking of the Soviet empires in Europe was widespread, and it was a reason for caution against this, but there are other times. This is not the year 1949. Today, it is not 1951. Today, in 2019 we are faced with the greatest threat of human society and us as a nation. This is the biggest threat and will be faced only in cooperation with countries and internationally. Of course, there are also many types of security threats, the threat of terrorism, and so on. All the threats are compatible with the fact that they will be dealt only with in good cooperation with nations, which we must join with with the head. We are not to rely on the United States, as we have overcrowded all our independence. At present, the United States government is not in such a way that it is too high to rely on, and it has actually been so long. I'm not only talking about the current U.S. government, I think, as well. That the support of the invasion of Iraq at one time was extremely misleading and false. I think the problem proved that this invasion was a mistake. There are many forms of air pollution in the world, and I think it's important that we deal with them in cooperation with nations. I also think it's important that the elected representatives of the public in this country come to make decisions about the defenses and the military structure of this country, so I support this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u97	Madam President. I'm probably not the most patient person in the world, and sometimes I'm too quick. At least I asked to respond. A senator because I felt that I needed an explanation for his position, which he then brought. I'd still like to take advantage of this opportunity to talk to you about it. A senator. First, though, I'd like to start by thanking you. A senator's speech. I think he sums up what I entered and hoped would happen, that, regardless of people's attitude toward being in the Atlantic Union, this matter could be supported. But I cut to the ear. A senator said that he wanted Iceland to be a competent member of the national community, not a small party that slips between them. I can totally agree with what. A senator on this matter. But I would like to ask. A senator whether he considers it to be e.g. not party to the Atlantic Alliance contradicts failure to be a valid member of the international community. We have a wide range of dealings and cooperation with countries and countries around us, and perhaps we might consider discussing these matters that countries such as Austria, Finland, Sweden, Switzerland, and Ireland are not part of the Atlantic Community. But I can't think for one second at a time. A senator believes that these countries are not competent members of the international community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u98	Madam President. That was a pretty good question. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, Ottar's son Proppér, and he almost made me home dirty and good if he didn't just succeed. I'm just not sure at all because it's growing up. It is not clear at all that Iceland is to be part of a military alliance. It is far from obvious, especially because the Icelanders have no authority to bring an army. However, they have their place in the world. Icelandic society is located in the location where it is, and that location was extremely warlikely important during the Cold War's era and it's going to be again, as we all know by opening up the north and then on the streets. This position is of utmost importance, and there are many who look here and many who can just imagine possessing that land. True, we haven't had any offers to buy Iceland like Greenland, but we can expect that at any moment. What do you know? But the location makes many people want land and facilities here, even eating certain flavors to cross the country. What do you know? So I think it's very good to be in shelter, to be in the great shelter of nations, European nations, who share with us cultural heritage, as I have come to the past, and to share with us ideals and democratic tradition that I find so important.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u99	Madam President. In itself, I don't have much to add. I'm actually into what I'm not going to do, discussing a position on member of the Atlantic Alliance. As I've said, it doesn't matter to me when it comes to this. I'm gonna reiterate my thanks to you for what. Senator. I don't necessarily expect him to come up and answer me if he wants to avoid it. I am particularly pleased to have members of the United States for discussion on these matters, because I have thought so and appeared in summer and fall in discussions about how to build on a centrally ill subject. Senators have strong opinions about this. So I'm glad that members of the Parliament are involved in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u100	Madam President. I don't have much to add. It's probably a matter of fact, it's all the time, and we're always supposed to be putting questions in our war policy. I reiterate what I said earlier that associating with a military alliance is a difficult thought, even a repugnant thought, in many respects, but it is logical when the matter is viewed cold. You're right. A senator says that a member of the nations without being involved in a military alliance can, of course, be valid. However, our position on earth is in this way, as well as that of the nation's lowly size and lack of warfare, so it is good to have a measure of shelter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u101	Madam President. I hardly need to say that being one of the couriers of this case, I am also a firm supporters of it. I believe it is extremely important that the Council have much more access to what is going on in the security area of Chefavík. It's been traced here, the 1st Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, the way it's all become an object of the highest nature. Secretary of State tells the State Department what has already been determined, including ... andwe addedto our defense agreement. This makes it impossible to do in that position afterwards. Therefore, I think it is very important to get this discussion ahead of time and that there can be an exchange between opinions and even to determine whether the changes in the right things are being made or the bad and why they feel that they are either right. I don't think it matters just for us at the Council, that we have something to say, but it's also about the fact that the debate is closer to the public in this decision-making process, and the public can be more alert to our arguments as their elected representatives when it comes to this series. I wholeheartedly agree with what has been pointed out to be the source of this matter regardless of the attitude toward Iceland's being in NATO. We in the left motion have been criticized for the fact that military structure takes place on our watch. In this context, I would like to point out that this is a follow-up for decisions made in 2016, if I remember correctly. At that time, I was sitting on the Foreign Affairs Committee, and I certainly objected to what had been done about an Annex on the Defense Treaty and would have liked more. Senators would have agreed with me, but it wasn't, and it was fine, it was just like that. But I think the discussion would have been quite different if she had conducted here at a Senate Hall and not just at a meeting of the State Department. Madam President. This discussion has pointed out that international issues are increasing and that is true, and I believe that again and again there is evidence to support this issue. Where there is light, we should discuss these matters more and more frequently here in the Hall of Congress. The climate has also been established and discussed that these issues need to be discussed with them. I agree with you too. I would like to point out that just under the cover of military issues, not only in Iceland, but in every part of the world, it is extremely difficult to provide information on the pollution of warfare. Those who are accompanied by our being in military alliance law can argue that the air and the pollution of warfare and everything that is armed with war are necessary, and that is evidence of that. But we have no idea what these numbers are and how much pollution is. I've tried to call for information as to what is expected to be a high level of emissions or pollution because of the air cover that takes place from the Keflavour Airport. I haven't been able to get any numbers on that. Unlike what is taking place on a general flight, aircraft that can fly as much as possible as possible as possible as possible when it comes to warfare are designing planes that can achieve the most power and reach as short a time as they can and burn tremendous amounts of fuel to achieve it. This may be less spoken, and as I said, it is extremely difficult to get information about it. Therefore, I believe this matter, which is about getting the discussion into the conference hall and that all books and additions, the changes made in the defence agreements as well as the changes made in the security area, are discussed here and supported by calling out this information. This really rhymes with what has been called after from this hall, just earlier today, in a special discussion on climate matters, about everything being done in relation to climate. I feel that this case can be directly linked to that discussion. Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion. I hope that this case will be settled at the General Assembly and that it will be approved for the people's good.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u102	Madam President. I'm going to extend this discussion, but not much. I just wanted to state my joy as the first member of this case with the discussion that arose about it today. I thought it was a matter of business. Various views were drawn, but perhaps notably the key, i.e. ... thatthe attitude toward Iceland's presence in the Atlantic Alliance, the presence of an army on the land, should have no effect on the will of a man. Congress to support the bill, to want more democratic discussions on the matter of defense, and to improve the way of the Generalis to make decisions there. I must say, though, that I have been slightly disappointed in the fact that a lot of people have. While members of the council that I have seen either on social media or on photons, or even seen that there have been strong opinions about the structure of an army in this country have not been able to participate in this discussion, I trust that they will show their support when it comes to the payment of this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u103	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill for a change in agricultural products, No. 99/1993, with subsequent changes (cattle station in the meat industry). This bill was submitted to the last legislature, 149th legislature, and is now reassigned. The movers are the ones that stand here, the Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson and Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, i.e. The Congress party of the forward party. 1st par. The bill reads: ▪ After 71st. par. There's a new article in the law, 71 st. A, as follows: Despite the requirements of competitive legislation, the products of the meat industry are permitted to unite, make an agreement on workmates, and have other cooperations to maintain the cost of production, storage, and distribution of meat products. Information on such agreements and cooperation should be provided for ministerial servants for information. What is the purpose of presenting such a bill? I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is one of the priorities of the Agency's conference so that it is not just the imagination of a local farmer who is what some would call a great retreat, but we believe that it is necessary to meet the challenges ahead of us in Icelandic agriculture, and in this case we are dealing with the meat industry. Today's products in the meat industry are forbidden to agree on anything. It is forbidden to agree on supply management, forbidden to own in prices, etc. All consultations are forbidden. We all know the discussion that arose in the summer when the dirges of all lambs were burned up in the country, and the store demanded that a lamb be brought in from abroad. Then, as the day went by, there was plenty of spine, so the minister did not want the store to drop a temporary complaint on the back of a lamb. In this context, much of the talk was made about the lack of responsibility in the front of winter for exporting dilka meat, thigh, spine, in part, and thus for the market to be free of lamb's backwaters. But if only we look at these things from the viewpoint of those who are employed in peddling lamb, i.e. and what if we had had had had the source mentioned here, the exception of competitive laws, and the products could have worked together, pondering the situation, taking the position of what the market might need - this discussion would probably never have gone on the air either. Then we'd have a supply control. You wouldn't be moving too far about the product expected to be available to Icelanders. We must not forget, too, that circumstances are greatly altered in market competition and in changing toll agreements. We covered in spring on a so-called raw meat bill. All external circumstances have changed differently from e.g. 2030 years ago. The crops and farmers are having a hell of a competition with big business abroad. Icelanders are competing at 500 million people markets, and we have 3,700,000 of them on a global scale. For fun, the discussion of this subject suggests that British exits are now being carried out by the European Union. It was in the news the other day, with a contract in force where Britain has been in the European Union, that the British have moved to Europe's mainland nine million lamb's socks within their toll agreements. It is expected that something will change when the British are replaced by the European Union, and I expect the British to look for their products. That's not just lamb. We're talking about 9 million lamb's shoes. We're producing 550,000 in Iceland. It's only 9 million lamb's socks of what they have to move out of their homes. Most people wonder, " Is this world scene and the market in Iceland where meat products work is completely different? ' So I think it's a very big deal for food production to get this warrant. We talked earlier today about climate issues. It was often in our discussion that we would need to promote food production in Iceland, that we should look closer when we wondered what we were going to buy for food and get the groceries from the surrounding environment. It is one of the purposes of this bill to create a position on the market that allows us to serve the market that we are assigned to serve in a local market. This is clearly in the mind of transporters'interests for farmers and consumers. This is clearly an increase in Icelandic grocery markets. I would like to point out that we know similar examples very well from the milk industry. That is where this exception has been for many years. It was a economic crisis, and it has largely contributed to improved products in the milk industry - good for consumers and good for farmers. I believe that the same thing applies here, and I'd also like to remind you that we're not just dealing with red meat or lamb. It's all under here, pigs, cattle and birds. Mr. President. Finally, I expect there to be some discussion about this subject. I hope so. The job committee, which gets the case discussed, is now doing it with great force, for as people investigate the matter further, I believe that it will be a far more positive factor for our legal fixation, that the products of the carnivorous industry will be avoided by competitive laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u104	A respectable president. I thank a senator for the talk that was delivered and welcomed. This case is quite similar to the one here spoken in September 2017. The text is almost identical in that fine language. In fact, it contained another article to deal with the situation back then, but that does not change the situation, whoever presented the matter first, that it is good. I think it's best to agree at the council, because it's very important that farming, one of the most important articles in Iceland and me, sit at a similar table or similar situation, let's put it this way, to compete with the import. Icelandic agriculture today has a foothold on the import, not quality, not because the product is worse, it's much better, i.e. Icelandic production, but because we are offered products produced in large factories in Europe or elsewhere, we hardly know where they actually come from, which are produced under economic conditions. We produce our agricultural products in relatively small areas, in fact, tiny in comparison with many foreign households. That is why we can offer wholesomeer, better, and better products. We need to watch, however, the fact that the products are also tiny in comparison with similar production units or products from abroad, tiny ones, and though they would all be united, they would remain tiny. This is an environment that must be fixed. Hv. A member of the matter spoke well of the tremendous change in the work of the milk industry when the cooperation was permitted there. It would seem that if not done, the status of farmers and products would be far worse than it is today. No doubt the advance would be much less than it is today. What has happened is that with practicality and management, we have been able to make the luxury of living, I'm going to say, the variety of goods and the quality of goods. Therefore, to achieve a steady supply of goods, we need to authorize a specific partnership in the meat industry too. Of course, certain responsibilities involve working together. The milk industry is not living in some void. He must fulfill certain obligations, which in many respects are very strict regarding goods and prices. For example, free prices on all products are not available. It's a financial committee -- which you miss a little off of, we might come to that later, on July 1, but a minister hasn't yet finished, and as a result, the law has not been accepted and the law that counts it. You wonder why the prices committee has not been appointed. This is an item that determines the price of agrienvironmental products and products. That's even. because the system was installed to make sure that there was always a certain amount of goods and that the price must be valid, etc. Farmers, producers, or products do not complain of accepting certain responsibilities. However, we need to keep the environment in order to have a good supply, to keep it steady, and to be fair. But what also comes out of these things, if the economy works out and makes sense, then the economy doesn't have to lead to a lack of prayer. It can lead to more increase in the money the farmers receive from their produce. More is left in their pocket with the farmer. If you look at the history of the milk industry, I think that this has just given you a greater witness today than they were a few years ago, of course they have declined. It's like everything's going on. Technology progresses and generation change markets or production units. There are fewer cows than larger, and they produce more. It's something that in itself is just normal evolution. The carnivorous industry is to live in the same environment that the milk industry knows. I would like to use this opportunity to mention whether it is worth noting to wonder if it would also require looking at competitive laws, in view of the fact that the Governing Body seems completely ignoring the Will of the Generals when it comes to the milk industry. Time and again, we have seen the agency doing everything it can to break down the arrangement that the General Assembly agreed to have on this industry, to have the food production, which the Council thought would be necessary in this way for consumers to get good products, steady supply at reasonable prices, and that producers, both farmers and harvest stations, could have a good environment, let's put it this way. This cooperation has also resulted in the growth of goods, the growth of innovation in the milk industry. I allow myself to mention the company's health proteins in Skavegur, where my family and I have lived. There are man in a huge environment that uses products that have so far slipped into the sea and produced protein powder and ethanol. There would be nothing wrong with this if it wasn't for them to work together. You can pick up the raw materials from around the country, and it works and is new there. That's the way you keep counting. I think that's the kind of environment we live in that field that we have to be in this way. So I'll come back that it's just like that, no matter what the agency's name is, it's got to respect the lawgiver's will. She hasn't, in this case. So I have reason to believe that it would be necessary to look at the bodies of the Contestant Council to simply sharpen and explain what the ideal institution should do and what not happen when it comes to agriculture. A respectable president. I hope the case is established at the council, and it will be agreed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u105	Mr. President. It is not simple to discuss the bill that is available here, the bill for the change in agricultural products. I realize the aims of transporters, and I think I understand correctly why this bill is presented, which is to strengthen the foundation of sheep farmers, and thus, in many parts of the country. In this respect, the bill's objective is a little noble--not a bit, that's noble. However, the bill is a major defect. I'd like to make it clear that there's any evidence that it's going to turn up in its resistance and that it's gonna come down on farmers for a long time. It's not the best thing for farmers to put the law in such a way that it runs, for example. Just one exit stop. It is not the interests of farmers, nor is it the interests of consumers. It's for obvious reasons that I think there's no need to discuss why. The interests of farmers should rather be in increasing the number of farm produce and the number of farmers who are competing for farming products. The interests of consumers suggest that there are self-employed products, not financially connected, and not in close cooperation so that there are no boundaries between them. This will lead to a lower price to consumers, not just to consumers, but to much more goods and more products development. So I'm about to achieve this bill in advance for the interests of farmers for a table. In the long run, farmers will not enjoy the economy they are seeking by allowing crops to unite in the way suggested here. I don't talk about the fact that no economy is put forward, as was done in the milk. I have claimed that it is necessary to reevaluate the entire competitive principle and that part of this review should involve the setting of the agriculture directly under competitive laws so that we stop arguing whether the agriculture will be competitive or not. There would be only rules of competition, clear regulations on agriculture. I think for consumers and farmers themselves, that is the wisest thing in the long term. Another thing I'm worried about is the shape of a farmer, the image of farmers when they're opening that door that here will be just one person who's doing all the work that comes to the products, just one big company. I suppose--no, that's what's going to happen, my dear friend. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, if you open up for a power-to-end-of-the-art operation to unite regardless of everything and you don't have to do anything but report it to a Minister as suggested here in the bill, that's what's going to happen. It won't happen next year, it won't happen in two, but it will happen in the future. And it will not strengthen the position of farmers. However, it will weaken her. Thus, the bill begins to bite its own tail and its noble targets. That's why I think it's very important, when it happened. This bill is being considered and discussed by a professional driving committee, that these factors will be viewed in exactly the same way. In time, what does this really mean? It is not enough to look at the situation just as it is today but also to try to assess the effect, as it is possible. No one can predict the future, but the chances of what happens when we accept certain laws so that we know exactly what we are doing. And then there are two questions, just two questions, as well. A professional health committee needs to know the answers. How does this bill, by law, by farmers, affect sheep in particular, and by what means does it affect the land? This is the first question. The second question is, How does this affect Icelandic consumers? The answers to these two questions must be clear before the bill is approved at the council. These are the tips I wanted to put out, the highest. President. I hope so. These questions and many other material topics are addressed by a professional committee and presented in the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u106	Mr. President. I want to come up here and thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for an excellent speech. I felt that he was about to go to the core of the matter. I agree with a senator that I will respect them. Councilmen involved in this matter, for the purpose is noble, trying to promote the opportunities and opportunities for farmers to get more for the products, to promote themselves more fully in another difficult environment. But I am convinced of that, as it were. Senator, this is not the way. Therefore, it is accurately stated by the senator that on a professional committee, we need to ask how this bill will eventually provide farmers with a more practical environment than it is now, the benefits it will bring to farmers. And the second question is natural to consumers. I can agree with that, too. A senator's need to reevaluate much of his competitive conduct and review it as a whole. But this must not be the basis for us to take the terms of extramaritals that are now produced by the Galaxama - it has established an absolute monopoly on a milk market - making them a general rule. I think that the principle applies to all industry in Iceland, basic jobs such as agriculture and other employment sectors, and that's my question. A senator does not agree with me in that the common competitive law on such articles as others. We can then pick up support and support systems for farmers in another field, and I think we can do much better in a livestock contract. As long as there will be more targeted support now, we will never be excluded from supporting farmers. Current support, in some cases in poverty trap, sets a trap for farmers but does not add to their ability to act in a different environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u107	Mr. President. There is no debate that the rest of the milk industry has since competitive law - we can have a view of whether they are to be or not - have produced no more industry in Iceland in the last 103/415 years than the milk industry, farmers, and products. Of course, it cannot be overlooked. Nor will it be impossible to overlook the fact that we have seen a new company, an eagle on the West Seafjording in such a spectacular way that 40% of the people claim to buy its products. I find that truly amazing, despite MS's superior status. These are the facts that we need to keep in mind. What I'm saying, however, is that in reevaluating a competitive song, I think it's right to put a special chapter into the competitive principle of the competitive environment that we believe is right and normal to the value of Icelandic agriculture. There is evidence, though only a national safety argument, a food security argument, that it may not be the exact same exact competitive policy as any other area. [[Up front.]] It's a discussion we're supposed to take. It is vital that we realize that there are advantages and weaknesses in having such an extravagance as in milk. [[The president calls.]] To me it would be better if it were clearly inside the competition.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u108	Mr. President. This is about to become interesting, and this has to be straightened out. I get it. A senator rightly, that he supports the current noncombatant arrangement from common competitiveness in a dairy market or not? Does he support the current milk market arrangements? I want less of it. There have been some conclusions made by a member of the Parliament at the Independence Party meeting, including the U.S. ... becausegeneralfloor laws apply, including agriculture, here on the land. I sense that the plan is to change competitive policies so that the lack of competition can be reasoned on the land and that it will not fall under any competitive principle if we act competitively. I'm about to be slided by two masks. I want a clear answer from what. Senator. Did I understand him right? Does he support that, on the basis of unchanged legislation, according to the same condition, not the Lactsals and its terms remain to be on the part of a people in the Icelandic environment? Does he believe that we should not change things when this happens, that the arrangement will continue as we experience it? Despite seeing a powerful enterprise like Eagle, however, should one company have an absolute monopoly on the market? It's not for farmers. It's not for consumers. That arrangement needs to be reassigned, just as we need to do in a certain exposition of the sheepfolds and make it more practical to make farmers more free of the monopoly that I hope will be. No longer supported by a senator. [[The president calls.]] I hope I come to the realization that he agrees with me that the general principle of competition should apply, rules that don't promote competition.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u109	Mr. President. The fact that I bring out the facts, including about the tremendous growth that has taken place in the Icelandic milk industry, in farms, and in farms, more than any other profession shows, does not mean that I agree that the milk industry is to enjoy its present status. I'm just pointing out the obvious, that when we discuss these matters, we should also realize that there are certain facts. It is a measure of success, and we need to ask ourselves: " Is change for the interests of farmers and consumers? I'm convinced that it is. I am, for example. Convinced that the level of work should be definitively cut off between collection of milk and waste products, i.e. That milk should be collected by an independent partner, most likely owned by the farmers themselves, and that company sells the milk products to the harvest stations. This may contribute to further productions and competitions on farm products. That's what I think we should talk about. That doesn't change the fact that I want Icelandic agriculture to fall under the competitive law. But I also state that there may be evidence that there are certain laws that are specific to agriculture but that do not apply in other business areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u110	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for a good and pleasant speech. That's right. We don't discuss agriculture enough, and we don't think we can do enough to promote it. There were many interesting points in his speech. I'd like to ask him a little bit about the point of simply changing the competition. As far as I can remember, we've contributed to changing the competitiveness of this bill. We were told that it might be difficult to deal with mutually competitive laws within the EEA Convention, etc. I suppose that's what I'm gonna do. A senator is more informed of this factor than I am. I would very much like to know the answer to that question. Hv. A senator also came to the fore in the bill on the carnivore products in the carnivore industry when discussing the products of the milk industry. What results have been obtained there? Admittedly, the value of farming products is higher. Product company, goods selection, product development, etc. and has increased, and the price of the consumers is good. I have justified myself. They receive excellent goods for good. It is in itself the idea that is behind, exactly the same, only looking to it. But I'm not going to say no, because a professional worker's committee is going to try it out, look it over it well, and work it properly, but not just put it under a chair as it was done a year ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u111	Mr. President. I just feel like a third-floor layman talking to a top league player when it comes to farming, having a place to talk to. paritaprevir Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson. [[Set forward: Under the rule of international judges.]] Yes, under the rule of the international court, the President himself. One of the things I think about is, " Why has the situation of dairy farmers, if we speak in general, of course not the same way in recent years or decades, but at the same time the situation of sheep farmers has been weakened? ' Why have there been so much greater - amazing products in the dairy industry that have not reached meat products? What are some of the reasons why this is so? I don't think that the reason for this is that milk industry is the exception of competitive laws, as it is suggested here. I think the main reason is rather that men made the wise decision to say goodbye to production in milk. Unfortunately, when it comes to sheep farming, people are going the other way, and I think they need to be looked at. In terms of the duties and responsibilities we've had at the EEA Convention, and whether we can build the specific rules for agriculture into competitive legislation, I'm not aware that there is one or anything in the EEA Convention that prevents us from improving the environment of agriculture in a manner that we believe is the most reasonable and competitive way to achieve it, because that is what I think is to serve the interests of farmers and consumers best. But further research may be needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u112	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer from what happened. Senator. What's third-third? I can't agree with that. We might be able to talk a little bit more about a·lin casso, or something like that. But for all laughs, Eagle was only mentioned earlier in Bolungarvík. Hv. In his speech, a senator also mentioned that we should just increase the number of products in meat. That's how I understood it. Then he took note of Arna in Bolungarvík. As an aid in the discussion of the Eagle in Bolungarvík, the agreement is between the small and the great, which in this case is the Lactsals, a contract that turns on the transport of raw particles, from farmers in the bus station, and also a contract, that I know, best of all, between the Eagle and the Lactates, that the raw materials that are not used in her production are taking care of the Velcro. So all the talk about the big guy kicking the little one, etc. There is no evidence to support the use of antiretroviral agents. I believe in it - and I believe it until I see something else that can hold my hand on evidence - that exactly the same thing can happen at carnivores in the meat industry when we drive them over to the Velacts. The exact same thing is to be seen, i.e. That the farmers' profit themselves, and the profit of the consumers also.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u113	Mr. President. We're totally on the same page. We agree on our objective. We agree completely on our objective. The purpose is two things to me, and I'm determined to do it. A senator was there too. On the one hand, we need to strengthen the position of farmers, make them real independent from their employers, as I have done more than once that in this platform, because farmers are the independence of their employers, and they are to enjoy their position and we are to build up for them financially, enabling them to pursue an independent business, which is a business in this case. Then there is the other goal of caring for consumers' needs, ensuring high - quality goods at as low as possible. These are our goals. I say: This bill does not reach their goals, either of its goals, either to support farmers or their financial standing, or to consider consumer interests. I've certainly spoken in vague terms or indicated that I felt that there should be a growing number of products in the carnivorous industry. That's not what I mean. True, I don't think I am or am. A senator and a carrier can state what is the most efficient number of stations. I'm just saying that the worst conclusion for all of us is that we're starting a way of possibly developing a case so that there's actually only one stop. That's the worst conclusion, and that's what I'm afraid of if such a bill is going to be done. That's why we need a good reason. Work committee to do a lot of work. But our goals are clear, and we agree with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u114	Mr. President. That is an interesting discussion. I listened attentively to a talk. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son back there, and I thought it was excellent. But then it happened. A senator, in effect, answered himself and tore down what he had been talking about in his talk. The combined effect of the talk and the counter here is that I'm a little bit more confused than I was before. A senator lifted his voice, but it's not his fault, that's probably me. But there were two reasons why I was at odds with the language. paritaprevir Kárason Björn's son. He pointed out that since milk production in Iceland and milk distribution were most available on one hand - indeed, the collection in a special society called "Furtrum, " that is another matter - had a local prayer of milk, probably with some exception, improved much. No man in my ears has expressed the influence and benefit of taking the milk industry away from competitive laws better than the father of Jónasson. a former senator. In a speech, he said that using the economy, I'm saving - I think I'm going to get the right ratio - 3 billion a year. Two for consumers and one for farmers. He simply put it this way. If we could foresee a similar situation, such as Sheep products I think we could enjoy. So the man standing here is an old slaughterhouse driver, and so I'm a little obliged. In fact, I've never had my life for anyone will understand why it is difficult for a man to sell Icelandic lamb, either within the country or abroad. It is not only difficult for us to move out - and it is not of nothing; in large sheep production countries such as New Zealand, consumption has been linked by two thirds to three quarters, which means a natural increase in the pressure on export, increased competition - but a number of distractions. It is now that farms with sheep products are usually owned by farmers. Yet, the products at times seem to be the worst enemy of farmers. Why do I say that? I say this because I think it was probably three years ago when a farmer's price was taken down by 30% on one board, if I remember correctly - and I think that many of his employees in Iceland would be shocked if he suddenly saw his salary before September that his salary was 30% less than in August - it wasn't very long where they went. Then it turned out: This 30% ran to the demolition stations. I have a measure of sympathy for this bill, and it would be either because it comes from much of the Middle Class's carpenter, and it in itself would be bad not to accept it. On the other hand, it's going a little short, I think. In the bill and/or its derivatives are missing, e.g. section on the need for source marks. To gather all the products into one pot is easy in milk; we buy a quart of milk, and it is about Just like it, no matter where it comes from. But there is another thing about lamb. Those who appreciate it want to know where it comes from, and it's not the same from everywhere. Therefore, the farmers who are successful are to be rewarded by enabling people to know where the product is from. Similarly, if I recall correctly, close to 30 different classes of lamb. But if I go to the store to buy a thigh, I can't pick from 30 classes of lamb fleas, like that. I'm kind of dosed, I can't choose flesh-filled or fat. I'm just packed one thigh in a plastic wrapper. In fact, there is a great improvement between the sawing of meat and throwing it into a piece of building into a freezer, and then the next six, seven months later, it was gritty. I naturally hope that's over. But in this, the chapter is missing, as I say, the market end is guaranteed and the product development. It's so interesting that it took a foreign company to come here in Iceland to learn how to cut the pork chops thick. Amazing, but true. British butchers had to come to Iceland to teach the story of cigarette chops. There's trouble with moving out a lamb's ridge to America, people can't count the ribs correctly, so the lamb's backs are never the same. Marketing and product development is very lacking in products. But then it came out here, e.g. ... ina matterwhat. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son, to reexamine the competitive act. That's where we're at. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason is a hearty man. Also, it cannot be normal for a single - handed distribution of this meat to end much of it. That's not enough. According to a recent example, just a month ago or so, it seems that the traders'organization has a real problem with farmers. What did they try to do four or six weeks ago? Yes, they were willing to move in a two - or - three - year - old ridge across the world to sell on some weight because they thought that cigarette chops were missing in Iceland, which was a misunderstanding. But this is also sanctified by means of means of sheep's products. That's what I've criticized, actually asking a question last year, but I didn't get an answer from the highest level. Ministers of the marine road and agriculture. What parts of each time were available through the sales season was not set out. If they are not aware of what is available from each product, how will the marketing work be run? How on earth? Despite this bill's well - paying value, trying to look for the management we know from the milk, the lack of the overall picture, I think. Because goods and markets must be the crucial factors. There is now one thing that I have found in both speech and writing that the provision of the markets of sheep trades comes from searching for markets that are as far away as possible, China, Russia, but they do not care for the local market. Let me give you one example. At the council today, the people knew, lamb's meat for their food. I expect it'll be back in eight weeks. Why don't the Mayor's merchants come down here and knock on the council cafeteria and make an offer that there'll be lamb on the menu once a week? It's also this way at the Iceland Board of Control, where I know pretty well. Why do people not go to national markets? Why do people need to go to China when the market's wide open in this country? It is a market that once weighed 50 pounds per person a year, if remembered correctly, and is now down to probably 24. It's a job to do. We don't have to get the water over the stream selling this meat, we can sell it here at home, just by means of action. It's a natural achievement, as I've said before, that you can't sell lamb. They want to get a picture of themselves in Mogga on the front page: These are the men who can't sell lamb. It is such a product that it should not be taken away by any small task of marketing and good presentation. I think this problem is bigger than this bill can solve. Now I don't know if the movers dreamed of solving all the problems of agriculture by volunteering it, and I'm not sure about it. But much more is needed. Still, the development of this bill is good in this regard for our discussion, especially about the status of sheep farmers. In fact, discussions about agriculture in Iceland, especially sheep'farms, are usually characterized by such ignorance and lack of understanding and up to the dislike that it is not really possible to participate. Who's always stuck with Svarta-Pétur Peter in that conversation? It is not consumers, although they receive limited goods. There are no merchants, they get what they want. We've already got the products by cutting down. Yes, it is. It's the farmers. I think it would be interesting - and now I'm going to say it out of this chair, because I've said it so often to the propagates of the National Society, the executives of sheep products: Why doesn't the Moggi of one lamb's learning and just show how the benefits of it were divided between farmers, decompositions, traders, and government funds that receive a sink of its sale? Why aren't people doing this? Why do people not show the price of what we buy from the store? I do not doubt that the metaphor of that kind would enhance our understanding and open our eyes to the value of this material. I think that it would be necessary for us, and not only with this product, if we knew the purchase price of each product, we would know what the average change is at both the entire sales and a little sales level in Iceland - often in one hand. That we'll find out what the price is on public goods in Iceland. So I say again, This bill is a good price, for it is closely related to me. However, there would have to be something deeper, and perhaps the committee that gets the bill treated would have to be able to take care of the situation and make up for what is lacking. I kind of trust that this will happen because it is the exact thing that was presented in a talk. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son back then, that we need to know how the approved bill affects farmers and, on the other hand, consumers. That's right, that's a key question, but we have the examples. We know what happened in the milk. We know what happened when MS officials saw the light and saw through their fingers with a small business west of shores producing nothing different from their products. What happened? It was natural for everyone, consumers, both manufacturing companies, all of them. Exactly the same thing happens here. And we must not forget that there is one link in this chain, too, that I haven't mentioned. There are countless small meat industrys in Iceland that produce duck products, do good and create better products for consumers. I suggest that men carefully review the case on the committee, working on several improvements. But after that, I think it might be possible to accept the bill and it could be a good thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u115	A respectable president. I want to thank you for the discussion that has taken place. Before I try to frame the discussion, I would like to share some information with you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson. He asked a few questions, and I'm going to put on my jacket, which I wore a few years ago, when I was serving as the president of the Landsam of Sheep. Hv. A senator was told about 30% of the price was lost in its time. True, it fell considerably more than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u116	In one year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u117	The one standing here may also have been seated in the governments of modern power. At the time of this price, there was a farmer - now I'm not gonna pick up anyone's glove, just trying to spread the right information - there were bargains in the country. At that time, over a two - year period, about 40%, the pay of non-employers increased, etc. I didn't know what to do. paritaprevir Sæmundsson, at the time, the deforestation centres grafted on the toe and finger. None of them did. That's what I'm going to say. For originations, etc. is working along with the highest bill. Agricultural and agricultural ministers have now, i.e. The raw meat bill. It contains a 17-part Action Programme, and one of them deals with the origination marks on the product. I couldn't agree more. A senator with regard to identifying all products. It's very important to consumers, and it's fun to do that. We also know this from one of the great products of the north, which, if I remember correctly, can become the source of their goods at Fjords. That's when I'm talking about a Mountain Lamb on Copaser. For the marketing of meat, I can totally say that it has been -- and was specifically - very lacking, but neither should we forget that it has been greatly improved. Then I'd like to remind you of one good project called Icelandc Lamb, which was part of a domestic agreement that we made in the years when, for example, we did. Yeah. paritaprevir A prime minister was Sigmundur of Davíð Gunnlaugsson, and I was chairman of the sheepfolds, which was just an excellent deal. It was there, for example. A project related to Icelandc Lamb, where both work in foreign markets and also marketed lamb here in the country for foreign tourists. I believe it, because I know why. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson is an interested man for food, that he has noticed at restaurants in the capital, where a lamb can be obtained very widely. I remind you there are generally marked restaurants, there's a shield outside at the restaurants from Icelandc Lamb, and there you can usually get really good lamb. But I'd also like to remind you that we're not just talking about red meat or lamb in this bill. We're talking all about meat. All meat is important. Although I myself produce a considerable amount of lamb, all the meat we produce in this country is important because it supports each other. In the meat industry, many have three - sided functions, dilka meat, pork, and beef. This supports one another. The exchange of lamb fleas was also established. I remember that, huh? paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, that if you visit the home of the Landsam of Sheep, you can see that in 2016 this percentage change was accomplished, and I can remember it as much as it was later processed. I have to admit that I don't remember the numbers and I'll apologize for not looking it up earlier. But it was certainly a striking picture. I can say that, really striking. As in the end: if we, e.g. Have the wisdom to revise the entire aspect of competitiveness, such as that of the apostle Paul. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason came in, I think it's a very good way too, but we have to keep in mind every time we talk about Icelandic farming that we're competing abroad from a giant company. I believe in Icelandic agriculture. We can clearly see in milk production what happened at the time only for the milk industry, anyway, a 71st C. Bumblems. I certainly look for the same thing to happen, but I also strongly recommend that it be done well and done well in this bill, so we don't go under a chair because we need it. This is what the Icelandic food producers need. That's key. Of course, with regard to goods and goods development, good things have happened, but with more solid units I believe they're coming to become even more powerful. I feel that only in recent discussions, or during a period of conversation, have I talked about it, as if the agriculture were hardly prepared for competition. Then people were looking to the milk industry, but we would probably not be offering this bill just to get a release. You've only established that there's not enough depth in the bill and that sort of thing. But I'd also like to say that the text in the bill is almost sound as is in the bill on milk production. No one's talking about being just one product station in the country, and I'm not gonna compromise it any more than anyone else to expect those who receive a release, or whether we're changing competitive laws or whatever it is. Of course, we insist that they play in accordance with the rules set out on their own. It's about the same thing, away from whether it's the Contestant Institute and the products of the meat industry or the milk industry. In this house, men make the law, and we also expect men to follow the rules set, no matter what. If we don't like it, for example. One exit, more than two, whatever, three, four, or five, we're also talking about how they can cooperate. It is not mandatory for them to become united. No one's talking about it. Now this bill is going on for the future, a respectable president, to what? The employment committee, who hopefully puts a good job on the bill and makes it better. I believe that a professional employment committee adds the bill, and I hear nothing more in the discussion that has been today than that everyone is looking to the same goal. It's all about the routes to the target. If we contribute some of the bill of material, there is nothing sacred. Yes, we have a goal in that, we think it's the way, but if anyone else comes along better, and we get the same conclusion, I'm glad. A respectable president. I thank you for this discussion, and I hope that she will soon return to the Hall, and we will continue to discuss this needs and good things.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u118	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The rest of Þórarinn's Pétursson is very much concerned with his speech. I thank him for filling in the gaps that were found in my language. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason spoke of it earlier. A senator would be like talking about soccer with an international judge, but I feel that this is more like boxing with Muhammad Ali with his right hand tied behind his back. But there's another story, and it's fine. I just thank you again for filling in where my language was needed. There's one thing I've been through, and maybe I've made myself a little bit suspicious of this bill. Now I again quote the 30% reduction that occurred three years ago, on top of 10% earlier. What happens three years ago is that farmers cut down or park less, unless both are involved. And what will happen then? Yes, at least we'll get at least one. A rumor about the lack of goods two years later, because producing lamb is not like knitting socks. You don't do it in one night. This may be what I criticize. When the 30% canal took place, it was based on the fact that there was some scary mountain of meat here. That, of course, is the reason they gave up in the media. Not that the products were broke, but that it was quite an ostentatious mountain of meat, which proved to be so small after all, for it has been revealed ever since. Then I will say again, "They didn't know which parts were in these supplies." Was it a beat, a stage, and a liver? It can be, and on top of it, farmers were reduced by 30%. This is what I might want to react from what happened. A senator, that we are not making decisions like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u119	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. Certainly, the supplies were in those days beyond the normal supply. It is not measured in the lungs and liver, nor is it food or aggressive head. They're based on lamb's coot, and you're absolutely right about what you're doing. But the supply was certainly too much at the time, and I went, I think, well over the reasons for the inflation then. There were a number of factors that came in there. Regarding the modern situation, the reduction and the coverage that took place last summer on the lamb's backside and the like, do not forget that farmers and the state had to undergo action that accelerated the revision of the agricultural agreements in order to deal with the social problem. But what happened was that farmers reached the rearraying of their production in an amazing short period of time. Unfortunately, now I fear that there has been too much reduction in sheep in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u120	Mr. President. I'm going to take my chances of agreeing in response. You're absolutely right. A senator, and I agree with him that farmers deserve to be admired for changing the production as they did in this brief period of time. That's right. I say again, because we're getting tight now, and it takes two years to correct it: This requires that procedures taken take place on a reasonable foundation. Then I say again, there's always the same fellow who's stuck with Svarta-Pétur Peter on this case and there's farmers. At any given time, circumstances such as summer, even on misunderstandings, may arise when people planned to pour old meat into the market, absolutely unnecessary. This is what we need to prevent. That's what I'm afraid of. I agree with the senator that, of course, there are three, four, five stations that are in touch than one large channel. I agree completely with that. This does not mean that there is much more to be done. If this bill is a step in getting more used to it than it's done, it's pretty good, and I'm happy about it. It is one thing that I felt was missing from the senator's counterargument, so I ask him: At the time when there was a 30% cut-off at the price of farmers, there was not a single marketing campaign in the country, e.g. in body parts that are less likely to go out. You ask yourself, " Why doesn't it? ' I am sure that if they had taken such action, they would have corrected this situation much sooner and much better. Clearly, there's some kind of awakening to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u121	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson for the questions. I'm going to start by bringing one correction in the beginning. It is not true that a marketing campaign was not taken within the country at the time of this event. I went over Icelandc Lamb and the foreign tourists. It was part of the work being done. In addition, an assignment abroad that we can apply to Germany, a project called Viking IR, which was in the discussion of the World Championship of Horses. So did we. Hv. A senator knows as well as I do on the market is a long run, not one, two, and ten. Regarding national production and the amount available in the country: Are we too low? That may well be, but if this bill succeeds, I'm not afraid there'll be a disqualifyer in the domestic market because there will be a healthy supply management on the market. If we do not have a healthy supply management and a healthy partnership between the slaughter holders, the exact same thing can happen. Suppose there is a very well - paying market, just one, two, and bingo, in lands. What happens then? Then you'll have to sell all the lamb in one green and we'll have no lamb on this land right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u122	Mr. President. I recommend a very positive and important case that has a long history, but that is a proposal for the interpretation of a simple rule, a case that will have it accepted and introduced accordingly, quite an enormous and positive effect on e.g. social, economic, economic, economic, industrial, tourism, fishing, or other, the standard of living in the country and its general quality of life in Iceland, in income and management, in Iceland's competitiveness toward other countries, even in housing, health, and so on. This is a case that can have a profound and positive effect on most areas of society, and it's urgent, as I will trace it. The motion is made by all reason. The members of the Central Party, and they say, ▪ The General concluded that a prime minister would be preconceived by the government to establish a time - to - date plan for a simple rule. At work, it will be in line with the aim of at least the Commission's status report on official monitoring rules on a simple current protocol from September 2014 as well as its specific and targeted systems. Prime Minister introduces the Council of Action at the spring council 2020 As mentioned above, this is based on a huge preparatory work that had been asked to achieve the important objective of simple regulations, especially the report that we published at the Ministry of Presidency in September 2014, and it is suggested that the good work that was done in its time be done and that we add to it as needed. Then the report. She says so, Mr. President: ▪ The discussion of unnecessary complexity and burdensome regulations and the need for simplicity is not new, but the problem has long been clear. For example, on March 30, 1999, the law of official surveillance, No. 27/1999, but at the beginning of the series of articles on the bill that became the law said: It has been shown during the past year that hyperplasia is a wide range of the gel in the regulations and control of public organisations in industrialized countries. In some places, regulations have become so complex and demanding that companies and individuals find it difficult to monitor their legal status. At the same time, strict restrictions of various kinds have resulted in slower innovation and employment activity, thus adversely affecting economic growth and quality of life. This was 20 years ago, Mr. President, and it hasn't been better since. I'll continue with the report: Despite the law's aim to cope with the trend described here, there will be no doubt that the regular burden of employment and the confoundingness of the overall work has been multiplied two decades ago in their sentence. A significant part of the increase in rule load is due to Iceland's Member States' membership of the European Economic Area and related regulations due to the participation of the country in the internal market of the European Union. However, it will not be the sole blame, and it may be noted that the labour market stakes in recent years have been industrialized to point out that the government is producing the EEA in a more oppressive way for the public and the commercial life of the country than it is necessary. On the contrary, the government did not use the amount of space offered to lighten the burden of order. Rather, it was inclined to add to the scientific rules that weigh the commercial situation and weaken its competitiveness in the international market. It is not only the job that needs to be dealt with because all this great order and surveillance affects each person's life in this country. Next, the report under the headline Government Policy: A particularly important point was to say that no new burdensome rules would be introduced to the job without the resulting loss of such important signals. Thus, the entire effect of order would develop in the right direction. In September 2014, the Ministry of Presidency published a manual on simple regulations. I have a copy here, Mr. President, if anyone wants to know. So it is for a manual that we immediately published on a simple rule that was hoped for by government and government agencies. This manual was part of a government action programme for the subject and was designed to guide the governments in a structured stream of simplicity in their area. In the same month, the Commission's state report on official monitoring guidelines proposed to guide the molding of the programme according to this proposal, to which I was able to do so. ▪ Over the years, government emphasis on simple regulations seems to have diminished. Thus, in the government covenant of the last government, the subject was not mentioned. The government's contract says that there will be effort in simple regulations for the sake of employment and the public without further explaining what is involved. The Government Constitution for the 150th legislation, which includes over 160 law-employers and about 30 Senate decrees, consists of three prime products designed to simplify a rule of order, two in the field of agricultural and marine rights, and one in the sector of tourism, industrial and innovation. A description of the last part of the bill shows that it is the first stage of a simple rule of action in the language field of the Minister. Such efforts are good. If it is effective in the direction suggested in this suggestion, tourists will encourage the management plan of tourism, industrial and innovation to be encouraged by other advisers in their sectors. So says the report under the station report of the Advisor Committee, which is the basis of the report, which I mentioned earlier: ▪ As suggested by the movelers to implement a simple rule plan, the status report on a simple, valid protocol published by the Commission on official monitoring regulations and the Ministry of Presidents published in September 2014 will be taken into account. In chapter 5 of this report, there are different ways to achieve simplicity, and under section 5, a so-called equilibrium is explained. In fact, such a rule was found in the 2013 aforementioned government covenants, stating that no new burdensome rule should be added without the removal of such an important one. In this respect, the report of the Advisory Commission, which had recently been published by the British government, suggests that one burdensome rule will have to be taken out of two comparable ways. Transporters believe that there is a need for a clear, well - motivated, well - thought - out balance rule to be guided by government regulations. If so, it is reasonable to consider that two burdensome rules in a certain field will be required to be taken away at the introduction of one new one in that area, at least temporarily, and the result of such a claim appreciated. The introduction of the EEA types should be avoided by this rule to the extent that induction does not involve more than it is necessary. Now I will emphasize the last, that the ensign shall be of no more weight than that which is made by the oracle. Finally, the importance of the time schedule: To improve the effectiveness and competitiveness of the Icelandic job life, the proposal is to implement a time-making programme. Specific measures, such as discontinuation of certain rules or simplicity, such as accepting a protocol for a particular operation should be outlined, and time required. Only about the protocol, this is one of the points mentioned in the report that I mentioned earlier and focus on simplifying people to do something new, to start a business, and to start a valuable thing, so that in certain areas simply it is enough to report that they are on the move instead of applying for permission from the state. As above, it is necessary to consider general measures, such as the recording of a balance rule. Transporters suggest that the prime minister presides for the development of the strategy on behalf of the government and introduces the Allied plan to the coming spring Summit. As I mentioned right away, this is a subject that could be followed, followed closely, had an enormous and positive effect, not just for professional life, but for society. If this had become urgent 20 years ago, as I traced, it is indeed now, and all the reasons to take advantage of the good work started and the preparations that are available to attack this thing as soon as possible and therefore not later than the spring council 2020, as I mentioned earlier. On my journeys through the country this summer, I visited many companies and met many people. In the vast majority of cases, whether they were running a business or just trying to live their lives, what the system, the booth, had become burdensome in Iceland, making it difficult for people in all possible areas. It was to make up the country that those who wanted to make a move, wanted to build something up in their area, wanted to create jobs for others, and to create new values - which, of course, is the most important thing in the community, that humans have the opportunity to do such things throughout the country - could all obstacles. The government, the State, was thinking of these people far more than cutting them down by means of such needs and important tasks. This needs to be changed, turned around, so that the state experiences that it plays a service to the public in the country, not the other way around. If we do so, we will replace a vast array of valuable things and will make life simpler and more enjoyable for the entire public. I'll give you one example of a drug manufacturer in a town in Northland who told us that if we were to form a health minister's bill on a new drug law, which, happily, did not complete the last council, his business might become unchanged. Sadly, this example is just one of many that governments, unfortunately, may especially this government, are expanding the system and making life more difficult, more complex, and more expensive for the entire public. After this discussion, I suggest that the proposal be made to the International Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u123	Mr. President. Thank you. For the speech, Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson. I welcome this council proposal, and I look forward to the task that will be shared with other members of our family. Economic and business committee, covering the proposal. We know that there has been no rule in OECD countries at least Service reports, heavier than Iceland. It was at least The result of OECD, which was introduced earlier this year at a meeting held in April by a consulting committee on official surveillance, if I recall correctly, March or April. Unfortunately, there is no evidence that the rate of rule is relatively simpler, let's say, in other sectors. In fact, it can be said with some certainty that the general situation here in Iceland is that the regular burden of employment is higher than in other OECD countries. The question is, does it really matter? Do we really need to worry about this fact? Yes, absolutely, because of the order of action, i.e. The perspective of Icelandic enterprises is, of course, a question of the competitiveness of the enterprises towards the main competitive countries, both in the export market and in the national market. You can, for example. mention agriculture, but more and more, not just service branches. By setting burdensome rules and weighing taxes too, let's not forget them, all of them may play together, at least More than what happens in general in countries we compare with ourselves, there is an increased risk that there will be a total of Icelandic and Icelandic payers. It's not just a matter of professional competitiveness, it's a matter of standard living. Hence, it is important that we take a suggestion, as is the case in the case of serious ones, not halfheartedly but of the severity required. But the joy is, for not all is black now, that this work is partly begun. It could be better than men have begun. This tour has begun. Only last year took the highest. Agricultural and agricultural minister has dropped off ten agricultural directives, threw them into the ocean's eye, and nothing else has happened but the life of Icelandic farmers became a little lighter and simpler. In accordance with a government contract, we will also see the Minister's Constitution of Congress to take a reasonable measure of action. V.E.G. Tourism, industrial and innovation ministers have announced that by October they will provide a bill for changes in competitive legislation, which, of course, matters. We must not forget that the competitive act is not quite simple, and in many ways it is defective. It is also a setting for the career that we need to keep in mind. There I have some opinions about how the competitive law should be developed. We'll see, and I can't wait to deal with the bill as high as I can. It's been announced by the traveling, industrial, and innovation ministers. He also publishes October's bill on a change in the law of licenses, where there will be a change in various laws that deal with simple regulations and license groups, including the U.S. oduction of the industrial authorisation, Marketing Authorisation, deletion of out-of-date laws, etc. Here's the highest. Minister to take the right step in the right direction, to simplify your life. The same is true of aquaculture and agricultural ministers, who in October will present a bill for changing the law of public surveillance, which will include: This includes a simple food chain policy, as well as the changes designed to contribute to a more consistent and efficient monitoring system for the whole food chain. The bill also suggests that the product fund of agriculture and the AVS research Fund in the marine road will be united and that a new one will be added to a wide - wide foundation called Food Fund. Then, in February of the coming year, the bill is also being announced for the legislation on the changing laws in the seabed and agriculture of which there is an effort for simple regulations in the interests of industry and the public and emphasis on effective and just administrations. The bill will include changes aimed at simplifying regulations and breaking out existing marine soil and agriculture laws that are out - of - date. Hence, a particular step is being made to make clear that the here - to - be arrangement for the Senate arrangement is well established. Secretary of the budget has announced that in January he would present a bill that would include evaporation to 40 law columns in the Ministry's field of activity. It is a law that no longer applies because of changing circumstances or because arrangements made by the law are now developing. All of this is to simplify your life. Is it enough? No. That's why this proposal is important. That's why it's important that we keep awake and discuss whether we're all talking about the legal process, and I don't talk about any other authority, the public and the other professional. V.E.G. President. So I'm here to celebrate this proposal, and I will apply myself as I am able to improve the discussion of the Economic and Business Committee and, later, when the Economic and Business Committee is finished, to help ensure that here may be just a lively and more intensive discussion and only a few more members in the hall because this is not a minor matter. When it comes to the routine of employment, it is a serious matter, just the same as when we discuss taxes and fees, even though some members of the council are walking about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u124	V.E.G. and a very dignified president. I'm in a speech session because if I had answered earlier, I would have been expelled. However, it is necessary to mention this matter only, which is well marked and required. It's once like this, and it's happened to two fine speakers before me, that once Iceland has begun to stand out in the OECD countries, there is a full need for a plan as planned here. Perhaps there was one thing that I didn't feel was not to be mentioned in speeches, i.e. Neither of the senator here, nor of the regulations, nor of the regulations we have in Iceland requires much human resources. It is known that the surveillance industry, as we call it, is here in Iceland, i.e. In addition, monitoring agencies have grown, and would be needed to get counter-arguing figures on how this development has been developed. Since then, e.g. Very well with a newly appointed head of head tax accountant, the public members of the Iceland are not making enough use of the Internet to communicate, either with individuals or with companies. This gives you great opportunity to simplify your life - to those who accept - or those who tolerate - to the service and/or regulations that are involved as well as to those who work on this. There may be one cry I missed out on the subject. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son of Kálma before you get out of here. I missed not hearing it in his second fine speech, but of course it's what we're talking about here also, simplifying the development process as we simplify a rule that applies to public and professional life. So I'm very proud to be a associate to this proposal, hoping that she will be carefully examined, probably on the economic and business committee. I expect that. The chairman of this committee takes this matter very seriously. This has been true in the very first few days of this assembly, including those of the United States. to meet with prime minister, that there are already about 300 conference cases available from members of Congress. However, there is no such thing as how many cases there are. During the last session, from members of Congress, whether in a government or a government position, they have found their way all the way through the council. I think it would be also necessary for us to know. That is why I stress that this matter will be taken very seriously because it certainly deserves to go all the way through the council and not to fall asleep on a committee or day up on the way. It is clear that we are faced with the problem, for example. It's very complicated to start a business. In some articles, you may have to get out of a dozen or a dozen different permits and allow before you can leave with a company. Of course it's complicated and expensive. As mentioned earlier in the Senate speeches, this is a loss of the competitiveness of Icelandic companies. [[Up front.]] It will. So we need to take note now because we are naturally competitive. Iceland itself is becoming increasingly competitive with the countries around us, with regard to manpower and productive work. We naturally need to strive that we ourselves are not creating fences or barriers to employment and to individuals who are inhibited and that much more burdensome than in neighboring lands, we are trying to break down individuals and companies who want to get their feet, start their jobs, and continue our work. This proposal is naturally very timely. As noted in the introduction to the speaker's talk, there were ideas about this yet unproved creature 20 years ago. Although I celebrate what was presented in the Sermon on the Mount. paritaprevir However, Óli Kárason's son before, the fact that ministers are involved in the preparation of laws which should be a simple rule, I believe that there is a full need for us to realize what the situation is now, how we should react, when, and in what ways. That is exactly what this synopsis proposal is all about. According to this, I would like to reiterate my request and hope that the proposal will be successfully treated by a committee and be returned to a later conference for a later discussion and subsidies, thus becoming a step toward developing a stronger and more successful job life.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u125	Mr. President. There's two things I wanted to say. First, about the cost of employment. I should have pointed that out, but then. paritaprevir Sæmundsson explained that according to a 2004 Economic Institute report, which I think is the latest and best report ever performed, the cost of employment at the cost of 2003 was estimated at 7.2 billion, i.e. the cost of complying with the guidelines required. This is about 15 billion on today's price. Since then, however, the scope of the rule has increased. It's become more complicated, etc. I think it's safe to say that it costs more than 20 billion a year. Some of it is necessary; otherwise it is not. One thing I'd like to say is... A senator on. I'm not entirely certain that it would be desirable to increase the number of members of Congress who will pass through. Besides, I'm not in general because like an assembly display, I've never liked it when senators come in the spring and act out of the fact that the current council has been very productive and efficient, and has done so many things, 100 primes, and 50 Senate hearings, etc. I think the subject matters. It is the subject of the bill that counts, not the number of them. It is the effect of a bills we agree with or discuss, the effects on individuals, homes, and employment that we should ask about. Sadly, though, we rarely ask about them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u126	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to hear an answer that was discernable, as is hoped and directed. On the other hand, I disagree with who. Senator on Congress, has been a member of the Senate as well as a member of the board of directors. Time and again, things are not needed because they may not be suitable in a government contract at any given time. Hence, it is essential that members of the Parliament present a big issue. As members of Congress, we know the need to present them as members of Congress, metropolis, and very good cases. I could mention dozens of them. I don't think they're harmed. Many of the cases, e.g. The last two councils and I have introduced would no doubt have benefited if they had walked through to the law. We're good to go. So I disagree. The senator's concern is that members of the council are to be addressed. That is not to say that the council is to be some sort of an autopsy. That's a bit of a factor because we're going through here like nobody's tomorrow and no one's looking at, big or small. Even though moderate opposition is used to prevent the worst mistakes, they do throw away. A senator, so it's not that we are necessarily in that this is a matter of business against the debate or introductory. Not at all. I say again: I think many of the cases presented by members of the council and even some members of the council are certainly worthy to pass through. This case is one of them, and I hope it is. A senator would agree with me on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u127	Mr. President. Hv. A senator has misunderstood, or I have spoken inexplicably. On the contrary, I do not deny that members of Congress are making a case. I think it's interesting. However, it is not necessarily desirable for the council to throw off one of the bill or one Congregational Reunion proposal after another on an assembly line. It is the substance that matters. It would be curious to learn how many prime historians put forth extra expenses, more taxes, or more complex regulations that include less taxes, simpler rules, and less expenses. I don't think the second group has a lot of issues, I'm afraid. It tells me that we, sitting here, should at least consider - and this also applies to the management bill - whether there are reasons why we are so proud that we have done more to 10, 20, 30 single - numbering more than one year before, that the index of approved primes broke up, when there is a possibility that expenses may have increased, the tax taxes increased and the rulework all became more complex and more difficult; life did not become simpler, but only heavier and added to the weight of companies and families. Our goal is, not to maximise the number of approved members, but to maximise what we can do to make the lives of individuals and businesses simpler and more comfortable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u128	V.E.G. President. This speech, please. A senator I thank would have liked to hear the other day's discussion about the third energy package. It was certainly fighting against the fact that the lives of individuals and businesses would be more complex and difficult. I wish I could. A senator would have thought well before he paid off the issue that will have consequences for the worse for the next few decades, not just for our generation, but for the next generation. There, the senator spoke only on a cross. Of course, it is true that the bills and the council rules are not meant to slip through an assembly line. True, they may also do so at times because the government at any given time is unorganized in the contributions of their Congress, and I'm just going to mention one recent example that is the financial program, the last one, and the discussion of the one in an illustration. Similarly, there may be also - perhaps the essence of this proposal - that much power has been handed over from politicians to officials, and we can only mention the budget of each year. I think every senator should look at himself or look in the mirror and think, " Did I benefit from this financial bill? ' I'm afraid the answer is no in almost every case. I'd also like to point out that the last two budgets produced by the Ministry of Economic Affairs have been removed from the council between the 2nd and 3rd. to make real changes in people and businesses without a Senate hearing. So I think that the point of this proposal here is, in many ways, we need to keep the system connected and start to reduce its impact, while increasing the influence of those chosen to influence.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u129	Mr. President. I think it's safe to say, and I may be surprised to learn that we at the Central Party and the Central Council disagree on a number of issues. On the other hand, we agree. [[Up front.]] I'm celebrating this case, and I think it's necessary and important, and I can claim that we at Reunion will support its success at the council. I am personally a member of the Economic and Business Committee where I firmly expect the case to be submitted. There are too little work to do in these areas, we are all too busy in this room, and in the general administration, we find ways to establish new rules for business and people without being too tight to compete and business conditions in general. That's right. That's right. That's right. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son, the country's standard of living, the strength in the business world to create well - paying jobs, and to promote great and lasting prosperity. It's a project we should always be on. We should constantly be reviewing the rule with the goal of trying to simplify it and make it more efficient. As important as a rule is to ensure that normal work is done, that tax laws are followed, that environmental issues and other such factors are extremely damaging to free competition. In this context, it is often forgotten that the most damaging and damaging rule in small and medium-sized enterprises is burdensome. They are the ones most difficult to live up to and, in fact, create a burdensome rule of competition for big companies. They are far easier to hire experts, to have lawyers on their side, to sail the vehicles through the complex network of rules than to give up even for the problems. That is why it is very important to keep ever in mind, and of course, it would be wish that the present government would be more interested in simplifying a general rule. This matter is closely related to a case that I made available to the Council last year. It meant a similar thing, to get OECD to do our so - called competitive work and legal actions with the intention of canceling unnecessary rules that are primarily involved in preventing market free competition. The success of other countries of this assessment is unambiguous and has significantly increased economic growth in those countries. I certainly hope that for that experience, this will be the subject of a review. What is important to not forget in this context is the competitive spirit himself, that there is a particular rule that is harmful to competition. We at Relation only disagree with the Central Party when it comes to certain sectors such as agriculture, where we have even raised a pure competitive, even legal, meeting, so to speak, or provided the sector to a considerable degree an exception from competitive law. I find it important when we look at such factors, though we often understand the goals and purposes of such a regular work that I know is set in good purpose, to defend Icelandic agriculture, that we also ask: Can we achieve these goals differently than inhibiting free market competition? Free market competition is the simplest and most efficient way to ensure consumer interests, ensure that goods are as low as possible, for the benefit of all consumers. Therefore, I hope that this project will be established by the government and that it will especially be considered in ways to prevent competitive and competitive rules. A simple way to increase the effectiveness of monitoring and streamlining while the company's work environment would be to combine substantial amounts of the surveillance organisations we have so that fewer sites will be searched and increased as a result of the guidance of these monitoring institutions. In particular, agencies such as the SEC and the Contestant have been severely criticized for even refusing to advise companies on how to comply with the rules they should apply. To refuse to do general and normal instructions with those who work under its hat is an unpleasant frontlines. These two might be given special emphasis, how we extract and reduce competitive inhibitory rules, and how we can combine the surveillance agencies. This would, at the same time, increase efficiency in the general government business. It would be an excellent goal in this hall that we generally did not recommend or support new rules that are competitive and even have a direct purpose to be exactly the competitive, competitive, and consumers to harm. This case is the best, and I really hope that there will be a walk in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u130	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a synonym as to the interpretation of independent police operations and practices. The case is republished, it was presented in the 144 and 145th Parliament, but it is now reassigned with a slightly updated report reflecting the developments that have taken place in the recent category and in various legal adjustments. We in the Pirats thought we'd put this up again at the time, but there was a law on police surveillance, and we wanted to see what the experience would be about that committee, see the annual reports of the great committee and the experiences of it, and then evaluate the rest. At that time, we felt that there would be more to it than that of another fine committee, and I'll discuss it a little more later. First, let's be clear about what we're talking about. I'd like to read the subject of the proposal, to make it clear, by permission of the president: The General concluded to hide the President of the Generals to submit to the International Commission to provide a legal bill for a special agency on the FBI that has an independent surveillance of police operations and practices. And while the bill is being prepared, it will include look to the Agency to get them to: a. start checking on your own initiative, b. accept charges against individuals who consider the police to have violated their rights. c. An investigation of the proposed violations of police work, d. researching reports of harassment and sexual harassment within police officers, ... investigating the content of anonymous tips within police or administration. Then, in preparation of the bill, the Agency will also be able to oversee whether the Agency can employ prosecution in such measures. The bill will specifically require the independence of the Agency. As you can hear it, the proposal for an independent agency to be established. At times, the internal surveillance of the police is referred to as already present. I think it's a bad translation of American police parties. This is an external check, not within the police institutions themselves, but outside the U.S.A. Such special institutions under the Council would then be three. Now I refer to a report on how these issues are handled in neighboring countries. In many ways, though, most recently the fact is that in many areas the surveillance is not considered to be independent. A foreign opinion often suggests that there is much need to be done so that it is credible to believe that the surveillance is independent enough. In this case, employees of such institutions or committees are often former police officers and well - versed in that world. Many feel that it can lead to a lack of confidence in the level of control that you would like. Of course, you want it to be perfect or as good as it is. Only on the Committee on Police Monitoring that is currently operating. Her home page is located in the area of nel.is. It contains, for example, will review the annual reports of the fine committee. A few years ago, she was set up, about the same time as the Piratars gave the case a second time, and it has the responsibility to direct the charges and complaints inside the police and the like, but she has no authority to investigate and can't use no requisitions. She maps the situation, gives information, and publishes annual reports that are inexplicable, but it is much smaller than what is proposed here to be started. For example, this institution's surveillance by police would be through the existence and availability of procedures. She'd be watching the use of the police, no matter how much that force is. As we know of the news and some of us from personal experience, the force may have been beyond what might have been necessary, i.e. There is no moderate care. Of course, there is eternal cutting bones on duty, as is the case with the police, whether moderate conduct is involved. We may never be free of that discussion, for it is an institution that has the authority to exercise physical authority and it always follows such an assessment. There will never be a perfectly fine, clear, black line about where that limit lies, or exactly how to react under the other or these circumstances. Things can happen quickly and unexpectedly on the floor, which is said outside the community, where power is applied. The Agency would monitor the search and telephone barns. One of my recent reports has been issued regarding the frequency of telephone calls, how often they are requested, and how often they are authorized by judges. Many things can be said, but I do not intend to extend this discussion by taking it very detailedly, so to speak, to say that it is worth and reason to consider more carefully whether such measures are always needed when asked for them, especially to consider whether it is entirely acceptable on the part of the judges. The same is true of search warrants. In fact, I have to talk specifically about house search and searching. Over and over again there are reports of police presence at some point, e.g. at fun or concert, and asking for a citizen to search at him. The city says no or no, and it threatens that it will be brought down to the station and left to wait there for a judge to decide that a civilian is allowed to be searched. It is only in two circumstances possible to search the citizen, if he accepts it himself, or if the judge decides so. However, the effort has been made by the police to threaten people, in my opinion unfounded, to take them to the station, and therefore often to destroy all the entertainment, especially if they are in a country where there is much distance and time is very precious, to find people. This is something that needs monitoring too. In turn, such factors will never be completely cut and set according to rules. This need to be monitored in some way because the police have to have the authority to take people down to the station and wait for a judge's decision. It has to be this way, but it's important that we be completely aware of how this power really is used. That's what it's all about, not that the police have too much power in themselves. While some evidence might be given in outstanding cases, it is more about the power that the police must have exercised by the sensitivity and zeal we expect to be of free and independent citizens. leave your sanctuary alone. Another thing that this institution would keep under control would be arrest. It may not be strange that when people are arrested, they sometimes have something to put on their arrest. Once again, in our fine community, the influence of American movies is no doubt made up of people who are read the so - called rights that are in English called "Mirandarights." From what I understand, it is the duty of police officers to explain to people their rights, but it is quite clear that the concept of what they include differs from what the city in this country often expects. You hear a story about the city asking repeatedly about something he should know, but it's said he's only asking because he wants to do something stupid. There is a lack of respect for the city's right to know things that the policeman may feel is obvious, but the citizen does not. Whatever the case, it is the rights of the city that have the upper hand. Then there is the save of individuals who need to be monitored as well. Fortunately, there is now an OPAAT monitoring, which is a very positive development, but it is probably also likely that this institution will supervise this development. This institution would accept the complaints from citizens, partners, lawyers, or really anyone and have research clearances. Finally, there is what is left behind as a specific application point for the Presidency Committee to put on the bill following incidents, and it is whether this institution should be a prosecution. There are questions about how this is compatible with the three - part division of power, and there is more that are worth considering, but it is not clear in this proposal, but only that observation. Otherwise, I refer to the report on the subject of the proposal. It is rather detailed, up to 15 pages. I don't have time, and I don't want to, if it's gone, to go over it all, but I want to finally say that these suggestions are, in the end, just to build confidence and maintain confidence in the police. So we often take our little things for granted and, in all principle, peaceful society that the citizens trust the police. It is good and blessed for those who trust in it, not for those who do not trust it. Many citizens do not trust her, typically after their dealings with her. In this discussion, citizens often find that they have a bad conscience or that they must have done something wrong, but these words and answers emphasize exactly why they need to be independent of the police. None of us are simply trustworthy. Human beings simply cannot be trusted, they must always be some kind of objection and with all authority, including the General. That is why we have the tributary of power. That's why we're having an election. Therefore, we have a bearing on what the Commission does, the legislature and the jurisdiction of the courts. That's why we're supposed to have an observatory, a surveillance agency, with the necessary phenomenon in our society as the police is. It is the institution that can exercise physical authority over the citizen. That's an important power. It is important that the police have these sources, and this is in the light of the need for supervision. It is not a blame for the police itself, nor is there a judgment against anything. This is natural in a democracies community, where we appreciate the freedom of citizens and their immunity that we highly value our efforts by ensuring a barrier to all the power systems that we are forced to set up to maintain peace and freedom in our community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u131	Madam President. When I read that subject, I was not completely aware of what it was about. I was hoping to talk about it. A senator, who was certainly fine, would shed light on it, but she did not, in fact. I think it's a little interesting that we're discussing a new agency. We were just about to discuss the need to streamline state business, but here we are talking about a new institution that I don't understand better - and that's why I really want to wake up. A senator corrected me - but to take on a court assignment today, e.g. It's about wire taps, house searches, body searches. I don't understand why these courts are being handed over. So we're creating the fourth court? What is his name, and what else should he do? Now the police officer's job is complicated, his recruitment relationship with the employer is also complicated, since he is appointed a member of the office until the age of five. If an institution, regardless of the employer, should have, e.g. I don't understand how it's going to work. I also don't understand the need for an FBI agency, the Generals Department of Police, to accept a court assignment, as I said earlier, to accept wiretaps and searchs. I would like to ask: Has the senator or the flier had any ideas about how large this institution should be, what the cost of operating should be? Should it be paid from a government fund? Should this institution accept certain judicial assignments? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u132	A respectable president. No, she wouldn't take over the court orders. However, this is not so that courts can, in effect, monitor the local police for the future. I'm sorry, Mr President, but I can't help it if the purpose of the agency is why. A senator unclear after my speech and reading the report, which is rather thorough, I do not know how to explain the purpose more fully. In terms of the courts, there is a fine example, which I mentioned in my speech, which has to do with the conduct of police officers at times when it comes to physical searching. There are no laws broken when a policeman threatens a citizen to take him down on his post and there waits for a court order. Even whether the judge then says no, this person is not to be searched, however, it is entirely permitted to take him down to the station. Thus, it is used to force the civilian, in effect, under the circumstances, to accept a physical search when it is proper for a policeman to have nothing to search for unless he has legitimate reasons. Because of this inevitable arrangement and the need to be there, policemen can always abuse their power by various concerns that judges cannot deal with by simply turning down one body search. Then asked him why. A senator, too, about how large that institution would be. I can't make any precise numbers. She wouldn't necessarily be much more populous than, for example. Committee on police surveillance. However, it is important that this institution be properly independent and not e.g. under the Ministry of Justice, that she has research clearances and that she has documents that the current committee does not have, but I do not see that it would be large or extensive. I can't see it. I hope this answers questions. Senator. But if I don't, I'll just come back in a later answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u133	Madam President. I thank the senator, but no, he did not quite answer what I was wondering about because he now says that this institution is not to interfere with decisions about house searches and wires, but it was found, in fact, that I thought, in his speech before and in his previous answer. I feel that this proposal is set out on the grounds that the police are a group of people harassing the citizens of the country, which is naturally not the experience of those who know them. I know the police well, am her lover, and worked with her for 11 years. As far as I know, there's a lot more to explain. I don't know any better than men going out there with their most moderate temper. True, the atmosphere and society in many respects have changed for the worse. A general reason for searching? Who should evaluate what is a proper reason for searching? Is it, e.g. A good reason for searching when the drug dog gives the signal? [[The president calls.]] Or what are the proper reasons for searching?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u134	A respectable president. I'm sorry to break your back. A senator, but it's super-trusting to the police that I think is expressed in words. A senator is simply not available everywhere. There's a lot of civilians that's probably being challenged by police officers. It's just a matter of fact. There's nothing to be insulted about, it's just their experience, and we're going to react. This proposal, however, is not made directly on this basis but primarily on the grounds that the police is an agency with the authority to use physical force against citizens and can do these things and needs to be able to do them. Then it is normal to be monitored by force. It's not much more complicated than that. Hv. A senator considers the police to be very moderate. I'm sure most often and hopefully, but I've only witnessed cases where it isn't and I've heard a lot of stories where it isn't. There's nothing to be offended about. It is only the standard that always prevails when organizations have power over the citizens. Always. Therefore, like an independent police surveillance, there should always be preserves and counter-important organizations. [[The president calls.]] This does not involve any offense against the police.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u135	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the story talk. "I'm asking, "Another agency? How should she achieve her goals? Clearly, the police are not opposed to being observed because they want trust. The most important thing to keep trust in the police is the work being done to build trust. Trust is the most important thing the police have. Policemen have the goal of doing their job as best they can and hope that their partner is not doing something wrong that would damage the other person. I want to ask you why. A member of Parliament: What is needed for today's inspection? We have a district attorney who is conducting procedures and instructions with the police and gives orders. We have a local district attorney who will handle these cases and investigate them. We now have 11 offices. If the district attorney's office is somehow incompetent to handle some matter, it can be brought to other police directors, and then we have the courts. We have an emissary of the Generals. So we have a lot of ways to monitor how the project is being carried out. It's a natural thing to learn from what's done. If someone makes a mistake, they learn from it. What's the problem? Why do you have to create another institution? Why don't we strengthen the police and strengthen them rather than spend money and time in such an institution? Then I'd also like to point out: How to be some knowledge of research in this institution if it's not to be a police officer but some to be independent of the police? There would be no experience or knowledge of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u136	A respectable president. I'm not sure I can answer any questions. A senator in length, at least last year's answer. But that's right. A senator says the police want trust. That's right, and that's the opinion of every cop I've talked to about this and anyone who knows about it. Hv. A senator asks what he needs. Well, there are ways. There's a district attorney and a district attorney, and there's internal progress from the police and that. But, hey. A senator also mentioned the emissary of the Generals. This may have been the very case in 2013 in the letter of the U.S. Marshal Aldus, who was asked whether there was no need for further control of the police. As a result of this discussion, the study included set up the Commission on police surveillance, which is still at work and has reported two annual reports. It is good to discuss the activities of this committee based on the role it is intended according to the law. But the reports show that she is not at first financially, and second, the authority is not to be properly resolved in matters that need to be discussed, and this is seen in the reports. I just have to refer to the reports of this committee in order to answer that question. A senator with that. Then there is the other political question: How much surveillance do we want to keep? You can always just say it's enough. You can always point out that there are courts in the country and that there is a prosecution for the district attorney. But is that enough to get the effect on the work of the police and the trust in her that we want? Not to my judgment. I still hear too many stories that police are not acting in a way that I want police officers to treat civilians and me. A senator and everyone we care about and others. That is also the political question behind this question. Is it enough for us to do what the situation is today? No, not in my opinion. I'm telling people who think they've been hit by some of the police on this committee, and I've encouraged people to talk to her. I must continue in my later reply, most respectable president, but it is clear from my experience in conversation with the citizens that the arrangement today is simply not enough. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u137	A respectable president. I think we should be absolutely clear about this. We don't set up entire institutions, and we're going to direct legislation on legend. I'd also like to point out that the use of force, which is one of police roles, will never be popular. It's just that way. That's the nature of the job. Of course, the police have to be moderate in their use of force, so we have complex processes. We have plenty of examples, too many in my opinion - and that includes, as noted earlier, master's responsibility, and so on - that police officers are being courted because they did not promote mediocrity. I think the system works. Hv. A senator also stated that an agent pointed to the offense, and it was acted quickly. The surveillance committee was set up. After that, the district attorney's office was established. We dealt with this, so I think we're reacting, and I think we're in good shape.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u138	A respectable president. As I studied in my speech, we waited to ask the case again because a committee of police surveillance was set up and we wanted to see what the experience of the police would be. We saw, though, that the role of that committee differs from what we say. We recommend a check-up and substantial authority while the police surveillance committee doesn't have them. We waited for the annual reports of the committee submitted and read them and reviewed the case, updated in view of the reports and experience that occurred from that arrangement - which was certainly a result of the opinion of the Councilman of the Council since 2013. Responding does not automatically mean that you have responded well enough. It's so simple. It is not enough to react in some way. At any rate, it is our political position that there is need for more control of the police. Regarding the rumors, there is a tendency. A senator watches these reports. It is evident, too, in the words of the citizens of that city that they believe that this institution has all sorts of authority that it does not have. They assume that there is more monitoring of the police, and there is more to be done than they experience. It's not rumors, it's local history. When we have these experiences with the police, in view of our reports and experiences and, of course, conversations with the citizens, it is in my opinion that we should respond with a suggestion like this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u139	Madam President. I thank the senator for the story and thank him for this suggestion because I think that while nothing else comes out of it, at all, she will give us a reason for overcoming the experience of the changes that have taken place in police surveillance in recent years. The police surveillance committee was step forward, but I think now is only a good time to take a position on this trend and see how we can build the system so that it builds up trust in the police and see to it that its work is as good as possible. I'd like to ask the senator of last year's answer to the decision of the projects he sees to hide the institution laid here. These suggestions list various types of rights or violations of a job. These are the most serious lesions that can arise in this work, which may often have the right way through the judgment system. But let us just take an example from the opening of this article: How about the use of police on firearms without any offense being intended? Would it not be reasonable for such cases to be examined spontaneously, that whenever a police officer saw reasons to resort to firearms, everyone knew that there would be a check into the basement after a neutral party? What about the shutters? Although we have some system around them, I think there is reason to have automatic surveillance on every case to ensure that this source is not overused, not just in the case of fractures, but in general and always.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u140	A respectable president. I'm trying to look up the report in order to find accurate wording, but it's hardly possible to say that the thought of this proposal is that monitoring would also include monitoring the application of firearms and, in fact, performing shutters and the like, anything that really concerns the police with the citizens. By the way, this applies not only to serious fractures but also possibly to those who are not serious. The most serious violations come before the district attorney, go to court. There are judicial cases when police officers violate the laws, the laws of the land, or the like. Some of us, though, want more. We want the practice to be exemplary, and we want it to be reacted when it is not exemplary. It is not necessarily a crime or that something has gone wrong. Rather, it must be ensured that nothing has gone wrong with the police, e.g. Every time a death happens. They'll have to be examined, no matter what. Even if no one is thinking in advance that any consideration of the police has taken place, it is important that we make this clear. This also includes the second aspect of the motion heard by me in front of another's voice. Councilmen who have not been quite clear, and perhaps my story is to blame, that it is also about protecting the police from becoming unduly suspicious. The nature of the work is a form of suspicion. All power naturally breeds suspicion, and it can be met by listening carefully and responding by means of means of maintenance and counterweapon. That's what's in the suggestion. I can't determine exactly what the bill would look like, because the proposal for a prime committee to make such a bill might be more precise about what frame to format for this. I think of the subject, though I cannot read words at the moment. Councilmen with this small period of time, that the message should be clear. [[The president calls.]] This is a general surveillance of the police and all the force they need to wield in their jobs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u141	A respectable president. I thank the senator's answer, for it was a little clear that the text of the proposal itself is evidently a little tighter than the plan. This could be fixed at work to make the message to those who might accept the task of writing a bill is that we are not just talking about the intended offense, the possible punishment of conduct, but a much wider role. Here some have made it a subject of interest to establish a new organisation. I'd like to ask about that, too, not because I'm opposed to establishing new institutions, but I just wondered if these projects were even well placed by the U.S. Marshal, especially after he's under surveillance of torture, in accordance with OPCAT. Could a degree of expertise be formed from an agent who could also be used for this surveillance? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u142	A respectable president. It is good to consider whether the suggestions are too tight. Just because he raises such questions, he does. A senator tells us that it is a good idea to look at it and then expand according to events. When it comes to the 15 - page suggestion, people may place the biggest powder in the report. In terms of whether we could be living with an agent of the Generals, we thought a little bit about it at the time, and our conclusion became that it was not. This is primarily because the U.S. Marshal has a wide range of them and accepts charges about everything that comes from the European Commission and the rest of the world. Today, it is by nature that these cases go to the Council agent, but in our opinion it is appropriate to have a special agency for the police because it has this special authority that other institutions of the Commission do not have that is exercising physical authority. In English it is said that the police have patented violence, indiscriminately, which has special kinds of power, and we considered it appropriate to have a special agency to provide for and to counteract it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u143	Madam President. It's been a good discussion, but it's necessary for me to come up here because in the past, an authority told me that I was insulted on behalf of the police. I'm not actually, maybe I should be, but I'm not. It came to my mind, when I was listening to what. A senator before, and also in his reply, that some years ago, at the General Parliament, it was a bill about the operation of real estate dealers, and good if it wasn't approved. I spoke to a friend of mine who was a real estate agent who asked him about this bill, and he got mad. He said to me: This bill is written by people who have never bought property, never sold property, never intend to buy property, or sell property. He said: "This bill was merely not spoken to any man who knew the subject. Without saying that those who made this suggestion don't know what they're doing, I'm thinking, "Did somebody ever talk to the police about the present situation, while men were thinking about this and making this suggestion, i.e. how they view police officers, police officials, how the present system works? Was there ever someone from the group to which this suggestion is directed, not against, but against? The proposal says, with President's permission: Then, in preparation of the bill, the Agency will also be able to oversee whether the Agency can employ prosecution in such monitoring procedures. The organization is to investigate, but it is also to be charged with it. There's no good Latin in my mind, but all right, and I'm asking, "Do you see it this way? Is she to pronounce judgments as well? It would be perfect. Then we would have only one Inquisition here. Then I find the suggestion confusing. to accept the charges of individuals who feel that the police have violated their rights, but she is also required to engage in sexual harassment within the force. She's supposed to work in and out. I don't know better than there are rules and regulations, there are natural procedures that tell you exactly how to arrest people and how to handle them in irons. There are regulations that even were made public at the General Assembly of Justice, or Minister of Justice, of the use of firearms. The governor's rules were precisely informed, how this should happen. That's what's going on. If the police violate citizens in the community for various reasons, they will have a personal way of presenting their affairs. We have an example of being reassigned to police officers, even quit jobs, or an end to their orders. I don't completely understand why this proposal came up. Some people on entertainment, even out in the country - I remember one case, and I'll just be corrected if it's wrong when a little body chase was made west of a country that was complained a lot. A few dozens of people were involved, but because of their physical quest, some programs of drugs were found. I also remember another incident during a recent festival some years ago, where a police officer with a drug - searching dog passed through areas where guests were staying. Passed by the drug dog, at the time, the tent of the drug habit was marked. The tents were searched, and no doubt drugs were found. The question is, is this harassment on the part of the police? So at that festival, there were a few dozens of drugs that were in violations, both of which were consumers and sales, if I recall correctly. I feel that the proposal is made to question the police. Maybe it's just me that's so fragile, not a suggestion. I believe, though, that anyone doing police work is quite clear how difficult it is. The police officer has almost no time to decide what he is going to do. Will he ask for physical help, or will he say that it stands at the door? Is he going to conduct an arrest? He must make a decision in a very short time. The only choice he has is whether it is right or wrong. Of course, people take very careful note of what is being done. On the other hand, I've thought of something, and not just thought, I think there's a possibility that there's an increase in the recent situation where there's been a complaint about arrests, possibly because police are now more than ever outnumbered. It's, for example. I can't imagine how few police officers are in the capital area. There's a lot of them missing. The calls that five men used to wear may make two now. As a result, there will be more fighting between police and civilians than before, and this is because an alleged offender thought twice before he cycled five police officers, but he does not think for as long as today of fighting two. Whether the arrest is so fair or unjust is later revealed. I don't know if a number of arrests were observed in the contract of this proposal, whether or not the police's arrests were made, whether or not the number of people were reported, or not. That would be one thing because we have equipment here in Iceland protecting the citizens from the use of force. Although it is not entirely comparison of apples and apples, we have or are to have, which will review how credit institutions treat people who are in a crisis and although in the stories there are not physical violence, they are not all beautiful, as we know. Of course we have this mementos, excuse me, Mr President. I could ask if the men who made this suggestion also discussed how many cases have been identified, since the police have overstepped in the opinion of the person who studied, where arrests have been illegal. We know that men who have been under custody or under arrest illegally have, as it is thought, been condemned. The procedure exists as well as the penalty, so there may be no need to install a special agency. Why not use the U.S. Marshal? They found that in the past, if I just noticed a layman, there was a committee of former police officers. If I had anything against it, like... I would like to have journalists or real estate dealers in their ethics committees to be journalists or real estate dealers, some who know what it's all about. I don't know why anyone other than a police officer or anyone with minimal knowledge of police work, law enforcement, or any such thing should be on a committee like this today. As far as I can see, the suggestion is made to question the bad police, but it may explain to me that the matter is not at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u144	A respectable president. As you understand, we are a man. A senator certainly does not agree on very much here. I'm going to start with what I agree on. A senator said about a small police force. The result is that people are more likely to resort to some form of violence in the police. I've mentioned it in my speeches a number of times, and this is the main reason why we have to finance the police well enough for us to care enough and this will not happen. This is one of the major factors in preventing the use of force from the police and of what they believe is the need to exercise more authority than there is a reason. I think we're gonna do what. A senator will agree there and will be able to unite in the battles there. Now I probably don't have time to review everything we disagreed about, but I'm going to try to set priorities. Hv. A senator asked if this proposal was made with spokesmen or police representatives. The answer is yes. I can't name names because I don't know if they're interested in being named. The answer, however, comes from individuals who know very well, who have long and detailed experience in police work here as elsewhere. Hv. A senator asks if this institution should pronounce judgments. The answer is no. The question of the prosecution is not obvious, but the movers wanted to avoid double acts so that this institution was not investigating something and finally when some matter had to be done through a different process. It may be inappropriate to have the prosecution there, leaving it for the Presidency Committee to investigate it, as indicated in the suggestions. Hv. One member of the United States notes that the proposal is presented to question the police. I'll take what. A senator believes when he says he's not offended on behalf of the police. But that's exactly what I mean when I talk about people being offended at such a suggestion. This is because it is a tendency to act like the police are automatically good and that police are always resorting to extreme moderation. It even appeared. ... ina debateofcourages. Senator. [[The president calls.]] It's just not the real thing, it's people, and it's kind of weird like the rest of us. It's a power agency, and I'm sure it's under surveillance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u145	Madam President. I am so happy and filled with joy. Let us agree that it is necessary to finance the police better than it is now. I trust we will then receive his support, for, as before, the media will certainly offer proposals to finance the police better than it is done. I'm counting on them to give us some support. A senator and even his partner. I'm also glad that the motionmakers were in contact with people who know the police. That makes me very happy. That doesn't make no difference, though, because I think it's presented in the way I described it earlier. There's no insult, that's just a realistic thing. I say again, were they looking for information on how many of these cases were made by arrests? Then we could compare this with other professions that cost us dearly. We could do so if we had considerable information about it. In other places, if there is a court of law, would there be a double act? I'm sorry. It is also true that if we are violated and we have to go to police hearings, we would line up with the courts, unfortunately. It is bilingual, and, unfortunately, it has been most devastating in the case of sexual crime. The speed of speech there is impossible and has been over many years, with the most serious consequences. There are two factors involved in having the investigation and the charges, but we live in the same situation and in more serious cases than this. I don't think there's any reason to make things right. Of course, the benefits of this suggestion are that we start a discussion about the work of the police, which is very important to us. I don't think I'll make it this long, but hopefully I'll answer it. A senator of what I asked earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u146	A respectable president. First of the double acts, he defended the prosecution, not the courts. There's no court order following this suggestion. I'd like to keep it perfectly in place. The State is not a court order, and the charge is not a judgment contrary to what a general debate may suggest. I hope I'm not giving you a break. A senator's word in his mouth, but it's only important to be clear. This is different. Statistics for arrests. The answer is again: Yes, it was taken into account when the proposal was updated. These statistics did not exist when the proposal was originally written. Then came the commission on police surveillance, e.g. was designed to gather various statistics on this, and it is in a report on police surveillance found at nel.is. It will come, for example. 44 complaints about the conduct of police workers, that was the largest group of complaints. There were 42 complaints about arrests, which was the second largest category. Of the 42, there were 12 cases in which a statement came from the district attorney, and more is being made into all these statistics. Yes, it is, and after an opinion of these reports, it was still our attitude in The Pirates that these matters should be subject to independent surveillance. The report also shows that the third major category, this is for 2018, was for violations against confidentiality and treatment of information, totaling 16, and in 2018 the Committee referred to two cases that fell into this category to the prosecutor. That means 14 cases did not go to the prosecutor and is something we should still monitor. The committee is clearly tracking it, creating statistics and pointing up cases here and there but does not have research clearances, and does not have documents that should, in my opinion, be passed on to her. It doesn't have to be a much bigger or wider organization than I think it needs research. I feel that she needs to be more independent, and I feel that she should have a way of dealing with this without having to rely on the response of other institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u147	Madam President. Thank you. That's the answer from a senator. I'm aware the police have set up equipment, including... Officers carry cameras, which can be used as evidence in the case of arrests. I remember the time when I worked with the police that in some cases, the citizens had disagreements on how certain matters had been done. That scene was cameraized, and the charges almost disappeared. Everything was recorded there. The police and the citizen's communications were photographed. There was a security cam at the scene, and it was gone. I'm sure this monitoring will be good for both parties, and of course we should use the technology to settle these issues. Wait a minute. A senator not to take my words so that I believe the police reject criticism or law and right, not at all, and that the citizens are not entitled to the police at all. As I once said in my case, the police are chiefly to protect the interests of our citizens and to keep us safe. One nice man asked me a few years ago: What happened to the policeman? They're now called police officers. I agree with him about that, I'm very interested in returning my vow to the officer's job because he's to serve us citizens, isn't he? That is also what the police are doing throughout the year. Although I disagree with this suggestion, I rejoice that it has come out because we are discussing these matters. I'm on the Presidency Committee, and I'm going to welcome her when she comes in and accepts her.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u148	Madam President. Our children can be many, and then we too need to build systems, school systems, and health systems that can care for all kinds of children. Today, there are many good things that are done in Icelandic school, but there is also something very simple to fix. This bill is designed to emphasize the freedom of parents of children to choose the schools and the systems most suitable for their child. At the Councilmen, the Cradle and the Womb. Senator Pirata Inst. Hran Gunnsson set up the bill for the last legislation, but the case was not decommissioned. We create a change in the law of basic schools on legal financial contributions from rural funds with the goal of recovering from their parents'status, regardless of their economic situation. It is the natural key to this, that when parents offer freedom of choice, it is a real freedom of choice, not a financial one, that freedom of choice also applies to people who have less income and in difficult circumstances. This needs to be fixed, and that's the thought behind this bill. In the current law, the act of contributions is that an independent primary school contract makes a service contract on the basis of the law and has the right to a contribution from a rural fund to its activities by students who have a legal home in the rural society where the school operates. According to the regulations, unless 75% of the total total effective cost of all elementary schools fired by rural society in the country per student is calculated from Iceland's Habitat Office. In the final part of the arrangement, the ratio to 70% falls when students reach 200 or more. In our opinion, the current law of the move is 43 C.E. least in turn, parents'load of payment is to contribute to their choice of schools for children primarily based on professional grounds, not costs. Similarly, such limitations, in our view, have an inhibitory effect on the development of school institutions, but only those who are driven by rural areas alone. We think it's important - and that's even. what reports from OECD and other foreign analysts show - we need to do everything in order to promote innovation, evolution, and restoration within the school profession. Of course, that is true not only of public discharge schools but also of independent employment. How important it is that independent, active schools also have the opportunity and space to go to school development and other development that is important to their students! The less donations are made with each student, the greater the cost that comes to parents. As a result, this cost can become a major factor in parental choice of school, more than other factors that should rightly be based on it. We highlight that a parent's choice must primarily be based on what is suitable for his or her child, not on the ability of parents to make a decision on the basis of financial needs. Higher contributions from students are also consistent with our view that money follows students regardless of the property of the school involved. We feel that the system, such as the health system, is actually the foundation of public employment, but it differs depending on whether private members can come to public service or only government agencies. We can see that, for example. in the health sector. Even if private institutions are to be brought under the leadership of the present government, it is vital that we recognize that to ensure that certain basic services, both in education and in the health - care system, we need everyone to work at building a good and effective health and education system. This does not mean that people automatically eliminate individual workers on the basis of not working for the government. The contributions come from the government, and we have a clear definition of the goals and guarantees equal access to everyone. Because of that, this bill works. We want to ensure equal access and freedom of choice for everyone in the school system. It is our opinion that the current 75% minimum includes a certain discrimination against parents who choose independent school for their children, and they will pay considerable fees, unlike those parents who send their children to public elementary school. Of course, as it has been for years, from the time Ásdís Halla Bragadóttir was mayor of Garðatown, and Gardavær made the decision to leave the contributions completely to an independent functional school such as Holla Policy in Garð, and as a result, the Hojall policy decided not to take school fees, all done to try to ensure equality. Far from it, we want to try to prevent local societies from opposing their policy, but the premise must always be that we are molding the system for our children who have different needs. Jón can get into this environment while Gunna can't. Then we have to be able to have a degree of diversity in the system that takes care of both Jón and Gunna on their terms, and then we have to contribute to the diversity of the school system. We do this by ensuring good outside schools that are expelled from the public as well as from an independent, active school. We would like to note that both national legislation and international agreements require the right of children to study and the freedom of parents to choose schools for their children except those established by government. Contraindicated in this context. refer to 2 mg. Section 3. Basic school laws that require parents to care for their children's interests during their school years as well as their parents'responsibilities on the 19th floor. The law of his children's studies. This basic law requires the responsibility of parenthood and custody of a child, as laid out in a child's law of children since 2003. In the 28th C.E. Child law is required for custody, but in 2 mg. The law says that parents should care for their children and therefore have care and respect and care for them, as well as for their family responsibilities, as well as for the benefit of a child and needs. It also says that parents should receive legal instruction from their children and thus produce industriousness and moral qualities. Parents also need to help their child to receive education and training in line with his or her talents and interests. It's very simple. In this context, 2 mg should also be noted. 76. g. The constitution that says that all people should be guaranteed in the legal right to public education and education. 3 mg. The same law states that children should be guaranteed by the laws of protection and care required for their well - being. Of course, we will trust the parents of our children in cooperation and cooperation with our children to choose what is best for our children, and then we will have to be equal, ensuring freedom of choice. Out on it, once again, this bill goes on. International contracts for Iceland include the rights and education of children. The European Convention on Economic, Social, and cultural Rights is an Annex to the European Convention. In this context, it should be noted specifically of Article 3. 13th par. The last contract to make that says: If the members of this agreement are going to respect their parents'freedom and, when appropriate, the legal guardians to choose schools for their children, other than those established by the government, who have the same minimum education conditions as those set or accepted by the government, and who may be responsible for their children's religious and moral education in accordance with their own convictions. Thus, from the above, the United States is obliged to replace the barriers to freedom of parents when it comes to their choice of education and education that they feel is appropriate for their child's needs, completely independent of the management of schools, economics, or other events. The current legal environment is not designed to contribute to such free choice regardless of the economy or other events, while a major difference is made in the basis of basic school management, i.e. depending on whether it's an independent middle school or public school. Therefore, we suggest that if the school has 200 children or more children, the percentages of the law will be increased from 75% to 90% and 70% to 85% by the average total cost of basic schools in this country if the school has 200 or more children. Of course, these too are the directors of the country's rights to control their own affairs. I remember that, I was the minister of education when these regulations came and they were new in the law, to ensure the right to life of an independent functional school. We agreed, and nothing unusual about it, with the Icelandic local Union, who believed that the bill was going against the executives of the country's right to control their affairs. Our main goal was to ensure freedom of choice but also to try to listen to those views. We see a certain development now. Now this law has been in law for 12 or 13 years, and its experience is good. At the same time, schools themselves have grown stronger in the community. Still, there is some uncertainty about their operation as well. Parents are particularly uncertain when choosing schools for their children, since their parents'finances can still determine what school they choose. We hear it happens. I don't want to see that in Icelandic society. We need to ensure equal opportunities for all, wherever they stand in the community. We must bear in mind that this is a legal donation made by a community of children, such as I mentioned earlier, who have a legal home in the local community, and they are under obligation to offer some education options for. As a result, they are children to be guaranteed and paid for by rural communities. So we say: This will further strengthen and promote diversity in the school system by supporting the activities of an independent, active school school in Iceland and making sure that fair donations follow a child completely independent of the parent's choice and where it goes down. I think this is a wise step. This is an important step to trust the foundation of an independent, active school. That's extremely important. I also believe that independent, active schools have within their rural society because they have a positive influence on progress in other schools in the local community. I think it's a fun mattress that will get into the Icelandic educational system and the Icelandic school system. We must continue to trust the foundation, acknowledge an independent school. We need to make sure that the freedom of choice is the parents, for our children, as I had previously been able, who are all kinds of people and who have all kinds of needs. They vary, so we need to secure the rights of our children everywhere in the community so that they can enjoy themselves within the school system on their own terms, not on the basis of the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u149	A respectable president. I'd really like to go for it. A traveller about a few numbers that I would have found helpful in dealing with the case. First, the country's minimum contribution to an independent, active school is being reduced. Does the senator know whether rural society is in general just meeting the minimum requirement, or is there any real donations in rural society other than 75% or 70%, which are in the current law? This is the first. The second is whether this change was hit, the amount of money that rural society would need to contribute to an independent, active school if this 15 percent increase per student was to be performed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u150	Mr. President. I'd like to thank you for these questions, and I'd like to see that, for example. In fact, since the formation of more things, Reykjavík has made a small part of it and has taken a special interest in an independent, active school, both preschool and elementary school. She has renewed certain service contracts with them and has tried to meet up with parents who have children in such schools, whether at a preschool or at an elementary school. It's very important. Farmers do it differently. In the meantime, I was able to make the decision to make the contributions that a child will make. This is not an additional cost for rural society. Since there is always a cost to each child, this is not an additional cost to the rural population but, in fact, being accompanied by the child's financial support. Mosfellstown has also done well, trying to promote freedom of choice - because I'm here with a senator who comes from Mosfellsville and has done a great job in Mosfells Township. There are different emphasises. There's no secret that I felt that the city of Reykjavík was a little reluctant to be a bit reluctant about private schools. I'm not going to say it was a taboo, but the city was a bit reluctant to go back to an independent school, but it's about to change, and I'm just going to thank the more part of the city that, including... Pawel Bartoszek, to have followed that. This will increase the budget. What's always been, just since we set this into the law at the time, is the point and the point. It is always a debate when it comes to funding the government on what to consider. A reasonable standard must be found that focuses primarily on our giving our children the choice that suits them. [[The president calls.]] I trust my community as well as my government to get it done that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u151	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir A Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter for providing this bill and especially for her speech that could be spoken in many ways from my heart. It's obvious that we've had a great concordat in politics over the years. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'm glad that this bill is done, and everything that came out in the issue of the primer, that here we are ensuring equal access to our educational system, as much as the individual's freedom to choose what is best for him, whether it may in this case be the children itself or the parents who have the child's best interests at heart. The fact that we build diversity in our school system is also important, for just as well. A senator made a good impression, not all children are as suitable for different ways of studying. The polydiversity also promotes a healthy competition, even though it is the traditional schools that have been expelled by the communities. It's always good that people are very aware of being on their toes, I allow myself to say it, and do well. Thus, our quality increases, and we contribute to a better school, which must be the big issue in all of this. I'm not going to extend this discussion very much, although you really enjoy it by coming up into the hole. I'd like to describe the support that this bill is being given and I hope there's a good and useful discussion in the General and Education Committee. I would like to point out, though, that when we are talking about percent, perhaps first because of the problem. A senator came into it only, that the very city of Reykjavík has been sitting a bit behind the capital area over the years. I think the rural communities around the capital have done much better in paying with children who have chosen to go to independent schools. But it's good to have it done. The percentages, as I understand they're being processed - we're talking about leaving 75% to 90% and then 70% to 85%. That's good, because I think it's normal to have money with a child, which is based on the average total cost of all elementary school in the country. It's a little wide. I know a lot of people like that. A basic school in Mosfellstown, a large school, 600,700 high school children, a very good school, and even large units can be a source of practicality. In various parts of the country, there is a bit of fighting on the banks. I'm not saying that schools are worse there, but it's harder to run school when you have much fewer children and it's hard for people to do everything. This has naturally resulted in an increase in cost. So you might wonder, " Should I look at a number other than the average of every school in the country? ' Maybe they should be looked at more specifically regionally. I know we're working with these two percentages, depending on whether it's under or over 200 kids' schools, because it's in the law, but it's also affecting where they run the schools. I just wanted to point this out, and I think it's important that a global and educational committee do it well. This is also involved in paying with children who are going to school in other rural areas, e.g. when parents divorce, and children have legal homes elsewhere. I know that the rural areas in the capital area have made up an agreement on how to approach them. This is just one of the things I wanted to point out, but I welcome the contribution of this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u152	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The spirit of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir for having touched the factors we certainly need to take a closer look. I have agreed, there was a compromise at the time, for people felt that the step was to secure support for an independent, active school at the time. I think it's time for us to look at these exact premises and I embrace her great will that it be examined. I encourage the General and Education Committee to do that. It's important to see how the communities have done this, and I reiterate that I think there's a certain improvement in this in Reykjavík. Among other things, Pawel Bartoszek published an article that emphasizes that parents should have choices and that independent schools play a vital role in the education of the capital and that they must continue to be able to do their jobs with ambition and altruism. That means they have even. additional contributions to a private school because of vacation work. It is of enormous importance that in this field too is equal, apart from the fact that high school is being done. I hope it's one of those things that doesn't split up. I hope this is one of the issues we can combine to win better. I think it's possible to work a little bit better with numbers, use experience, both in the Senate and in the community within and outside. There's no need to create some tension. I think we can unite that we must, first of all, continue to ensure freedom of choice in behalf of our children, and so we can make the whole community and school system better. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u153	A respectable president. I recommend to the people's headquarters to legalize social security laws and social assistance laws (inadequate employment agencies). With President's permission: Change of Social Security Act, No. 100/2007: Come on, come After the 22nd. The law's coming up with a new article, 22nd par. a, as well as a heading, as follows: It's an experiment. Microenergy pensioners are allowed to earn two years of employment and they do not interfere with microenergy pensions, age - related biofuels, income insurance, and special pensions. 2 mg. Count 9. Law on Social Help, No. 99/2007. The right to work without defect in the employment sector is to announce to the micro-energy pensioner to the insurance agency that he intends to use that authority or at the later date specified by a microenergy pensioner specifically in his announcement. Notifications will be made 52. g. Despite the 1st mg. it is permitted that reduced reforms may be total poverty rates higher than average wages in the current profession according to local Haustours. The latest information should be used at any time. They will then restrict social insurance as a micro-energy pensioner on the rights of no matter what the employment income accounts for 50% of the total income of the disability donor and the average salary of the profession. Despite the bounds of the b-depth 2 mgr. Section 16. 4 mg. Twenty-two. Unauthorized microenergy evaluation is not permitted based on the performance of microenergy pensioners during the period when they are authorized to obtain employment without impairment. 1.mg. During bioenergy re-evaluation, the performance of microenergy donors should not be considered during this period. If the applicant has previously taken advantage of a job permit without impairment, he or she can apply again eight years after a two-year period. 1.mg. completed.How long before the end of the day? Il. section is a change in social assistance law, No. 99/2007. ▪2. par. After 3 mg. Count 9. The law comes a new paragraph, as follows: Despite the regulations of 3 mg. There should not be a list of earnings for a pensioner under the average service group as determined by Iceland's Habitat Office during the period when he takes advantage of 1 mg. Twenty-two. a Social Security Act. The latest information should be used at any time. This law goes into effect in January 2020. The rules of a current social security law are difficult to understand, and it is often difficult for the citizens to recognize their work. It's the guys who get the money for a micro-energy pension, according to $18. The law, though, knows that they are facing a number of failings. It is a temporary energy evaluation, and many fear relief if their health decreases after they start working. The prospect of future prospects is not to be worried about the poor if they try to start a job again. On the contrary, they should expect a better standard of living. It is therefore suggested that micropigs be provided with a special source that they can use when they want to re-start or increase their ability to work. In the event that this experiment is not successful, a invalid will not have to fear any further decrease in pensions or disability re-evaluation on the basis of that experiment. Similar measures were successful in Sweden, where about 30% of the subjects returned to the workforce after an attempt to serve. In other words, after the experiment, he did not return to disability. Because all its subjects have the motivation to work, society has rich interests, and increasing the active force leads to the betterness of society. In terms of the increase in tax revenues, tax revenues in terms of the increase in social security costs are involved. Spiritual health is likely to improve if people can have an active share in the community, and this arrangement is designed to improve the quality of their spirituality as well as that of their families. In 1st. The bill is suggested for a new article, 22 paragraph. a, add social security laws as home to micro-energy pensioners applying for a cut-down pension due to employment income under the average service for two years. Thus, microenergy pensions, age-related microenergy supplements, disability grants, income insurance and specific supplements are reduced according to 2 mg. Count 9. legal on social assistance, not because of employment during the period when microenergy pensioners use their resources. Still, pay is reduced by other biofuel incomes during the season. However, the upper limit is determined by the measures taken in the same profession. In this way, improvements in employment beyond those criteria should be impaired. However, in order to prevent double-baked taxes and impairment, it is suggested that only more than 50% of the income required by the microenergy pensioner outweighs the average wage. So the options encourage increased employment intake are in 3mg. It should be noted that employment should not be taken as long as micro-energy biofuels are used to re-evaluate disability and that it is also forbidden to reverse the specified microenergy assessment based on the ability to operate while re-emerge. Thus, a micro-energy pensioner does not have to worry that increasing the number of businesses may lead to the loss of rights if he has to get worse and needs to work less. Four. it defines when a micro-energy pensioner can use it again. Two. The bill is submitted to the change to Article 9. legal on social assistance to ensure specific supplementation of 2 mg. Count 9. Their laws are not impaired by professionals who perform an attempt to serve. This bill is one of the five priorities of the mob in the category's welfare package. An importer on the bill is Inga Sæland. In this context, we need to realize that, of course, the poor have set a minimum of 109,500 dollars. from income they earn. Sadly, though, if they cross the pay market, then there is an extra tax per cent, from 70% to 100%, which is just a pure possession. To expect someone to work hard and even lose because of the cost of getting a job is, of course, ridiculous because it tells itself that if you don't get a job, you don't get lost because of the cost of getting a job, you don't start. Then all classes are also cut down, e.g. power and other rights disability in the social security system, in the current system where people are trying to win. There have been some committees on the review of social security, for jobs disability. The latest Social Security review committee was identified by Job Assessment. Pétur Blöndalur was mentioned earlier, who received a special crown from an older citizen and poorer and moved into a basic pension. Over the course of time, this has been an attempt to establish a operating system. If we think of the experiment that is being made with the operating system that we know takes a very long time to come into the process and there will be many obstacles to putting it into effect, then this bill is very good to give the micro-organists who can work and want to work on their own terms, without the government breathing into their neck language and telling them what to do and what work they can do and how to do. It's giving the micro-employers who want to work and can do something to find a job, they know what they can do, they try to see what they're capable of doing on their own terms, without being in danger, as the system is today, to get nothing for their turn to try to work, and secondly, that when they come out to work and can't handle their jobs, they fall back into the system with their own problems of getting back in. The system is incredibly inflexible to letting people back in the way they are built up. Consider, for example, a person on disability, who has suffered from disability in his 40's, and who is in disability. We need to realize that the individual is always on the case, that the state has to pay its compensation every month. So it is a little strange that if this person is going to try to win, the State should try, just let himself, punish for such an experiment. It tells itself that as soon as the person wins, no matter how small, he always returns the tax. That must always be a good thing. Therefore, I have never understood and will never be able to understand systems that type people and try to prevent them from working on the grounds that they are in recovery and the government is paying them. Whether they are trying to win or not, the Kingdom needs to continue paying. But as soon as they try to work, they begin to return something to the community. Most details, though, about how much this will bring to those who are able to do this. It tells itself that there is no one out there who doesn't want to work but who can't work and can't control how much he can use his energy. After you've reached your holiday target, 70% is a minimum tax. Every 100,000 bucks. A microloaf has to be returned after the payoff target has reached nearly 70,000 tax returns. He gets to hold $30,000. If we put this into context, today's high income tax is about 46%. A court official in the same situation could be held after five4,000 bars. But if we see reasonableness in these things, it's only crazy because it can't be fair in one way or another. Therefore, we are required to ensure that only 37% of the tax paying is returned to the individual as well as to most employees. In this bill, we're still wearing a hat or a line. Suppose a person who has had a job in a particular profession but cannot do his job temporarily has been tested after some time of disability. He gets the work he had done before, and he gets to work. Let us just say that there would be a situation where he could work full - time on that job temporarily. But then his government benefits would be impaired, and his salary would reach the middle of the class. There would never be a situation where he worked alongside another person in the same profession and would have a lot more for his work than for the other person with a full - time job. So we're trying to create a system that is not humanistic, like the old systems, a system that would be very good at interlocking while trying to establish a man - made rehabilitation system for disability, where they have a choice of whether to study or work on their own terms. The first step in all of this is whether the job is available for the person. That's why it's very pleasant and comfortable to have this bill, and hopefully it'll be accepted. They have two years to make up their minds, try to find a job, try, and hopefully they will have the result that those who want to win. As a result, I refer the case to the welfare committee and hope that it will be handled well and that we can restore it to the council, preferably as approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u154	A respectable president. Thank you for my great platoon leader and bill leader for your history. I must now say that I am particularly proud that at last we will give a bill we've been looking for since we arrived at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. I have repeatedly stood in this speaker's office and described our ideas that each one of us is best disposed to evaluate his own skills, beyond the bicker in a town that is supposed to leave us desperate for a cloth and a plate, but it has now been rather submerged, I must say. If you can see that, the good people of the country, looking at us here and now in this fine public speaker, there's not a single soul in a Senate Hall but the highest. President and employee of a Parliamentary Conference Office. So I think this group of paintings, which have been the heart of the people in real life, can't get any special attention in general - unless there's any reason here. þm. Will Vilhjálmur, who just rushes into the hall. [[Up front.]] Welcome back. The fact is, what we are suggesting is not new. We're not picking up the bike. We're looking for other countries. We're looking around and seeing how things have worked out elsewhere. In Sweden, e.g. Clearly, 32% of those who tried at work did not return to the improving system. Now there's been a lot of calls, especially at the top. A secretary of finance who has given in to the growth of the number of microorganisms and how the world will do so should be reduced. I have always said that there may be other ways to do this than to throw us out of the rocks - and this is one of them, the resources we speak about here and now where the individual himself has the opportunity to evaluate himself to the potential labor capacity he may have. We feel that we are in the spirit of everything else that we like to preach, to freedom, to try to strengthen the individual and to accomplish the best possible thing. Right away. paritaprevir Guðmundur Igngi Kristinsson notes that the despot market is 109,000 k. Let us see that as soon as we get to work, despite the holiday goal, the special supply has just gone. You just pay it back. If you start working in September and you get a hundred thousand bucks. Until Christmas, something goes beyond that, even though there are only a hundred thousand dollars, you have to pay back the extensions all year long. Period and bottom line. And this is exactly the experience I have experienced. This system we live in today is a shell - fire system that encourages anyone who could possibly try to earn money to get out of the poverty trap to do black work. Is that what we want, more dignified president? Is it really the catalyst system that we acquiesce and sacred send a message to the community? Would it not be easier to embrace this group of people, those who may be able to win? We talk a lot about the incidence of disability, which includes many young men aged 18How, especially those who are truly sad. In a number of cases, these individuals are physically fit but have difficulty in their spirituality. Many who are getting out of the habit and trying to deal with problems they have gone through are just not going too well in the community. People who suffer from depression and distress and are very difficult to deal with because the longer we stay out of the community, the more likely we are to stay off for a long time, whether after an accident we are having a long time to recover - and the longer the more time we get back to society. It's just a fact. I'm not bringing any new science. The point is that we have measured for another bill, or rather, the government and the highest. Social Affairs and child - care minister with that issue now, as we had repeatedly noted that even if the elderly were to be cut off because of pay money, the state funds would probably not lose. All the calculations we had from specialists indicated that the money in the state would be more profitable. It would be public health that older citizens could possibly be allowed to work longer. Exactly the same is true of disability. Imagine how wonderful it would be if we, the Allied of Iceland, were to encourage this group of members, to get our people out to work, at least to those who are bound to do so, and to those who have the physical ability to do so. We can help them again into life, and at the same time, we would be reducing the number of microorganisms in the word. I can't figure out how hard this is going to be. I can't figure out why the system is so weighed down. But at the same time, I can only point out that the community has been heard when these issues arise: Are you really making it possible for the invalid to gain money from working and also getting the support of an insurance agency? It actually outweighs tears if people display such a negative attitude and really think that we are giving a full supply to the desperate person in a insurance institution. It's wrong, and I encourage all those over the head to have some interest in putting themselves in the way of reading this bill, reading the report, and examining what we have to offer - but first and last, listening to what we're saying because we're telling the truth. I'm very proud that we've already measured for the bill. I urge you, however, specifically to observe how this will be handled, how it will generally be applied to the five priorities that the people's party will measure for now and then compare it with the big words that have been used often in the campaign for how everything should be fixed, everything better, everything changed, and everyone will do everything for everyone. Here we are fighting for those whose feet are in the community, those with the lowest wage, those who hardly present their lives day by day. We're talking about that group right now. I reiterate that I am very happy that we have considered the matter. The people say what he means and mean what he says: All the things we have preached will be done, no matter how others take them, and whether they help us to pass them through or not. Normally, we are ready to put all our affairs into the hands of the government, allowing them to be implemented and implemented so that at the end of the day, it would be not just the party of the people, but all of us, as I have always said, who put together, wherever we stand; all of us who showed them that we could work together for good things, stand together through thick and thin, and be together when it really matters. And that's how I think -- or don't think, really, I think it's in my heart - that the Allied of Iceland should work, even though there are all kinds of political hairs and things, and that's the natural nature of the matter according to the routine as it should be, though it should be. paritaprevir Maybe Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson isn't quite caught up in it yet. But we've learned fast. We've been through a lot of things, sometimes a little steep. But we are optimistic and smiling, and now we are. The welfare committee has brought this wonderful matter into their arms. There's a lot of good people out there that I hope are ready to look deep into their reasoning, look to our uncle in Sweden, and see if we're anything in this bullshit. We're telling the truth, and what's kind of the best thing about it, as shown in the history of a whale. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi, son of Kristinsson, just moments ago, is that if these individuals can get a job and trust to win, they will pay their standard fees. A respectable president. I think there may be nothing more to say about this unless it's a case of No. two that are recommended by the people's party by the five issues of our priority package, which we call the Shuffle of the people. And then I thank you for the time being, don't I, Guðmundur?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u155	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the changing of the clock's law that deals with the individual's purchase of an apartment house. This is the fifth time the case is presented, but it was originally the highest. Minister of Justice, Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, who has been the first traveling overseer to the case so far, but we now transport it are Vilhjálmur Árnason, Óli Kárason Kálæksson, Páll Magnússon Magnús Friðbertsson, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Braunr Níelsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, and Jón Gunnarsson. As mentioned earlier, the matter has been submitted in advance and has been discussed in the Economic and Business Committee, but it was not completed by the end of the council, and that's why it's moved back now. The reviews received in 149 of the legislatures were generally positive to the subject of the bill and to the modification of the procedure of the stamps. The bill suggests that a stamp charge due to the purchase of individuals in an apartment house should be taken away. In general, individuals should be paid 0.8% for the purchase of an apartment building but at the time of the first purchase, half of the pay is given. If the bill is legal, the fee will drop completely because of the purchase of individuals in apartment housing, and the release will not be limited to first purchases. The objective of the bill is to make it easier for people to get an apartment building and to increase efficiency and flow to the market through an apartment building. There is a great need to make it easier for people, as it were, to obtain housing, especially under conditions such as those now in a housing market. It is shown that clock charge has an effect on the rise of real estate prices, reduces supply, and reduces the share of buyers and sealers. From the above point of view, the removal of a plunger charge of real estate transactions will facilitate the production of housing markets with the expected increase in availability at least over the past few years. I want to know that here we are stressing the clock charge for buying an apartment house. Many, including the one listed here, would prefer the removal of clock charges. It is a misleading name, a stamp charge, but it is generally due to the cost of service, since it is a permanent percentage and far away from that reality, especially in the digital world, it is strange that such a great cost is at this estate. This is nothing but a property tax that is very unfair and should fall. But we've decided to go to focus on the housing business and it grieves with other things the government is working on. First, I'd like to mention a simple rule. This will involve and simplify this business, becoming one obstacle to the number of people in their hands. It has been clearly seen that more things are torn apart or that almost everyone in the house - to - house market wants to have their own property. In general, people want to live in their own homes. For those who may have the lowest percentage of their own money and who are buying their first item, a stamp price can be like the devil from the sheep's arm after the deal is taken out, having to pay the plunger. So it can be very difficult for those on the lower limits to finance their real estate. Of course, it will help young people, and those with less money between their hands, who are buying their first real estate, not having to get this account, as it often does. So I believe this case is very important. This has to do with many issues in the Department of Social Affairs to assist people, e.g. the first apartment buyers, as well as those who have not owned property for five years, help them. I'd also like to point to the Constitution of the Secretary of Economic Affairs, which assumes to eliminate the rate on a ship. It's also part of the reason not to take too much at once, but that's what I'd like to do. I expect the matter to be well prepared in the United States and to be paid quickly and well. The Economic and Business Committee. I think it's just a matter that will help with what we're working on here, make it easier for people to find homes, help those with less hands, simple rules, and make people's lives more comfortable and more reasonable. That is our role as government. So I have faith that the matter will be cleared through the General Assembly of the Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-19-7.u156	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise a change in the law of partnerships, private partnership law, social law and social law. Transporters of this bill are what it says, case Lilja Kristjánsdóttir Magnúsdóttir, Þorsteinn Víglundsson, Árnadóttir Kolbrún, Brtís Haraldsdóttir Kristý Kristján, Halldorra Mogensen, Sæland Góland, Þólmundsson, and Graffjörgviðsson. Chapter I's about a change in partners law, No. 22/1991, with subsequent changes, and reads 1st par. such as: ◯ At 77 str. A new paragraph of the law will be added, as follows: A partner list can provide day-to-day benefits to a partner who does not comply with Article 4. 1.mg. Twenty-seven. Pay the day tickets until a partner informs a partner file that the percentage of each sex is not less than 40%. Today's fines can study from 10,000 K. ... toa hundred00,000K. daily. The decision to make a dollar of a day's fine can be made to consider the financial strengths of a social group. Dags are running into government funds, and they're mobile. The minister is permitted to set further rules for making a decision and to collect day's fines in the Regulation. I'd like to emphasize that what follows, in two and a half persons. par., is the same text as in Article 1. but about the change in other laws. It's the same text as the reading was earlier in II. section, Change of Private Partners' Law, No. 138/1994, with subsequent changes, and also applies to III. section of the bill on the Change in Participation Act, No. 2/1995, with subsequent changes. In section IV, for the change in partner-friendly law, no. 50/2007, with subsequent changes, I also refer to the text that was read in the light of the changes. In the 5th. The bill says: ▪ This law will achieve its significance on January 1, 2021 Here's a report on this case reassigned from our last council. A united bill was submitted to a 149th legislature, but it was not granted. The bill suggests that if laws about the sex ratios of an enterprise do not follow, it will protect day-to-day. This subject was discussed with a professional health - care committee at the 148th legislature, and the committees met. with representatives of the female business community that referred to the situation in this country, it would be unacceptable to the proportion of women in the management board. With law No. 13/2010, for the change in partner law and private partnership law, there were laws on gender proportions in the partner control. The regulations came to true value on September 1, 2013, so a time of adaptation was given. With law No. 49/2011 was made comparable changes in Community law and Community law. This means that since there are more than 50 employees on average on a yearly basis, whether sex controls a group of three men or not, however, when there are more than three executives, it should be ensured that the proportion of each sex is not less than 40%. In Norway a law on sexuality was adopted in the governments of a larger partner in 2003. It required a number of representative members of each sex according to the number of members in the management board and that the share of each member of the board should be at least 40% in governments over nine subjects. Following the introduction of the Norwegian Law, the percentage of women in the administrations of a partner increased from 6% in 2002 to 40% in 2011. The proportion of women in the management of large companies in Norway increased from one fourth of the executives in 2004 to 36% in 2006, reaching 42% in 2009. According to Sissel Jensen, a Norwegian economist, the increased share of women is among those who receive the highest pay of direct consequences of sexuality. Women are more given the opportunity to be among the highest rulers when the government itself is made up of both men and women. These findings match the purpose of the law, i.e. that more women are being given the opportunity to influence business affairs. Although Iceland has followed the example of Norway, with the legislation on sexual sexuality in the administrations of a partner, Iceland has failed to achieve the same success. The lead-in period was given for inclusion of a command for gender proportions in governments, but the ratio has not been equal to that of regulations in effect has not been adhered to. According to information provided by Iceland's Habitat, 26.2% of the management companies were paid and enrolled in a partner list at the end of 2018. At that time, the percentage of women in companies with over 50 employees was 33.5%. These proportions have been approximately unchanged since 2014. Transporters believe that it is time to make a legal statement that it is permitted to make a date on the governments that do not take part in the percentages of genders in order to achieve their aims. Although there is considerable intervention, transporters feel that such measures are necessary to achieve a gender ratio in partners, private partners, partner and partner-friendly objectives. At the same time, the legislator is permitted, despite the Constitution's property rights, to set the freedom of action required for normal and objective reasons. I believe this case should go fast and well through the council now. There was a review at the last Council of the Economic and Business Committee, and there were reviews. There is a wide will for that within the council, I believe this bill will become a law. Senators from all categories are now moving the bill for the second time, and there is pressure from partners in society, women's business partner, and other social equalists. There will be no pleasure in the failure of the 2013 Commission laws on the percentage of genders to be carried out. Of course, those of us who make laws feel that it is proper and obliged to be carried out, and in this case, it was a good time for us to submit to the new law in its time. Today, too, there is a period of adaptation, and this matter was discussed during the last assembly. The bill expects the law to become valid after more than a year, on January 1, 2021, so I believe that all the enterprises that have not already met the conditions that are in the laws that we refer to have enough time to do better and that I have no faith in anything but that they want to do better. I don't think there'll be any trouble in getting qualified women to operate places in corporate governments. Everyone knows that a good blend of women and men is often the one that makes a difference in business, business, and any place in the community. We need to work together, and young people need examples, whether in politics, in business, in business, or anywhere in the community. This is part of taking as normal and for granted that women and men share responsibility and take the lead in business. Thereby we are much more likely to be paid equal to other equalitys that women, as well as men, have fought for, that we will achieve the power of women, and look forward to the benefits of enterprises and careers by enforcing these laws, trusting women, and exerting their power in corporate governments. I trust that this case will be handled well on the Economic and Business Committee and it will be handled at the 150th legislature.
