ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u1	Borist has a letter from the 10th. South, Smári Mccarthy, that he'll be absent in official business soon enough. So today, on Wednesday, March 6, he takes his place at the General Assembly as his deputy of the 1st Pirata Art of the South, Eymarsdóttir of Eymarsdotir. She has previously taken her place at the General Assembly, and she is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u2	Mr. President. Last week we passed a law on further emissions of capital resources, decontinents, and made changes in the influx seas. The late bank has now taken a step on the basis of these laws, following them, important steps, healthy steps, and decomposition of commitments. It's down to 0. The investments of foreign parties in domestic bonds will then be natural. We have been blessed with excellent economic growth, low inflation, the fact that interest is at the minimum. Otherwise, we'll be able to sail through the collective agreements so that they'll have an introduction, for example. The influx seas are well - hoped that interest will turn even further to the future. The fact that interest in growth is one of the most beneficial things available in Icelandic earners is like the Konráð of the Council of S. Guðjónsson, an economist of the Business Council, points out in a fine article published today in the News magazine. He points out that 1% decrease in interest will bring a family 30 million. K. An apartment loan of about $25,000. lower budget per month. One percent down is twenty-five thousand. to this family every month. It is a great privilege to work to ensure that continued stability, that we will continue to be able to see the potential benefits and that there will be a constant price, and therefore, the basis for further growth reduction will be created. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u3	V.E.G. President. I'm going to discuss a national financial programme in relation to the Parliament's work programme and arrangements that we could discuss on the subject. It is estimated to be the highest. The secretary of finance, according to the available plan, will recommend financial planning of the 26th month. I'm stressing that it's important that this plan succeeds and seeks the very best of assistance. A president of that subject. The Council plan covers June 5th. In that time, there will be an Easter license, approximately When you're running out of narrative. While the permit will, of course, be useful in reviewing controversial reports, much time must be taken to review them, receive visitors, and accept the necessary conversation. A year ago we had a meeting in a budget board with other regular committees associated with their specific topic areas. I think that ideologies were well thought of, but they turned out to be heavy, and we need to find a more efficient arrangement for it. At the last schedule, the committee was united with a number of tips that I think could be a good foundation - I throw it here before the regular committees following the events to follow up on them. Also important is a certain group of workers. A financial committee will discuss the general part of the programme and call for a thorough disintegration of the coins and scenarios according to the incident. Other fixed committees might then take advantage of that work. A respectable president. Most important, when we begin our work in the committees, it is clear how to get the most out of this big, important subject. All indications are well-sounded subjects.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u4	A respectable president. For example, social and child - care minister sits on billions who were to be used to receive a dollar's disability problem, the most important means of money they placed in store for food. Also, Iceland's Medical Insurance is being offered a health minister who's fasting at 276 million for nursing and housing, funds necessary to prevent surgery, e.g. food and medicine for elderly patients in nursing homes Then there are 150 million hostages at Iceland's Medical Insurance, also offered by health ministers, who are needed to keep their distance to a minimum. What's wrong with the counsellors and this government? Is it their task to collect an earmark of money approved by the General and to keep them away from those who are in need of life's necessities? These are the financial resources that are kept away from society's worst in terms of safe and old citizens who are unable to defend themselves and who have to live in surgery for years. So it is also young people who are being suspended - for what? Death. As has been said to mean death to those and to the government, the complete collection of an earmarked money in a waiting account of these stewards is as if it were meant to be done to them and to the shame of a government. On the government's command, we look at poverty that results in malnutrition, depression, anxiety, and disability again. What, then, is to be done when people and older in this land are starving and injured? What should be done after the doors and doors are closed to the clients of the U.S.A.? What about the future of these individuals, health gone because of e.g. malnutrition and other complications? What? Do they get first in the medical system? Or is the priority always just for some who have the right over these individuals? Then I ask why.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u5	Mr. President. During the past few weeks, I have wondered about the position of Minister of Foreign Affairs to declare the support of the President of the United States of South America, in Venezuela, to become president. I've been trying to keep track of the news and I just don't really understand it. First, what do we know about this man whom the media today say is the self - appointed president of Venezuela? Reports disagree whether or not there has been democratic elections. I'm most afraid our information here in Iceland, including the Minister of Foreign Affairs, will come from American press. I have noticed that the BBC now says that the first news of these matters may not have been quite accurate, that the situation in Venezuela may not be so bad, and that it may be some kind of coup. All I have to say is that the steps are frightening when the United States is meddling with the governments of other countries. We know the history of Iraq and Libya, the history of the United States in South America, unfortunately, is not good. A few years ago, a former secret agent came here and said that he was a economic terrorist in South America to break down governments there. I felt that there was one thing about supporting the man but worse when he was personally called to state his support. I have doubts about a president in many countries. I think, for example. That the President of the United States is a much better person than the president of the United States and would be a much more qualified president, but I don't think Guðlaugur should call his wife and tell her. What's our responsibility in Iceland if there's a civil war? Where do we take that stand? [[The president calls.]] Are we encouraging civil wars and conflicts in other lands?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u6	A respectable president. I admit I cared about last night when I watched the news article Hiccup. There was the nasty social ills of prostitution. This country is clearly higher in favor than many realize. They say that prostitution is overworked and that buying prostitution is as easy as ordering food. I don't think we want this kind of community, that it's just like buying pizza to order prostitution. In 2009 we set up here in Iceland, the Swedish route where prostitution sales are legal but the purchases illegal. Furthermore, prostitution is defined in law as violence. However, the punishments of prostitution are far too mild in my opinion in this country, and the same is still anonymous in such cases as those of our cousins in Sweden, where prostitutes are named. One would think that using a name - analysis would affect those who are contemplating this disgusting business, and I feel that we should film it. In any case, action is needed to reduce the demand for prostitution in this country. Although there are individuals who define themselves as the happy whore, there are others who are seriously affected by their working as prostitutes. Then it can be extremely difficult for people to get out of prostitution, and the group of paintings is a complex business for police people, as reflected in those words. in the large number of prostitutes who have sought help at Bjarkarbjörg. Perhaps none of these things should surprise us in any way, considering that one of the places that was covered last night is a stone lock from the Council and the Shire of Reykjavík, on the other side of the East. Every day, we walk by on our way to and from work, see what goes on there. Sexual abuse is expected and will be eliminated in the judicial system as such. And for that to be said, let us never speak differently, so the responsibility lies with those who buy prostitution. The responsibility lies there, and that is where it should be. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u7	A respectable president. At lunch today, I was at an open meeting at the Top Search. Weekly meetings are open, and many of these are readily available. In this case, the meeting staff of the director at Vogi and the director of a Land Hospital were at a university hospital. Of course, it was the problem I have repeatedly spoken about here. Of course, it was a question of where these 150 million were as employees at Vogi, and at the U.S.A., it was a good belief that after we decided it here, a financial committee for Christmas and for the entire Senate, to contribute extra money to the seminary. It's kind of strange, and I'm still thinking how you could have this short report, which was practically no, by this extra saving it might stick and strangely, that it really doesn't seem to understand what we were calling after. What was the actual will of the Lawgiver? We were trying to cope with the terrible problem that had developed because of the ill - diseased addicts who had to get into the hospital hall of Vog, where the wait list had become 600. There are about 2,200 in the Vog every year. Now they're to be reduced to 1,800. They are now to be reduced by 400 this year due to lack of funds. Of course, all good things are being done in the long run and the long journey of seeking help from addiction. But it does not change the fact that it must be the first thing to worry about the weakest people when they knock on the door, stand at the threshold, and wait for them to get into the hospital house of Vig, to get into therapy. Posttreatment and what follows - in fact, it wasn't the lawgiver's will, that is, mine knows, the consumption space that is a good price for the price, the walking departments, and so on. One is to come to the patient's aid when he is kneeling at the threshold and asking for access to the Gug. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u8	A respectable president. On my way to work last morning, and indeed this morning I was aware of what could be called the ancient enemy of the capital area, i.e. It's hovery. These tests make it clear that the concentration of gliders is far above the limit of normal and is called a gray day in Reykjavík. In Reykjavík, the flame will rise rapidly and perhaps even better, if there were much worse air quality here. During the days when the frost - strokes are few pedestrians, walking and biking, on the back of the box from their companions who drive on nailed tires. The rural areas in the capital area are responsible for sweeping streets and clearing bicycle paths, but this may be difficult when the weather ends. Fortunately, a transport energy exchange programme has been introduced, but diesel truck emissions are one of the most responsible causes. This leaves traffic levels. In recent years, I must mention that bicycles have grown dramatically. By 2017, they had become about 6% of the migrations in the capital area, a one - half increase since 2014. I think they're still on their way up, winding up a great way of uniting up to get to work and move. Building a bicycle path and high - quality culture transport is a key factor in combating particulate pollution as well as electricalization of the car fleet. By doing so, we make it easier for people to choose a form of transportation that will have a positive effect on their health, health, and health of others. The reduction of particulate pollution is therefore important environmentally and public health, but in this country some 80 premature deaths per year may be due to particulates. I think it must be said to place some sort of pollution charges in the capital or capital area, since freedom to make particulate matter must not be placed on the right of others in order not to breathe it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u9	Mr. President. I've been thinking about the recent discussion of whaling and importing fresh meat. I find that a certain twin has characterized the discussion and seems to be a characteristic of government decision - making in these and other matters. A lack of policy development is not available and likely does not facilitate the frequent and frequent emotional debate. Now it's time to move two yards to the Western Islands from Shanghai. In fact, many of the population are free to sell access to tourists in man - made heifers in the country of whales. Here are some questions immediately. It seems easier to import live whales from China than to import a cat from Denmark. The application for leaves, isolations, and complications is accompanied by the import of pets from Europe, but it was relatively simple to obtain permission for the plains of snow. MAST and the Ministry did not consider this to be a big issue, but at the same time, they must not import roast beef from Spain. I don't think it's normal. Will we have Icelanders on our way to an expensive trip or a travel service? Who should the image of the land be? Should we be a sanctuary for whales, or are we going to kill them, kill the whales around the country, and then bring them in elsewhere that, even over half the world? This is one of the largest traffic ports in the country and will be a small sanctuary for the poor whales when they arrive. This reminds me more of a zoo, and I don't know if it's expensive well-traveled or tourism projects. What's this supposed to be? What are we going to do with the whales, and the whales in general? Are we going to kill them, eat them, throw them in whites, or give them sanctuary? [[The president calls.]] Can't we just decide?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u10	A respectable president. The government's high focus on the affairs of children is beginning to appear in various ways, including with a recent agreement on increasing the involvement of children and young people in government policy policies and that all larger decisions and legislation should be determined by the influence of children's positions and rights. Today, policy-making is being carried out by the Ministry of Social Affairs under the direction of a transnational committee that operates with professionals and users of the system. The work is being done on a review of the Child Protection Act and an review of social benefits and support of children in Iceland, with emphasis on early intervention and cooperation systems such as school, health care, social services, police, judiciary and public goods, to name something. The committee has already been meeting nine times and working together with open groups of people with knowledge and experience in the affairs of children. The goal is to get as many as possible to get a full view of how to contribute to the well - being of children in Iceland and to make sure that they and their families get support and proper service at any given time. The next few weeks and months, the side groups will return proposals to the Senate Committee. Then there are future meetings planned at the late stages of work, and larger conferences are scheduled in the spring months. A member of the Management Board's Management Board in Children's affairs has also been appointed by the European Union member to improve the work and ensure the progress of the decision taken. Recently, the social and child - care minister sent a letter to a number of people to introduce the project and encourage those who want to contribute to the work to study the matter and to take advantage of the opportunities to promote viewpoints, whether in working groups, with a clue to the Committee, or at open meetings.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u11	Mr. President. Now on Friday, strike starts, two days from now. I would like to use this opportunity in the past to give up the discussion that may need to take place at the council, especially if the government decides to impose a law against some of the strikes once they are started. When the Parliament's pay was increased in its time, 2016, by 45%, after they had increased in the same year by the summer by 15%, everyone knew what was coming. ASI had said in the summer that if the government's tenoribility went up, everyone knew that there was a turning point. Since then, the government has been given a gallows year after year, first in February 2017, where 70% of the available wage contracts failed. Still, the decision was not to resign. A year later, 2018, the same situation did not meet, but it was decided not to resign. But now these contracts are free just because the contract time has passed. I've had a gallows every once in a while. I made up a document with all the news, and I hold back the bill that Davíð Oddsson offered back in his day, 1992, to lower the decision made by Halldór Ásgrímsson, 2006. I've got these bills, I've got nothing to do with any news on this case, so if the government intends to ban the work of people who are asking for less pay than members and other officials themselves have received. I just wanted to start warming up, the document is one 20 pages, maybe I'll make it available for the people of the country or share it with my Facebook page, some kind of Google Documents. There is all this news on a small verdict, and there's just one story after another, ASI, SA, everyone against it, and everyone pointing out that this is payday. [[The president calls.]] Let's see what happens.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u12	Mr. President. I will believe that many have done as I have this morning, those who have heard an open meeting. Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee. There, an agent of the General Assembly was a guest, reviewing the case that the Federal Republic of Iceland has run against one of the largest companies in Iceland and more companies. It appears that the traveling attorney and the bank manager did not take note, nor did they heed the position of the State Attorney, but they continued their journey. But this morning at the meeting, he said: It may be that I am now offended on behalf of individuals and companies involved there. That is, in fact, the main point. That's what an agent says. He also criticized, as he has previously done, a comment made by the bank manager on the Samherja case, in which the evidence is that despite the failure of the case, the study was not considered unfounded. It's natural to be as we know, once case has been resolved and/or judged, nothing is to be appealed except to a higher level of judgment. So how have the bank manager and the Federal Bank been conducted in this case is remarkable. I see no better choice for those who are involved in this case within the Federal Bank than for them to leave their jobs already, i.e. The bank manager and his closest colleagues. They are not reconciled to the conduct they have shown here, have not listened to anyone, and have not been given any indications or suggestions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u13	A respectable president. No. The cost of traveling by the state is 1/2009, page 6. Details on how to cover the travel expenses of airports, airports, food, lodging, minor giants, and any personal expenses. Seven. It is said that in the days of the stay and of the delivery benefits of Kingdom workers during the stay, there will be a recovery of day - to - day allowances. In the 9th. it says that the Ministers and the president of the Supreme Court receive only 2/3 pieces of daily money. It's because they simply get the hotel part paid automatically, others don't. A financial committee was now receiving an answer to a request related to these rules, as to whether the Ministry of Economics and Economics has followed these rules for top officials and legislators. The simple answer is: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No specific assessment of the extent of this repair or the deduction of everyday spending has been made. How often did high officials and ministers repay their daily money? The short answer is: Never! Despite their documented response to the council query, they get a shuttle to the airport and although we know that breakfast is usually part of the hotel court. It was accompanied by an overview of costs, how much day-old ministers received 2018, and if you counted on about one third of a diet free of food, e.g. breakfast, it is one 1.7 million who spends an extra salary of a year. For members of Congress, that would be about 4.8 million, and this is from taxes. [[The president calls.]] Someone may think that this is not very high, but when he gathers, he may collect. During this period since 2009, there are over 40 million.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u14	Mr. President. Senators have had frequent talks, including from this discourse during the past few days, on the fact that 150 million people are present. K. A temporary contribution to the business of S.A., adopted at the General Assembly for the payment of budgets under the end of the year, seems to have disappeared into the ocean or not to be returned. Now my attention has been drawn to the fact that this is not an isolated situation. We know that the country's nursing home is fighting in banks, especially due to their prior cuts, at the same time as there is a greater need for services, including the same procedure as the need for care. because you have an increased weight of nursing. My attention has been drawn to the fact that in spite of the approval of this hall, a large part of the budget was funded by a further budget for the management of nurses up to 276 million. K. to face extreme distress - I point out that negotiations are available and have been. The last time the contract was released, it took 20 months to settle matters, so that is not necessarily an indication that it will end quickly. However, the additional investor approved here has not returned to nursing homes. It is trapped somewhere by a health authority that has twice been found to ignore the will of the Alliedis. What I find particularly interesting to know and can really say is the million euro question -- now we're talking about these two parties, i.e. FEW and nursing homes, which play a major role in Icelandic health systems, are so remarkable that they are private members of the public sector. The question, though, is, Is this an isolated one? Do the budgets approved here for state health care agencies fail to return either? Is this a systematic problem? Or is there something else? [[The president calls.]] This is certainly not a good witness to the way health authorities handle matters. [[The president calls.]] Rather, it would be a serious offense to discuss in the manner of health authorities in carrying out the will of the Generalis.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u15	A respectable president. From now on, we hear from this public talk that the State Radio is the elephant of the living room in a Icelandic media stage, meaning the size and structure of the Agency. There's a lot to check on. First of all, there is no Icelandic media fight at all. It's not a reserved area of four walls. It's not with any walls. It's wide open. Each one of us runs e.g. a small number of people in an area belonging to foreign parties, where we share our views and interests and all kinds of interesting and inexpensive materials and are used as food for commercialists. International Topic Centres are working here offering programs and movies that we wouldn't last the rest of our lives to watch. In this environment, the Kingdom News has become more special and has been changing its focus since 2014 from competing with private media on international entertainment and instead focusing on its public role. Iceland's economist on March 4 published a well - informed analysis of the European press market. That's where even the two of them come from. up to 8 out of 10 K's of total income. The number of connections to the specified server is 2 K. ... fortheU.S.S.S.S.S.R. Over the past 20 years, the share of The Kingdom News in total media has progressively decreased from 26% in 1997 to 22% in 2017. The U.S. TV department in advertising media is 16% at 84% of the U.S. press department. It's all an elephant show.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u16	Mr. President. I think if we look at the media market, like a whisker. The last speaker did, and we cannot avoid saying that in a certain way the State Radio is the elephant in the living room. It is true, however, that this is true. A senator pointed out that changes in the media market in the broad sense tend to have a significant impact on how we can define the market and how we can define the territory below. Nevertheless, at the market that we can call the Icelandic media market, the Kingdom News is certainly a very important theme. That's a question we need to wonder about, including in connection with the proposals to be made to support the national private media, how to conduct the budget of the State Radio, whether it is normal at the same time financed by the nose tax, as it is largely, while being a major participants in the advertising market, which is the main tool of the private media and in many ways compete with the State Radio. We must also wonder, " Is the Kingdom News really focusing on the public service role, as defined, or is it possible that a competitive part of the business is too extensive? ' These are all questions we need to ask ourselves. But, of course, it is true. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson pointed out that the media market is more interconnected with the world than ever before. It affects both the state of the state radio and the private media that work on this market. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u17	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a proposal for Congress resolution on the decision made by the Joint EEA Committee No. 158/2018 for the change in XVII. A supplement, a brain right, with the EEA contract. The Commission has discussed the matter and has received his meeting with Bergþór Magnor Magnússon from the State Department and the Tryggvadóttir of Education and Culture. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission No. 158/2018, from July 6, 2018, of the conversion of an Annex on the Chesalmation of the EEA Convention, from May 2, 1992, and of entering the Convention of the Council of Europe and the Council of 2017 on the transport of Internet media across internal markets. Six months' delay in the EEA Convention was provided to lift controlled warnings to 7 January 2019. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The protocol aims to remove barriers that prevent consumers from enjoying services from the subscribers or can access materials they have previously purchased or rented in their own country when they travel to other countries in the EEA. As a result, subscription services will be available outside the home of subscribers, and service employers will not allow subscribers to pay extra fees for the ministry. The scope of the Regulation covers subscription services, i.e. When users are offered subscriptions for the audio and image services for currency. The services of the state radio ohf. Therefore, the Regulation does not comply. The implementation of the Regulation calls for law-changes and is intended to provide educational and cultural minister with a bill for the transfer of Internet-based material services across the internal markets of the current legislation body. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. Under the heading, write why. Councilmen Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigurbjörndóttur, Chairman of Logi Einarsson, Ásgerður K. Gylfadóttir, Bárís Haraldsdóttir, Fjölnir Sæmundsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson and Smári Mccarthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u18	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a proposal for Congress resolution on the decision made by the Joint EEA Committee No. 92/2018 change in IX. Annex on financial services, on the EEA deal. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Bergþór Magnor Magnússon of the State Department and Marta Margrét Rúnarsdóttir of the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission No. 92/2018, of April 27, 2018, of the change in IX. Annex on financial services at the EEA Convention, as stated earlier. This is a change in various directives that can be read in a committee program, and I'm not going to go into it. Six months was allowed under the EEA Convention to lift controlled preconceived notice, to 28 October 2018. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The directive is a kind of tapeworm that changes many of the stock market types because of the development of the European monitoring system in a financial market approved for its establishment within the EU in 2010. Three internal market surveillance agencies have been established, the European Bank Commission, the European Social Security and Pension Services Agency and the European Stock market. The Agency's Regulations on the setting and frame of the resources of the three institutions were implemented in Icelandic rights by law No. 24/2017, on a European financial surveillance system. The Directive changes specific types of Europe in financial markets and prescribed the sources of EBA, EIPA, and ESMA where applicable. The directive itself fell out of force within the EU at the beginning of 2018 but it was still considered necessary to adopt in the EEA Convention. The implementation of the directive calls for legal modifications and is intended to provide economic and economic ministers with prime returns for the part of the directive that falls under the economic and economic sectors of the year 2019. At that time, the directive's regulations regarding changes in European legislation on the prevention of money were implemented by law No. 140/2018, the terrorist finance operation. Under this heading, write why. Councilmen Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, Director Brunís Haraldsdóttir K. Gylfadóttir, The Fjölnir Sæmundsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Logi Einarsson and Smári Mccarthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u19	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize electronic authentication and trust services for electronic transactions. The bill presents new global legislation on electronic authentication, electronic signatures, and other trust services. The bill includes the introduction to Council Regulation and Council No. 910/2014, about electronic authentication and security services for electronic transactions in the internal market, and about degradation of Directive 1999/93/EC. The main objective of the bill is to increase confidence in electronic business through a list of right effects and requirements for electronic authentication and trust services and to ensure safe access to electronic authentication and validation to network-based services across the European Economic Areas. The bill recommends mutual recognition across crossborders of electronic authentication pathways belonging to the reported electronic authentication ship. The bill aims that individuals and legislators can use the reported electronic authentication ship in their own state in the EEA to identify themselves in the network-related service of public citizens in another state where electronic authentication and validation are required. The bill recommends that a minister may report such an electronic authentication mechanism to the EFTA Monitoring Centre. The bill also contains a general law code on the use of trust services such as electronic signatures, electronic time stamps, electronic seals, and requirements that such trust should meet according to the law. The principle of the bill aims to ensure a high level of security for any electronic trust service that has a valid position. To ensure that trusting providers and services that they perform meet the requirements of the law and be considered trustworthy employers, they need to submit a consistent evaluation and a review of the surveillance agency. The bill also includes the right effect of trust. The principle that trust services are not to be given the right effect is recommended and accepted as evidence of the judgment is only because it is electronic or that it fails to meet requirements for valid electronic trust. As an example of other proper effects, there are the rules of the bill that valid electronic signature should have the same right effects as autographs and that such signatures should be recognized in other countries in the EEA region. The bill suggests that NGCs will be monitored by Cooperative Services in accordance with the laws. A consumer clinic has been monitored on the basis of current legislation on electronic signatures, and there is experience and knowledge available in the Agency to continue monitoring procedures in this field. In addition to the national benefit of the general spread of electronic solutions in administrative and business matters, there is little cost for consumer surveillance. The bill takes an important step in increasing the use of digital technology in administrative and business matters. If the bill is legal, trust providers will be able to offer consumers and companies greater services to open up opportunities for innovation and development of electronic solutions. Widespread use of safe electronic solutions can save expenses, improve access to services, and improve society's benefits. A respectable president. After the discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u20	A respectable president. I recommend a synopsis of the Prize of the Haag Act of 1954 for the protection of cultural protection in armed conflicts. 1st manifester is Njörður Sigurðsson. Culture value for special protection under the Hague Convention is marked by the protection symbol of the contract, the Blue Shield. 133 states are members. In Europe, all countries are at that contract except Icelanders. This contract, as mentioned earlier in 1954, followed World War II experience in which priceless cultural value became the war, was blown up and destroyed. This is the first international covenant to protect culture in armed conflicts and to emphasize mankind's common culture. The Treaty controls the march of countries engaged in war and occupations and is designed to ensure protection from cultures, monuments, and institutions, including librarys, museums, and archives, regardless of source or owner. Member States commit themselves to promote cultural protection against potential armed conflicts and to preemptive measures, including during times of peace, e.g. by recording cultural value and providing emergency strategies for human activities and preparing transport of mobile cultural valuables or by promoting further protection and possession. The nominee is the legal authority responsible for the preservation of cultural values. Member States commit themselves to show respect for cultural values within their borders and within the borders of other Member States by not jeopardizing them in armed conflicts. To ensure their protection, and also to mark specific buildings and monuments with the mark of the covenant, it must be considered to enter an international record of cultural security. The Member States also commits to forming special units within the forces responsible for the protection of cultural prices, setting up repairs in the Treaty, and presenting it among the public and interest groups, e.g. Specialists in the custody of cultural prices, police and military forces. The importance of the covenant includes in that Member States benefit from his mutual commitments with the objective of protecting cultural value. The covenant is the basis for which Europe's nations base on the protection of cultural treasures in times of peace. Iceland's Member States would contribute to a better view of cultural value that is on the land and will provide protection, including the U.S. for procedures to be performed. It certainly includes some expense of the registration of cultural values that fall under the Treaty and the registration of cultural prizes that fall under protection from emergency plans and equipment for deportation and mobile cultural monuments, protection of non - motion cultural mines, and the identification of buildings and monuments with the mark of the blue armor. A respectable president. I suggest that this case be sent to work in the General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u21	V.E.G. President. I find this interesting, and since I'm on a budget board, I always wondered about the money. You're hoping at least so that we won't have much armed conflicts in our country. As noted at the end of this article, however, there is another problem that could result in the loss of cultures and other such things, i.e. It's a natural disaster. We know this, an earthquake, a volcano, and a flood. What I find especially remarkable, away from whether or not we're going through this contract, is that there would have to be some registration of culture. I just admit that I don't know what it's like in the public, whether there's one overall list, I doubt it, over all kinds of works that are present in public buildings and other such. Of course, it is also talking about our manuscripts, monuments, and other matters, so I feel that it is extremely important whether we can do this in this way or not, that this will be done. Whatever money it takes, whether we do it through this contract or whatever it is that we would do it. As mentioned above, 133 countries are members of this Haag deal and 110 persons are members of the first Annex and 81 Member States into another Annex. Then we're here, together with Andorra, Moldova and Malta, the only non-parties in Europe. The whole of the North countries around us are so interesting to know, and maybe you can get that information from across the northern countries, or just straight, I don't know how it's happened there. If we were to enter this contract, it would be good to know what we would need to offer, what kind of person or money, how much this would cost. I just wanted to come into this because I think it's an interesting thing. You may not wonder about it every day, but it's priceless. You know, just because you're interested in culture, memory, manuscripts, and other things, you're always so priceless when you start to look at them. I'm going to mention the opening of the scripts in the fall, reminding me, rather than the last spring, which I thought was amazing. This is one of those things that can never be valued for money. When setting priorities, we may need to be able to discern the scope and cost. But I'm gonna make it count for a while. I just wanted to come up here and say a few words about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for her fine speech. In fact, the 1st transporterman of this bill, Njörður Sigurðsson, works as the world stage manager at the National Archives of Iceland and has therefore been awakened to consider these matters. He manages cultural value in his work every day. I think one of the reasons the Icelanders haven't joined this deal is the old-fashioned notion that nothing ever happens here. There's never a war here. However, by the time of World War II, Iceland was also a natural field of conflict in its own way. God may know what would have happened if other nations had occupied Iceland and here might have been air raids and other types of conflicts. We can't afford to think of just assuming that nothing's ever going to happen here. Therefore, I feel that I have every reason to be a member of this contract. Costs? I don't dare say anything about him, but I think it's safe to say he's not a big deal. At the same time, we heal that we record cultural value and then we have this registration, and we can use it in another way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u23	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. In that case, it may be possible to say that the 1st traveling overseer knows something about what he is talking about. I also assumed that people knew what they were doing in the mountains. It is true that although I said we were hoping this would never be a war, I think we would agree on that, Iceland was in its time and was captured during World War II. Now there's no army on this land, and hopefully we won't be back. Although it is first and last to be protected from armed conflict, the final phrase turns to what we live in, i.e. Earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, and floods. Although we would only start this work, I think, from the fact that it was a good idea. It does not matter in itself. Of course, there is always a matter of methodology and whether this has to happen through these contracts and if we could do it differently. This was the National Library. Could such an institution accept the task? It's too bad that a 1st importer isn't in Congress right now. He could have answered my questions earlier about whether we have any complete registration, though I have doubts about. I think we're supposed to enter cultural value, and of course we need to find a way to do that. Whether this is the only way I don't know.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u24	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator again and may not have much to add. I'm generally saying that Icelanders are to be as much involved in international cooperation as possible, that they should validate all agreements offered. I also think it is important for us to consider protecting cultural values. We're also gonna need to put it in the public defence programs. A contract like that might put pressure on it and make us think about it. I agree with that. Senator I think the National Library would be a very useful platform to keep track of the registration. I think there's both knowledge and power of man. I don't know that there is a complete file, though there are natural files around the country, in individual museums, which would have to be cast into one complete file. But such work must be done. That would be a national agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u25	Mr. President. I just spoke to the highest. Education and cultural minister in the days around the local records, preserving data and such. Then I mentioned that the National Library, our chief collection, would take full advantage of the electronic data. It's very expensive putting up that equipment. So if they were to be referred there, I think that as our collection of skulls, they might be inclined to care for things like this. Truly, it would be in a different form than that proposed in this synonym. She proposes that we join the party at a certain agreement. But we have more discussions about what we can do to record these cultural value and whether it can be done in any way other than this one. Of course you can. But this is, like, a what? A senator pointed out, the pressure to bring in more people, for, of course, it also refers to cultural sites, etc. That's what's happening, like what's happened. A senator pointed to, a public security program that enables more people to consider when something happens. Most of us are beginning to assume that volcanic eruptions are reduced. I've been told that there are some people who can't see it. Of course, we do not know what will happen at any given time and what the consequences will be. I think it's national politics, and I hope that the committee will have an excellent treatment, especially that the price of this involvement will be determined and its value. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u26	Mr. President. I feel that this proposal for Congress, for the validation of the Hague Treaty, is an extremely interesting case, and is most important reason to consider serious matters and to investigate the pragmatic matters, such as any cost of becoming a party and everything that needs to be done and is important when it comes to entering international agreements. I also find the discussion important about this matter, which is about the protection of cultural prices in armed conflicts, the debate that can lead to the consequences of armed conflicts. As a sincere peacemaker, I have seen most of the effects of armed conflicts on communities, destruction, and death, affecting the lives of people in such conflicts. In modern warfare, it is always largely common people who suffer in armed conflicts. But the cultural value lost is part of the life and culture of those who are involved in the war in their homeland. That's exactly why I find this case so interesting. Although it is part of how to protect dead things, these objects are part of such a much larger context. It's so important to keep it under. That's why I like this council arrangement, even though I didn't quite understand what formal work it requires to be a party at the contract. I trust the State Department to get this case over it. My main source of peace is that of celebrating the subject and the discussion that can be made. Of course, good and important side effects, so to speak, are that this could indirectly lead us to register and establish a better system around our cultural value here, considering what could happen if there are natural disasters, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, and floods, as mentioned in the synonym. Fortunately, Iceland has generally been far away from the world's battlefields, however, there is a considerable amount of public traffic, to form submarines, around our country, and has long been known that if there is a conflict in our part of the world, Iceland can become a very easily targeted target, including. Because of our being in NATO. Although it is no longer a military base, as it once was, NATO's troops have a permanent presence at the Cheflavor airport, which makes it possible for us to become deeply involved in conflict if they break into this part of the world. Of course, the public here in Iceland is in danger, as well as our cultural resources. It is not just as you might think about the distant world when it comes to wars, but it can have a direct bearing on us here. I hope that this case, as presented here, will be discussed in the General Assembly as well as in the treatment of the State Department of Foreign Affairs and that it will lead to a discussion in the community on what military conflicts mean for people and for communities and how terrible they are. I hope there's an extra product of the discussion that Iceland will validate the Hague Treaty for the protection of cultural prices in armed conflicts.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u27	A respectable president. I'm not going to have many words in this way except for them. A senator for a good suggestion on this proposal, a very good introduction. It reminds us that when there's such a conflict, and when it comes down to it, we think about saving lives first, and then we start thinking about the cultural benefits because the cultural value is about the interior of society. In fact, these are sometimes structures that are not seen but that involve history, culture, language, and graphics that have even lived with the nations for centuries. This case is called in a certain way an issue that I know is why. A senator will move below, centered on Palestine, the Palestinian people, and the towns of the Palestinian people of Israel, where we have seen just the progressive destruction of the interior parts of one nation. We are fortunate in this country that attacks have not been made on us. We hope and hope that we will remain at peace here in Iceland, but all is good. I think it's right to participate in the world's countries to consider protecting cultural value from the horrors of war. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u28	V.E.G. President. It was interesting and important how. In answer to my talk here before another assembly case, which is later on on the program, about not buying items from the occupied areas of Palestine. But this is, in fact, what war so often causes, is to take control of national resources and, on the other hand, to control or to become the dominant position of minorities in the area. This is done by oppression, demeaning, and making it difficult for people to pursue their culture. It's part of a war, unfortunately. That's why treaties are important. As I said in my speech earlier about getting up these big and broad debates about what horrors happen in combat, it is so important that the nations of the world come together and become parties to treat treats like these, although they send out some message in the universe that people will not learn what is going on in war. This is precisely so by the rise of the common people and the opposition of conflicts that rulers listen to something and expect to have some effect. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u29	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for directing matters in a manner that is polite and kind. Of course, the case should go to the Foreign Affairs Committee, but not to the General and Education Committee, as I mentioned in my speech earlier, and I thank you very much. A senator for that. You're absolutely right, as hell. One senator says that this is especially about tying the hands of those who are at war. How important it is that the nations do the most by having in conversation and cooperation with them about the arrangement they have in their dealings, including relationships that cross some limitary boundaries, such as wars. It is important, however, that such a course be followed by some minimum protection principle, both people and culturally valuables. But as we know, and why. A senator turned aside from earlier, bitter wars, and especially today, in public citizens and is directly dependent on killing as many citizens as possible, rather than on soldiers killing one another. Second, the aim is to achieve as much destruction as possible in something such a creative war against a culture that is not in the individual's heart. We may think all of this is a remote possibility, but I reiterate that the whole thing is good. [[The president calls.]] There's every reason to validate this deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u30	Mr. President. I would like to use this second answer just to discuss the importance of being a member of a meeting law, that treaties made among the nations of the world in an effort to counteract and reduce the risk of war and the harm caused by citizens and communities. Someone may feel that this is a technical way, in fact, to become a party or to validate an agreement. Of course, that is true to a degree, but it has achieved a global success by just doing so. I just want to mention in this context of international contracts, such as banning mines, international contracts to prohibit the use of biological and chemical weapons. Now I'm with a Senate hearing that goes on and on that Iceland becomes a member of the United Nations Convention to ban nuclear weapons. It is through the international agreements that can promote their attitude and attitude toward war, and again it leads to my thinking that this case should be fully accepted, whether Iceland should not validate this agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u31	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise a change in the terms of the contracts of general Parliaments and Senate costs, more specifically advising the cost of work. It has to be said, as it is, that this may be more in an umbilical examination than is going to take place in the middle of the local council. It is a matter of Congress that has to do with our own working conditions and that is a relatively limited part of their circumstances, i.e. the costs we can get from the council office to keep our jobs out of pay, reimbursed travel expenses, and other items. The bill simply suggests that the job expenses for members of the Parliament will be paid according to bills and thereby removed to pay the monthly amount of work. This is a change in the nature of the case. It's a very simple and small change in the system we're working on, but it's a change I think, if well done, to increase confidence in those who work within the council. In recent years, the demand for transparency has grown dramatically, and in the absence of bills, it is paid for by senators at a constant rate of 40,000 dollars. During a month to meet the high cost of working, it is becoming a little bigger when it comes to how we deal with government funds. That's why I think it would be better for us to simply put in bills for them of 40,000 bucks. During a month they would appear on the General Assembly, as we can see, with the problems and institutions in open accounts. In addition, in the bill it is suggested that ministers are not entitled to reimburse jobs as members of the Parliament serve as ministers, since this cost is paid by the budget. I'm just gonna go over the background, the story, because I think it's important to put this thing into context. The current arrangement for paying the members of the Parliament's work expenses was set up with an approved law No. 88/1995, the laws here suggested to change. Immediately after the next leg of law, the requirements for working expenses were specifically taken up and changed. At that time, the initial implementation of this arrangement was severely criticized, for example. Workforce management because the first loss was the fixed payment of tax-free. As we can imagine, the accusation of self - determination is offered by members of Congress who live under circumstances other than other working people in the country. The criticism that appeared during spring and summer months in 1995 led to the evaporation of tax payment so that the members of Congress who chose to take the monthly pay paid for it would have to pay from that tax. In a paper with the bill at the time, the arrangement was to pay the cost of living as a monthly bill explained by the President's permission: ▪ Similar to this, at local conventions, it is only natural that members of the Parliament have self - discipline within a certain framework of how money is set aside for medical expenses but would not depend on the decisions made by the members of the Parliament or the Council of Government. They carry words of built - in tension about the still - existing issues. We often struggle with that, for example. how great is the authority of the individual council, how great they are under the authority of the assembly! Such discussions are now taking place regarding our work ethic when relief workers hired for council members have been enlarged. In a sense, it is normal for some authority to be paid for an individual's work as law; nor is it suggested to remove it on this bill, simply because the Senate work is often a bit of a monopoly. We're jumping into our affairs, seeing what ideas we want to implement as elected agents. There is an unnecessary situation in having to obtain permission to attend the General's office to see if we are paying off our working expenses for our participation in certain conferences or for a course or subscribe to this magazine or the newspaper. The Senator may be his own office up to a degree, although he also has a member of the council and the council's office on various matters. When this law was originally under consideration at 119th Congress, the Council that set legal requirements for the first time, a lower part of the economic and business committee against this authority, which was particularly due to the rules of the bill that such fixed payment, cost of work, should be tax-free. In the spring of 1995, the arrangement proposed to be removed by this bill received the support of all paid votes at a hall outside four members of the National Assembly and one of the Common Association and Independent. President. It can be seen that history takes it far back from the time it was last heard in cases where all the business partners belonged to groups that do not exist anymore, but that is how politics can sometimes be historic and enjoyable. On the basis of law No. 88/1995, with regard to the contract of general Parliaments and the cost of Congress, set rules for the World Council Committee on the cost of Congress on August 28, 1995. Since these rules were formed before the Allied Council was properly online, they adhered to the standard but 9 g. Their rules of conduct have to do with the general cost of action for members of Congress. I chose to let this package follow with the bill in order to emphasize how little the rules have really changed in the long time since they became valid. One of the main changes has been made in line with the changed practice of members of Congress, e.g. has needed reimbursement for the cost of faxes over the past few years but thought it would be in the rules of 1995. As is the rule today of the General Assembly member of the United States, a reimbursement of the cost of his work is due to a maximum of 480,000 dollars. every year. So I run very quickly at the cost of meetings, conferences, seminars, and so on, books, magazines, and literature, posting expenses, and telephone costs for special jobs that the Council does not pay. This law makes you wonder, " Is it gone when the Council pays nearly all the telecommunications of the senators according to an account by other means? ' Then there's a warrant for reimbursement because of the reception of guests, flowers, and gifts I have to admit that even though I liked flowers and gifts, I have never benefited. Also, there is a reimbursement warrant for a taxi car, which is something to be considered because travel costs are reimbursed solely according to bills. If you like. A meeting far away from the station can be arranged by members of the Parliament, whether they are taking a rental car or a cab, and they can receive this particularly reimbursement. There are also other teams, such as contributions and political groups and special help and the presentation form. Mr. President. I think these are all the teams we can stop at and think about whether they're the expense teams that public funds are supposed to be behind, or for example. Our contributions to our political parties something that we may want to take on our own account? I think so. I think if we could get through the change suggested in the bill, that all accounts were public, we wouldn't have to take a point and stick whatever it is we can get back in rules, but we'd have an open information to serve that purpose automatically. So we returned to a historic review in 1995 regarding the arrangements for reimbursement of the cost of work, especially because the prime committee determined the reimbursement of the senators at the same time as the jury determined an increase of nearly 10% in the terms of the councils and in some high officials, and an increase of less than 20%. It's a familiar story. The labor movement heard loud voices that the terms of collective agreements were smiling and were specifically referred to the tax - free expenses. Again, it is a familiar story. That's what you get. At that time, a convention wedding of 195,000 attended. During a month at the price of that time, the tax-free pay was 40,000 dollars. per month. Taking into account the tax freedom, therefore, the cost of working as a third - third increase in the bases was taken in the fall of 1995 as a fixed payment. Criticism led to the early fall of 1995 as soon as the prime committee, along with members of Congress, other than the U.S. National Assembly, the bill for a change in the terms of Congress and the terms of tax freedom. Not all were at one agreement, and at the head of the Senate, a smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee proposed that Ministers would not be able to reimburse their expenses with the reference that since the Ministry was normally paying all of the legal expenses, this point, by permission of the president, would be the failure to convince the people in the country that this was not a legal fee for the general council but not an additional payment, like Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, the changing law, in writing it. At that time, Ögmundur Jónasson, a member of the Common Association and Independent Association, proposed changes to pay a fixed amount of money that would not be allowed, and a monopolis would be paid back expenses according to bills. In addition, Ögmundur said that with the arrangement proposed in the bill, local council members would be paid as a mixture of job expenses and remuneration. Did he also point out that making a decision to tax the cost of work would in effect be recognized as a pay raise, at least partly, by the payment of the payment, they fell under the income tax laws. At the end of the bill in the fall of 1995, neither of these changes became a series of laws, and the bill became the law of all non-authorities, two members of the Common Community, and an independent and one member of Congress on the female list. Have the law on the annual work expenses remained the same since then. As perceptive listeners can see, the suggestions presented here are the same as suggested in 1995 and dropped. But I'd like to believe that people's attitude toward them has changed enough since 1995 so that we now believe that it is a reason to accept the change. Much of the harsh criticism that was given on the pay of senators in 1995 focused on whether the payments would be considered payback. I'm afraid that's what happened. This may be explained in January 2017. Then the prime committee responded to a letter from the presidents of the political parties to its search for committees that it revised the requirements for congregational expenses. The occasion was nearly a 45% rise in the council of Congress. It became a proposal for the Presidency Committee to reduce expenses for district travel by 54,000. and the cost of work about 50,000 bucks. By then, the expenses went from 90,000 dollars. of 40,000. per month. The Commission's declaration balances the amount to pay, so, with the permission of a president: ▪ This reduction can be matched by 150 levels. K. for tax This has come to be in view of what is here a huge amount of money between working expenses and pay. It is worth noting that this discussion does not take place in a void. The recent loss has taken place a lot of discussion as to how it is best to organise the reimbursement and set out the cost of elected representatives for their general work. The most intimate example is critical of high reimbursement by members of Congress because of the use of their own cars, resulting in the improvement of the International Presidency Committee and the increase in transparency. Following that discussion, the General Assembly began to publish information on the expenses paid by members of the Parliament. So I suggested that the reimbursement of a trip to my own car amounted to nearly 28 million. K. In 2017 but had reached 8.6 million last year, which I consider to reflect the role of the opening of the data, because the increase in the number of people traveling on a rental car amounted to 6 million in the 19th to the reduced use of their own cars. When a prime committee decided on the payment, it was still clear that there is no reimbursement of the work expenses as a normal exit point, but the fixed payment as the exception, such as the word of the rules, but it is in the Commission's announcement, with the permission of the president: ▪ The members of the Parliament are paid a fixed amount of work, and they pay for it. However, they are authorized to contribute a bill, and their money comes back to the reduction of local taxation. The pay of the Presidency Committee shows that it was fully available for the anxiety voices in 1995 to show that the cost of work over time would be some form of pay, including the salary the senators decide for themselves without a discussion in the Senate room once, this is a decision made at the closed meetings of the Presidency Committee. This bill suggests that on many occasions, it will be adjourned to end the fixed cost of monthly because, as I have visited, it seems, in many cases serves the role of remuneration as prime committee doses to members of the Parliament. It is suggested, not to interfere with the amount, but only that it will be paid against the forwarding of bills. In view of the individuals in the case, it is reasonable to publish copies of their accounts on the Generals website, as has been the case with other payments since February 2018. By narrowing the requirements of Congress's work expenses in addition to securing the payment of its expenses, we hope to contribute to greater confidence in the Generals and to demonstrate the responsible provision of public funds. So I briefly account for the articles of the bill in Article 1. proposed the change to Article 5. The law says that members of Congress are not entitled to reimburse the job expenses of the time they serve as ministers. Now it is 5th. ... refers to Article 9. of office positions that the Ministers will not receive from the Generals and the expenses given to the Ministers, as do other members of the Parliament. Here's a suggestion for all 9. will be left alone when it comes to counsellors. A corresponding law was proposed by Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, a member of the NationalTH, to change the smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee to the bill from 1995 mentioned earlier. With 2 st. The bill is proposed to make the change to 9th paragraph. The law says that there will be a license to pay the annual pay fees of senators who will be suspended, a simple change that includes only a single sentence being crossed out. The change in the law will only be allowed to pay the corresponding amount to members of the Parliament against the submission of accounts, but at the height of that amount and the implementation of the reimbursement and other implementations will still be determined by the prime committee's decision. The corresponding provision was made by Amgmund, the son of Jónasson, who at that time was a member of the Common Community and independent people, as an adjustment in the bill to legalize the terms of Congress and congregational expenses for a Council of 120th. A respectable president. I have mentioned changes in society that make this step even more normal than it was back in 1995, but there is also technology. In 1995, three years had come by the discovery of the General Assembly. In 1995, public access to information via the Internet was nothing like what we know today. In effect, this bill is about uplifting the rules to the rhythms of a new era. The rules were established in 1995, and they have not been taken lightly since then. It's a long time ago, too, because it's part of an even longer development that could be called the date of employment, as it's said in the master essay by the Sigurjón Skúlason, which I came across and recommended to all the amateurs on the subject, a paper called the 'The Sines look each to the money- to which Sigurjón claims it and gives good evidence that Congress has not begun to be professional till the late 1960s. Until then, it was a valuable piece of work. The senators received a salary from a day - to - day system according to the number of meeting days. It is in the late 1960's that we take steps toward being a full - time senator. Actually, it doesn't happen until the 1980s that it becomes a full - time job that people can have as a principal and as a career. In 1995, when Congress is taking on the impression that there are people in the full - time service and even the council, they are doing business here. Part of today's professional situation is that we show that we are living up to the confidence we are shown, including the trust we feel. by all means providing us with the resources we can personally approach. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u32	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson before his story and for giving this interesting discussion. As members of Congress are naturally aware, there has been some debate in society and also in the council's wall on these issues and related issues. There are two things I would like to do for the senator, whether or not, before I give a full talk on the subject. A senator wondered about the leading point of making this case a matter of simply presenting a case of total reexamination of the rules. As the senator entered, they have become quite mature, let us say. On the other hand, I'm wondering, and I don't feel quite aware of the report and the case, whether the senator believes that, if possible, this change might lead to an office of some kind of increased work or something like that. I mean, not that there was something negative or bad, but rather whether in some way it needs to be expected, either in the bill or in the committee's party, in due course.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u33	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. Hv. A member of the Economic and Business Committee, and I remember now that I forgot to mention to the president where I wanted the case to go, but it's probably a tradition of changing the laws these are going to the Board of Control and Control. That's what I'm going to recommend. But I believe that there is a good reason for a financial and business committee to look into this case and to wonder if there is any reason to push it into a bill that is for payment on the remuneration of the groups that were once under the advice of a host because this bill might, in fact, be an amendment to that matter. But I will leave that to the senator. Here's an idea of the overall re-examination of these rules. Surely there is good reason to consider all aspects of this - whether job expenses, travel expenses, driving expenses, or housing costs - and can be talked about for a long time. That work is being done on the Presidency Committee. I think that one of the consequences of the recent discussion is that the prime committee is now considering these issues in the overall context. It takes time. This change, however, is attributed to my opinion, and it does not take time to make it happen for a moment. Now, with the benefit of the General's office on account of this, I assume he'll be somebody. On the other hand, the hidden savings involved may be that people start counting less at the highest cost of work. In addition, there are under 11 ministers, each of whom receives 480,000 a year for a job expenses. [[The president calls.]] A good part of the work can be done with money.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u34	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for answers. Yes, there are many food holes, and it's nice to be able to point them out. As a matter of fact, I wondered if the senator is aware of, to form a list of all medical expenses comparable to what the senator proposes here, whether there is any system in the countries around us where the register is somehow more automatic than can be assumed to be done by e.g. Reference of accounts or such. We know each other, for example. the app that many members of Parliament use for driving, which is good and has probably saved many steps. Does the senator know of such mechanical solutions that could be used or heard of? Regarding the senator's comment on the chicken bill, it is an interesting thought. I hadn't thought that way, whether it is or not. It may not be worth one Mass, but perhaps as much worth a spin on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u35	A respectable president. The Senator actually answered his own question. I don't know about technical solutions or systems that can keep track of this, but I just think that the parallels in the system that keeps out of the Senate's return payments are a good example of this system that doesn't have to be complicated or difficult for the induction. I trust that if this bill succeeds, the Office of the Generals will ease its application because it does not matter that there is a paper copy between an office but can simply put a note into a computer system and that almost automatically go all the way to public release when recycling has taken place.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u36	A respectable president. I'm not gonna put on long numbers. I'm on it. I'm on it. Hv. paritaprevir Jónsson Ingónsson, 1st manifester, did a really good job of covering the situation earlier, and I have nothing to say about it. I believe that this is a responsible way of responding to society's discussions and calling for members of Congress to look at themselves, that members of Congress take seriously the fact that trust in the council is shockingly lacking in confidence toward the council and members of Congress, so that there is no pleasure. I believe that this matter, by various other means, is to be introduced to some kind of journey in the direction that senators seek to restore, although only a fraction of the trust that must exist between a council and a nation in a democracy. This is a particularly delicate work, and this is a sensitive discussion. The work is no different. It's very special, and the public rightly considers that when a voter has put X to some class and has chosen us here as his representative to speak to his viewpoints, ideals and interests, we are at work, i.e. working for voters, working with the people. We are under obligation to listen to the nation, listen to the common people, and be treated with respect and respect for the work and the lot we have taken in ourselves. People have rightly criticized the fact that members of the council were assigned to them, we can say, such as those discussed here. These are payments that are not transparent enough. The bill eliminates a measure of uncertainty about the salary of members of Congress. Indeed, there is evidence that the members of Parliament are not underpaying too little, that Congress is not supposed to be a minimum wage. I think that the most important evidence is that Congress should not be some sort of hobbí for rich people, that people who have been enriched and who do not have to do pay because of enormous financial gains may be ashamed to sit at a council like men do in the British Masters Department, such as having something to do. That's one danger. Another danger that may be more disturbing is that if members of the council are badly rewarded, they can become dependent on the forces of interest in the survival of their lives, if they are badly rewarded, to be fortified by all kinds of powerful interests. As we know, there are powerful interests here in a country that would not be dissident because some senators have working for them in the legislature. There are many reasons why members of the Parliament should be able to enjoy financial independence while they are engaged in this work. Nevertheless, I believe that it is possible to expect that the election of members of Congress is not being improved in the way that these expense payments have been paid. In fact, I think it is most reasonable to believe that the purchase of senators is high enough to allow them to run the potential cost of the work themselves, as soon as it is reasonable to settle the terms of members of Congress, depending on what may be a different type of feeding and other circumstances. I'm here first and foremost to declare support for the case. I think I represent the Continent and the Waffen. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, representative of the left green, is, in a sense, the successors of the missing categories that represented these views here in 1995.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u37	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for having the case, okay? paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson. This is the best of matters, which actually means that certain payments should be paid to members of Congress that are equal to pay, about 40,000. If members of Congress can present accounts for some kind of job expenses, they can get it back. If I need, for example. working late when I'm in the tummy and I can't get home in another way, the company pays for it. If it comes to forming tar ships or asphalt ships that night and I have to get home at that time, the company will pay for sending me home by the way that I can, e.g. ... witha taxi. But I'm always on my power wheel, so in my case, I don't have to. It is a normal arrangement for the company to have some kind of job-related expenses, but it should not be included in the salary. There should not be fixed cost of work. This bill brings money from the pay layer to members of Congress, and members of Congress issue their job expenses, pay bills, and then get their job expenses paid, such as a cab ride to their home at night after a long meeting, and a great language covering. When the Board of Elders decided to raise the salary of members far beyond the general pay development of 2016, the heads of all classes responded in such a way that they decided in December of that year - I remember that it was late in December, I think that the decision was then made in January - to take these job - related payments; on the other hand, travel costs in a district of 83,852k, and moving it down to 30,083, which said from less than 84,000 to over 30,000. On the other hand, removing the cost of work, what the senators ordered, from over 90,000 dollars. in 40,000. According to this bill, I'll take this 40,000 bucks. from the pay layer and the actual cost of work, which is very good. When that decision was made on the Presidency Committee, I made this decision to the presiding committee meeting - I can inform you here because it is my own book that I am fully authorized to inform, by permission of the president: ▪ On behalf of Pirata, I agree that the elected members of Congress will be reduced, but books say that it will not go far enough to achieve the objective of the project for the Presidents of all Groups at the General Assembly, to create an agreement and a vote for members of Congress where employees will have to accept that the terms of the salary are from 2013 while the Senate's remuneration is used on the basis of 2006.◯ What this meant was to react to some extent, which was good and we agreed on it, i.e. ... I'mgoingto setdown those payments. But that was just not enough. How did I know it wasn't enough? Yes, because when these suggestions were presented to the prime committee, I called Gylfi Arnbjörnsson, president of ASI, and asked: "What are these views? I also went to a meeting of the Professional Association. But the answers I received from Gylfi were that the workforce agreement at that time, which was tied into the collective agreements that are just getting away right now - would be in the process of trying to settle into a labour market and trying to work toward a Norwegian labour market model, i.e. The SEK meeting, and entered the collective agreements that pay ups were required in 2013. The work market, with about 70% of the labour market agreements, is now to be reconciled in 2013 in cooperation with the government in order to make peace with the labour market, while the WCC is in 2006. That's what I kept calling it. I mentioned it to the highest. The secretary of finance Bjarni Benediktsson in unsubstantiated queries. He did not respond, mentioning that the members of the council had been left behind, both in pay and in the collapse of pay. It would be time to get a proper rise. Therefore, it would have to be in 2006, not in 2013. But then it is the rules of dolphins. They want to follow, we know how it's turned out. It's a bill that's why. paritaprevir In contrast, Andrés son of Ingi Jónsson is exactly what was to be done back then. They were going all the way with this and had to do more, but this would have been a step that would have been good for them. I'm glad this bill is on. If the General deems this matter, it may show some sort of willingness to handle matters, that at Congress we are not going to have any payment on our fixed job expenses, instead of having to contribute accounts such as all other companies and other general citizens have to do. It would be a good suggestion to be in the current labour market. I don't know if that'll do right now. I don't really have the numbers all figured out, i.e. We received this tremendous rise in 2016. Since then, we have had no increase, but remuneration has been up to date. If we deal with 2013's pay development, which is normal, I don't really know exactly where the lines will cut. But sometime this year, they're gonna get cut. It remains that everything we have under the lines goes into our pockets, except for those who decide to defend it in other matters, like the President of Iceland who said he would not take his raise and intend to use it for charity. The person listed here used this amount when suing a VR scheme. Then we'll split that pay half. The cost was 3 billion. At that point, 1.5 million went out of my pocket to pay for it. I also followed the example of Andrés Ingi Jonn's Jónsson to stop taking this into the pay system when I realized that it was possible. When I first came to the council and asked about this, I was told it couldn't be done. However, it is possible. I could see that Andrés Ingi Jónsson did this and arranged matters so that I would put in bills for my expenses and that if I returned bills, I would get paid. It was at the beginning of the last year. Then I didn't use it at all. I keep forgetting how to return bills, I'm not in this for the money, I usually forget about the money, I don't know what I have in salary or what it all looks like - except what I've done and I'm trying to fix things about general pay development because that's what's important. If we are to build peace in this community, in a labour market, and therefore stability, both there and in the economy, it must be based on fairness. We know that reasonableness is fundamental in all communities. In fact, there is a fundamental value in the communities of monkeys. It's built into our brain cells, fair. There is no other way to establish peace. This could put us in a position to see that the development of pay would be in line with general labour development in the labour market. I'm not quite sure about that, but she'll probably get very close to it or maybe even get us over it. This case is addressed to the management and monitoring committee, and I will call for that data and see what it looks like now so that we take information based on facts and see what the situation is. The increases in my time, that I don't talk about the recent promotion of government executives, have led to the awakening of the labor movement, and that's good. Or it might be said that an increase in the Council of Cathedral at the time, in the wages of ministers, senators, and other officials, eventually resulted in the loss of at work. Maybe spring's in the forewordable part of a chicken council, and that's a little interesting. But it is, of course, also a product of the politicians' neglect of dealing with all the opportunities they received along the way; Pirata's bill of this correction 2017, the 2018 adjustment proposal for this correction, my dear and VR, the dear advice of the jury, the dear decision the state lawyer would only dismiss - on appeals to the Land Court. It was referred to permanently there, so all power in the country has been said that these increases were justified, regardless of whether it is the Commission, the government that decided not to intervene, such as both Davíð Oddsson and Ásgrímsson Ásgrimon, tried to do it at their time; the lawgiver, who failed to act on Pirata's bill, or accept a change in Pirata's proposal on the case, or the court order to take the matter into account of material treatment, to be able to correct it there. This is very good. It's come in at a time when people may be able to show some will. I think it's somehow the last chance for the Council to show somebody what they want about pay and elections, to be reasonable about it before everything blows up in a strike. Now these two days are over, and we may not be able to finish the bill, but if we get the case out of the committee and start talking about it here, maybe someone will be shown. It's the last chance to show the will.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u38	A respectable president. If all members of the council were as forgetful, bills should be returned. A senator would be a financial influence by this change in a positive way. First of all, I want to thank the senator for the support of the case. I was thinking when he was talking that we shouldn't forget to mention a show or something. A member of the senator's staff, Björn of Gunnarsson's Leví, asking about the cost of driving, set in motion a certain development that this is part of. This is the other side of that coin. First we need to call for data, and then we need to respond by changing rules, changing them into a highly connected field. And I find this comparison very helpful, too, for the senator in the private sector. I don't think people always realize that the role of a member of the Council is anything but an employee in a company. Regular EICs in a company can get the company to deliver a stream of needed travel at conferences, seminars and various subscriptions or what is needed to do the job properly. It's true that we senators get jobs, we get desks, computers, and office. We're getting expert services. But there are a lot of things we can't get from the council office that employees in regular offices, so to speak, get. [[The president calls.]] The cost of work is simply intended to meet it and put it into the hands of each senator to determine where the need is most important. It is important that we do so openly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u39	Mr. President. I didn't hear a direct question, but, yeah, I'm very forgetting to send in these accounts. We're getting paid Internet. I have it with a company where the Council doesn't pay directly, and that's why it's the only accounts I've brought from the beginning. I always forget about these cabs and all the other stuff you're behind. I was reading it better now, and I see that we can use this to hire expert assistance, which is extremely useful. I struggled that we might receive even more expert assistance. I feel personally right, and I said it right right after the big day of 2016, just on the Monday after Christmas Day, two days later, when I and I were. paritaprevir It's going on. Andersen was discussing this rise, that the senators should only be in the middle. Not because the pressure on us isn't that much, etc., no, it's just because we're closer to the civilian population. If so, we will find much more affordable about the financial existence of people who live in the middle. I think it's extremely important and useful for members of Congress. On the contrary, I would like members of the Parliament to have much more help around them. We can see that, for example. In the dance council. They have 2.5 employees per senator. When I review my responsibilities and hence my responsibilities as a senator, I'm only at the council with nine hats, nine different responsibilities. They care for all kinds of assignments I have to take care of. Then we're not talking about the party work, etc, that people have to do, too. I figure, if I was just looking at all the projects I have in the Senate, I'd need at least... two employees. I would need some good project manager and secretary who would hold everything so that I wouldn't be losing a ball and forgetting, etc. and thus lose opportunities. On the other hand, I would have to have a good access to a lawyer I could trust to take full care of everything that had to be done about such a case. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'd probably be in a good place.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u40	A respectable president. The Senator here refers to the situation in other countries, and I think it might be useful for a administrative and surveillance committee to consider the comparison, not necessarily to represent that we blow out of the system, because some councils have a very generous package around their members, that I do not speak of e.g. The European Parliament, where each senator can have five to ten persons at work and an office in two places and a lot of activity around him. At times, though, they used to make proper arrangements for the money they had received. Some have found that they are in a position to hire venalists for jobs that they later fail to do. This is a way to get a coin past the system. This once again reflects the importance of everything on the table and benefit. The senator also listed a number of cost groups that can be used. Being able to receive expert assistance or direction, just management advice, is something of great importance. We're in a lot of stress here. If we reroute the comparison with the private market, I think that people in the private market who are as harassed as members of Congress do often and in the environment that goes on and out of conflict with one another, making it kind of nature a matter, would long ago be with the workplace psychologist working hard to keep our jobs, which is normal to keep our core and maintain stability in our jobs. [[The president calls.]] It does not serve our clients if we burn out in our work or just get caught up.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u41	It's a natural piece of work. This is an enormous amount of stress, a long work period, caring for the council, caring for everything else, trying to care for your family, etc. That's a piece of shit. What's missing is more help. Let us just look at this: Suppose we were to reduce our wages and correct them, be reasonable, and be intervening with the nation. I think that's what the nation wants, that its members are united in their work. That's where pay is important, and I'm not talking about these raises. It's a good thing that this bill is done, and as I'm saying, somehow it's the last chance for the General to take some step towards being a team of people, to show some measure of fairness in pay and terms, something toward the general salary development of 70% of the people who now have voluntary contracts. This would be a step that could show a willingness to do so. Last chance. Regarding pay in general, I believe the people would receive much more respect if we were in the middle. It would even be better if we were in some proportion of the minimum. It would also provide a positive incentive to keep raising the minimum wage. It would be the only way for a senator to increase his salary. I think that would be a positive force in society. There would also be incentives in the direction in which The Economst and the Western financial journals call for now, that the curses must be reduced, etc. should be considered and adjust the tax system in order to improve the equation. This is what the Western financial journal is talking about now and offering detailed suggestions. I believe that if we were more intertwined in our work, we would have legitimate respect.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u42	Mr. President. Here we will discuss a change of the law on the Marriage of the Generals, i.e. what is a work cost. It is now and has been for many years that no matter what time it is, the salary of members of Congress has been very controversial. If they have changed, there has always been much discussion in the community that is truly good in itself. I've stood by the actions this has taken so far. to make our profits public, the laid cost of the council, and the nation's work, as it has been done. It's always good to increase transparency as much as possible. In itself, the bill is in the direction of increasing transparency. Congress officials need to submit all the data that are due their job expenses instead of receiving fixed pay. The first page of this report is the 1995 law, when this was the case, and it was considered whether taxpaying would be tax-free or not, or if these work expenses should be reimbursed. In a bill report, it is a provision to pay the cost of living as a monthly amount explained in the following way: ▪ Similar to this, at local conventions, it is only natural that members of the Parliament have self - discipline within a certain framework of how money is set aside for medical expenses but would not depend on the decisions made by the members of the Parliament or the Council of Government. Hv. paritaprevir The divinity of Andri Thorsson came upon the independence of members of Congress, and so on, that they must be financial independence. This points to the neighboring countries, and the council has obtained considerable information about the choice of members of the Parliament in other parts of the North. It would be interesting to make such comparisons in view of the fact that this was done in this way at that time, and the argument is there. I think it would be perfect for the committee to record this or request this information. If the council doesn't have this information, which I recall it has, it can at least be accessed. History is well understood, especially about the speech and discussion that has already taken place in the matter of changing the elected members of Congress, referring to the dress code, and other matters. It has also been observed that the terms were reduced by about 150,000, and in itself it is good to do so in order to meet the standards set, although some may not feel that they are enough. I have this feeling it's a lot of times, so members of Congress think they're on the air. I feel that we should take the discussion forever from increasing pay, i.e. not senators. When we're making comparisons, it's not easy for us politicians to compromise. Those who are in need of real dressers get little out of it. Therefore, we should support the minimum wage in a person's life. Here, however, a storyteller pondered a number of points in connection with the need to quit paying the 40,000 coin. The annual work expenses associated with the publishing of accounts on the General Information Page, as has been done with this fixed pay. I think that could be a good thing. The senator, however, discussed only that there may be less information in the legal field or in the regulations involved. I'm not necessarily convinced of that. I think it might be nice to be aware of what is listed as a deduction. The members of the council today are expected to know quite well. We've had, or can at least received, excellent information from the Parliament's Office on that. But that may mean -- and you know it yourself when you're on a trip to a big district - that this might help you to work harder at taking notes for things you're doing and somehow just doing, just as if you're inviting five people to lunch at the cafeteria because you're meeting. It's never occurred to you to charge it, but it's working expenses. I think it's better now than not, that there may be some difficulty with people taking notes, and I think it's better that it's defined as an attempt to do here, where there's an attempt to cover meetings, conferences, seminars, book and magazine purchases, scratches, post-mail fees outside the office, and other similar items. I think so, for example. normal, and I've done it, being subscribed to several local news stories in my district. This is to keep myself more informed than also to support those who are publishing these magazines. I think it's normal to do that while I'm working as a senator, but it's a very selective thing. There are also many other things that never count, and they expect you to support you because you are in this very work. I really don't think so. Some of them have never given you any thought to making a note, but it's not because I'm making a good decision because I'm putting up with this amount of work for every month. It has in itself hurt when the senators fail to present evidence of what they are truly putting out and to be included in this. It fosters the thought that this is just a remuneration, an additional salary, and not a falling price. Of course, members of Congress are self - assuming. This may be a suggestion to change that. It was also noted that this could become a cost raise for the Senate office. If the bill succeeds, there will certainly be some savings involved in the collapse of ministers. I think it's normal for the Ministers to drop out on these payments, and the Board of Directors to pay that cost. There have been certain conflicts between Council of Congress and the General regarding some payments, e.g. In the weekdays. I understand that the Board of Directors believes that they are the Minister of Congress traveling through the districts and therefore should be reimbursed at the General Assembly. Even if they enter their district, they will not cease to be ministers. They're acting like such, so I find it wrong to think like this, and I think it's separated myself. But that may be part of it. Because members of Congress are ministers, it's been like this. But this part is quite clear to me, it's to be settled. The Council is to pay for the minister and the General for members of Congress, i.e. while ministers are employed as ministers. This has been suggested in the past, as is traced on the bill, by a senator of our past series, the former senator of Ögmundur, the son of Jónasson. Also quoted are Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, a former prime minister who made adjustments in this matter of Congress and marriage that it would be removed. That's how it's been in the lake for a long time. This is both at the 120th legislature. We're not discussing this for the first time, and we're sure not the last one, because we also know that Congress cases often fail to take place in the first hour. But I certainly hope that the matter will receive a material discussion on the committee. I reiterate that I think it is interesting to consider the information the Parliament acquired to control the North countries at the time of paying, i.e. When the testimonials arrived, and when they were on high ground - the magazines even published a thorough comparison between the elections of senators - and it was discovered, as noted earlier, that although we are increasing in numbers to assist us in the matter of Congress, it is far from similar to that in the other North countries, where each member often has an entire unit around him. Although the pay is similar - I recall that in one country the pay was slightly lower - there are many other factors. That is what needs to be watched when discussing the terms of elected national representatives or local government officials if these are to be divided, these are temporary jobs, and one factor cannot be taken out of the picture in such comparison but is needed to examine all factors. I'm not gonna have this much further. I think it's good to take this discussion. It has been called for increased transparency. This may be a way to improve what we have done before. At any rate, I am convinced that we need to specify what is supposed to be reduced to our working expenses. I don't think it's appropriate for the Senate to be placed in it at any given time. It would have to be somewhere in writing. It's good to have a reference form available, and it's good to keep it in the rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u43	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the adjustment of the law on the contracts of the general council and the cost of Congress, the cost of working, as it were. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, a 1st transporter, followed in good advance. I believe that there is good reason to thank the senator and the circuit overseer in general for bringing this matter and perhaps especially why. A senator for ensuing it in a most spectacular way, with no scruples or scruples, but primarily in the grammatic way that he did. It's very important to know that the information on the Parliament's reimbursement and the reimbursement of the job costs is on the table. An attempt has been made to make the rules more detailed, as the senator went over to par. Parliamentary expenses rules. There are many items listed to form flowers and gifts that you wonder how they got in there. But it's all right, perhaps it's an inheritance from older rules or speculations. The community debate over pay and the salary of members of Congress has been considerable. Senators have likely noticed it. She hasn't missed anyone, and I'm sure that it's true that a few cases have made their point. Today's senators discuss, and especially now, some of the reproach that has been brought on them. Congress officials do and receive a refund, or what you call it, is a reliable part of the collapse of the Council's honor. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson came in earlier. Hence, such matters as this may be of great importance to begin with the way of regaining that trust. It is important that we here think about this a little bit, that we take a stand on that basis. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson spoke only in public about how this would be done. In fact, some have. Parliaments then come on or testify to how they sometimes forget or at all times some particular account, etc. This will help us to see that if this case works and finished, it would be very important for the U.S. Senate to find ways to make it as easy as possible, not just to ease the work of members of Congress, but also to overstep the overall objective of the bill, i.e. that the work will actually be transparent, it will actually be transparent what we are working on, where we are, and so on. Whether we like it or not, members of Congress are to some extent in public property, i.e. We represent the people who chose us here. As such, we are in a position to accept, and I suppose all of us have asked that our work is under magnifying glass at any given time. This is perfectly normal, and nothing is wrong with it. It has only been tore in the discussion of the terms of elections, how good or high, or under the circumstances, the salary of the members of Congress should be. There are various viewpoints in this regard. I agree with members of Congress who have mentioned that the salary of members of Congress is not to be overpayed. I totally agree with that. There's no need for that. But it is also important to remember that our salary is not allowed to be that way. It is quite difficult to make money on it, as it were on any other salary in the country. If we are about to be paid in the country so that people can feed on them, members of the Parliament must be able to do the same. I agree with what. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, who earlier said that it is not necessarily a matter of great effort to reduce the salary of senators or to reduce the pay of any part of the community. Rather, we are more likely to talk about everyone's pay so that people can really support themselves on it. I also discussed it with the question. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson whether it is for a complete review of the work expenses rules and even for terms of contract costs. There have been other members of Congress. To develop them, they've probably become quite a matter of age. Perhaps it is a good suggestion to the Presidency Committee, which I understand has a custody of the rules, that the committees try, even if this case is not approved, to use the discussion as a sort of request that members of Congress be interested in discussing the matter and being on the table. Senators would like to have these matters discussed openly and prayerfully. There should be no shy business for members of Congress to address the cost of working. I think that having the option, if we can call it that way, we should take the cost of work, as if any other salary is an unwise idea, so when we start thinking seriously about it. Like what? paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson comes in here, the idea of continuing to have some roof on what can be submitted as a work expenses. However, this will only happen if you establish some kind of confirmation that they have been costed. It's important. The Senator came in against me, and I've been thinking about it a little since, how this case mixed with the discussion now concerning the matter of the matter of the matter after the advice of the feast has been laid down, and how the decision will be made on the pay of elected representatives and top officials following it, but as it were. Today, members of the council are aware of the issue. The Economic and Business Committee. This matter may affect the discussion that is part of the committee, but I don't see the point of taking it up somehow and doing one thing. A respectable president. I think it's a really nice subject here, and it's actually the most interesting thing, whether it's going to be finished at this council or not, a positive influence on the appearance of the council and the appearance of members of Congress. However, the fact that here many of the members of the council have addressed the matter with pleasure and discussed that there is a fall in improving the appearance of the council, I think it is very positive and helpful to include in the discussion that is likely to take place. In due course, the administration and monitoring committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u44	A respectable president. At the end of the discussion, I want to thank those who participated. It's been good communication, and like what. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson said that the discussion has been moderate and perfunctory. I think it matters. If we view this as a way to build trust, it is important that we are able to talk about it without losing ourselves to some degree. There are two, three things I've been digesting only after the discussion, and I want to come in. First, what cost is normal if you count below the cost of work. There the view of having a detailed, detailed list, or gross description is attracted, and it will be more upon each senator to determine what belongs to the staff. This, in turn, applies only to those who study the evidence on the gendar's open website whether he has gone off the path or not. This list can be considered in a number of cases. For example, in the initial edition of the giants, there was one of the things that could be counted as work expenses. I was always taught that alcohol is an ornament. I think, in view of the U.S. Senate's experience with alcohol from members of Congress, we are not about to put it back into those rules. These are the flowers and presents that came in sometime after 1995 and are in the current rules. One might ask himself: " On what occasion do members of Congress call this spending team? I think it is, as the senators have mentioned, there is every reason to look at these things, regardless of whether we can accept this bill or not. There is good reason for the Presidency Committee to cover just what these medical expenses should be for. He must be so that we can do more of our work. The fact that we can count for support to the political parties until work costs, for example, I think. not to affect the quality of our work. There are many factors that today's energy doubles, and a prime committee did much to examine them. It may be right to keep the good spirit that has been in this discussion, to mention that at all this time, since 1995, each step was taken in good will. These are the rules that have developed over a long period of time, and the overall picture may have been a little wrong. Some of the things we think are due to double energy today are somehow half-whipped into the rules. I also believe that the prime committee dropped these payments with a great deal of desire to respond to the decision made two years ago, even though it is my opinion, so in the rearview mirror, that it may not have been the right thing to do. But it was an appeal in the community and from all political parties to respond to a generous increase in the salary of a pitfall, and the presiding committee did so. But now we have the opportunity to respond with greater care. If you cut down the cost of your job in a solid professional form, you might be taking steps in that direction. And I'd like to mention a moment's time of moment. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson, who repeatedly entered the big context of this case, which is the preferred general. We need to share the terms of the common people as members of the council. Of course, it is evidence that the senators have a good salary, but they have a salary that is very high enough that this connection with the public may not seem to be a good thing. Therefore, I hope that a financial and business committee will deal with the project of the bill that lies in it to determine the salary of those who were once hired, with some ambition. There is good reason to examine the basic wage for all the subsidies. The decisions of a board of fools that was swept into this case include a long period of time and is called on to situations that are often changed so that a financial and business committee did a good look into that matter into the basement. Again, I thank you for the discussion, Mr. President, and restate on the fact that this case is one of the things that we senators can do to look at ourselves and show that we can shape our situation so that it can possibly build up more trust. It is simply so that when we are personally a member of the body making public money when making important decisions, they have to endure the daylight. It's a simple matter out there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u45	President. I recommend a bill to legalise a change in the law of liquor and tobacco, the laws on the extra income of state funds, alcohol law on surgeons and public health, and the media laws, with subsequent changes. It's about a little liquor deal. Many people do not have to say that this is not the first time that this matter is being discussed in this room. In recent years, it has been put before us at the 144th legion, the 145th legislature and the 146th legislature. This case has been reassigned from 148 C.E. Actually, it's a little different from the one I mentioned here. The matter takes into account in all the main terms of the work of the General and Education Committee during the last terms, more or less, of the changes it took at the 146th legislature. I believe that the brain at least 11 of these laws were recommended to change here at the council. It would be wish for us to take a stand on the issue, whether it is off or off. Before we go any further, I'm going to allow myself to argue here that this matter is primarily about our position on freedom of business. In the light of the change or detoxification of the state of alcohol trade, the general public health issues that I respect have been held, the fact that excessive drinking is very damaging to human health, and so it is necessary to restrict access by all the available means. The problem with the logic, however, is that during the past three decades alcohol has become more available under the same State agreement. Since seven, eight or about three decades ago or about 50 today, the rates of alcohol sales have increased dramatically. An open-label period has been extended. Shopping sites have been transferred, including into all the major commercial centers of the country, more often not by the side or near the grocery store, which has been very controversial with previous requests of these laws, where it was then a matter of allowing a liquor store in the grocery store. That is not the subject of this matter. At the same time, there has been a tremendous increase in wine - feeding areas. They're considered, I think, about 1,200 today, who have given a wine permit, where we trust private sources completely to operate that function. Of course, there are many other factors. These are sensitive products that can have serious health problems, including some of them. because of possible misuse, but we trust private agents again to sell or handle the products. It is the closest thing to mentioning tobacco. There may also be a pharmacy, and there may be little more of these. In this argument, I have not realized that by the large increase in public wine camps in recent years, these reasons for public health have been very high. However, there has been a considerably louder public discussion when individual shops are closed, and this has been a source of intense complaint. Mr. President. I'm going to take a case. The bill suggests changes in the law on alcohol and tobacco trades, the laws on the increase in government funds, alcohol and alcohol expenditures, as stated earlier, with the aim of the patenting of the State's Alcohol and tobacco stores on the small sale of alcohol, that small sales with alcohol will be given free of preparatory conditions and that special emphasis on the growth of public health funds with increased donations, along with the opportunity to advertise alcohol, with some restrictions. Here, therefore, is what has been said in principle about a different matter than has previously been discussed at the council. Since the establishment of the combined drinking and tobacco trade in 1961, the entire commercial environment has been improved, society has become more open and varied. Alcohol and alcohol consumption have also changed dramatically at the same time. In this country, wine has become a major source of fruitful food culture, and the domestic production of alcohol is taking place and has become industrialized, closely linked with land-infested and services to increasing numbers of tourists. Here, too, we can bear in mind the dramatic change that has occurred in a short period of time. A number of producers of booze, especially beer, and a special beer, we can say, has arisen. However, it is important to consider when discussing this matter that the position of these small manufacturers is very different from that of the major manufacturers regarding the introduction of their products to the market, especially in the stores of wine camps, where this is dependent on significant limits on the use of the products of the product. It is only natural to assert that the current state monopoly on alcohol is a major barrier to smaller parties to markets where they are not authorized to advertise their products. They also find it very difficult to get their products into general distribution at the same stores. In recent years the availability of alcohol has increased dramatically, as mentioned earlier. There has been a dramatic increase in government sales with alcohol. The main element of the bill is, however, the removal of a private alcohol exchange. By deduction of the government's private license on a small sale and by approval of private sales, certain conditions are expected in the bill to be generally allowed to sell alcoholic beverages in special stores rather than in supermarkets or grocery stores. Then it is stated in the bill that a minister in the Regulation can stipulate that in certain rural areas it is permitted to give a reserve from the CHECO principle, which is considered indiscriminate because of the small person's ability to run a special store only with alcohol. In such cases, they should be placed in restricted space or in special space within the public stores, although it is not a visible customer of the common store. Is this done to meet the views that the arrangements of the special plant could prove to be adverse on the land. It is important to remember that this is in itself similar to what is already being done in the case of a liquor store in smaller settlements today. It is not suggested in the bill that ATSVR will be stopped on alcohol. Nevertheless, the implementation of the government's patent of retails calls for review of this operation in the light of competitive rules, so it is important that private people fail to compete with the state in a competitive manner when this product is due. Then the bill assumes that drinking ads will be allowed under restrictions. These restrictions are more important than the fact that any alcohol advertisement should follow warnings about the dangers of alcohol abuse and that alcohol advertisements should never be directed to children or young people. You should carefully step to the ground because of a special drink that is not to be introduced for granted or for general consumption. It should therefore be emphasized that the advertisements aim primarily to introduce the product in connection with its sale or production. In this context, it is well to remember that in many parts of the country alcohol advertisements are presented despite the ban. Hence, the primary purpose of the change is to control and monitor alcohol advertisements better than today and to balance the unreasonable situation between foreign and domestic parties in these areas. In the current court, any advertisements of alcohol and alcohol are forbidden. But this includes discrimination in the way that foreign producers have access to advertisements published here on the country, whether in foreign contests, on the Internet or in other audio, print, or videos, for example. By increasing networkisation the bioavailability of consumers is greatly increased by alcohol advertising, and it is therefore clear that the current prohibition has the highest impact on domestic production and domestic product development. It has also been observed for a long time that the largest alcohol producers that also produce posts have advertised this product by appeal to a similar alcoholic product and have thus been overlooked by the ban and have enjoyed a competitive advantage in a presentation for their production capacity. It should also be said that if a small sale is released without a commercial ban, it will create an imbalance between a little sale and a total sales point. So small halls would be the next monotonous plan for goods. The changes proposed to the legal environment of a business party with alcohol are in line with the indications received through a early bill and were consistent with the minimal rules on the content and format of alcohol ads presented in the European Parliament Directive and the Council of September 11, 2007. Then the bill has been reviewed by the work that is published in a financial group report on the global re-examination of alcohol law from January 2010. It suggested that advertisements for alcohol should be used with restrictions, and in fact, similar suggestions can be found in recent guidelines on the media work environment here. At the same time, contributions to prevention and the growth of public health are suggested to be greatly increased, with a special price today of 1% alcohol charge and a public health fund increasing to 5%. It is also suggested that a new provision be added to the surgeon's and public health laws, where public health funds will be made to emphasize special emphasis on preemptive work in the field of alcohol prevention during the period of 20200/2024. The transition between alcohol and tobacco, which is presented here, involves only that others other people than the government can handle little liquor, but under the same conditions, though, as well as eviction of literature for advertising. Thus the bill does not include suggestions for changing alcoholism, emphasis on tobacco prevention, or government income in this area. I think what really mattered when we consider the point of this matter is that most people agree on the importance of instruction and prevention when it comes to drinking alcoholic beverages. This is exactly where we are suggested that we make large sums of donations to such prevention. No one is minimizing the remarkable results we have achieved for that purpose, e.g. by severely reducing teen drinking in the last few years. It is also worth considering that the results we have achieved primarily on the basis of education and prevention, since while together with the results we have achieved in recent decades in reducing teen drinking is an increase in alcohol consumption. In reality, therefore, this bill is primarily being asked: Is the core of our alcohol - control policy that the State alone uses a little alcohol? Because we have private homes to sell alcohol in a variety of ways, just not in stores. As I mentioned earlier, in Iceland alone alone there were published wine licenses, including over 1,200, more and less private people. We trust private people to carry this responsibility, but for some reason, we are not at the level of retail. I do not agree with the approach that success in the prevention and education of alcohol, especially in young people, will be achieved only by state worship at a small level. On the contrary, I feel that it is of no importance in this comparison and that it is perfectly normal to look to the natural competitive environment in this area as well as to others by finally taking this step and removing the monarchy of the State in the minisalarium. Once again, the matter is centered on our position on freedom of business, our attitude toward whether we want a national agreement on every sensitive market that can sell with alcohol, or whether we should trust in other means, i.e. a general rule on such sales, but also a vigorous predestination and educational work, to counteract negative effects of excessive alcohol consumption. I place full confidence in the effectiveness of the current policy, which is the taxation of alcohol to reduce consumption, and the vigorous prevention and education work, especially that is directed toward young people to counteract excessive consumption in general, but as well as the excessive consumption of young people. I'm not going to have any more of my words on this matter, but I really hope that the council has the courage to end this matter once and to take its stand in a Senate hall, even though we are part of the deimulation of this state.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u46	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his history and presentation on this bill. I have a few questions that I want to direct to. The senator, who is concerned with the regulations of the bill, first about Article 14. I'd like to ask about this with a special store: Is it a special store that only sells alcohol? It was somehow like a special store with drinks and food. How can this be understood? Is it a store of drinks and food? So we're talking about, like, like... The Super 1 store up on the Halling March, is it a special store, or how is it classified? Another question is the idea of allowing advertisements of alcohol but forbidding posts with the same name. Could the senator simply review it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u47	President. Thank you. A senator resists. The point of the bill is, in short, that it is primarily special business with alcohol, not the grocery store, not where alcohol becomes something extra in that store, it is a liquor store, but as such it may be permitted to sell some of the related products on a minor scale. The purpose of the store is business, not shopping or other products. That's not gonna happen. Regarding the advertisement, the European Union's ideas on the subject that all alcohol advertisements, including posts often referred to as advertisements, fall under the same rules. [[The president calls.]] The rules primarily point out that alcohol is not drawn up in a positive light or are especially directed toward young people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u48	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to know the answer. My other question concerns 17. Ref., then, that is to come again 26. Alcohol. It is an amazing provision of amazing beauty. I don't see any comparable regulations in the law, and I just wanted to ask: Where did this come from? It's something so developed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u49	Mr. President. I'm not surprised that the law is very developed. I received the loyal assistance of former producer of this case, Paul Bartoszeks. That's where the law comes from. We won it together, as it were, from the last term, in this uniform. I have to pray. A senator apologizes that I have to look for specific explanations from the author of that subject, but I'll be out of the question and come to that point. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u50	Mr. President. As mentioned in the case of what? A senator who spoke to us about the matter has already been presented in a similar way. A surgeon has given away a review and the last time he gave a review, i.e. the last time the case was taken up by a committee, he included a long list of studies that have been conducted around the world in a similar situation. A senator is recommending in the bill, even when only special stores are included, as in the bill we address. I suppose that's what it is. A senator has studied these studies very carefully and would like to ask if he would give them little and discuss them with a surgeon on that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u51	President. Thank you. A senator resists. As mentioned at the outset of my speech, I do not question studies that reveal the dangers of excessive drinking over my head. It is true that there are a lot of tests, including some of them. The World Health Organization plays a major role in controlling bioavailability, as well as in reducing the total of the North countries, with a high taxation to make alcohol very expensive. I'm gonna allow me to assert that whatever is being promoted in general conversation, the increase in alcohol - control facilities and liquor stores simply shows that we have not followed the policy of limiting access of anything specific. I think it may be said that today we have full access to alcohol drinking at alcohol restaurants and at liquor stores, and it's basically saying, "We'd like to let others do the same. "
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u52	Mr. President. The World Health Organization has recently deposed an alcohol - control campaign to try to reduce the harm done by alcohol abuse. The campaign aims toward the worldwide goal of drinking 1 0 percent worldwide by 2025. The Agency has published guidelines for government on what to do in an effort to achieve these objectives. This is not to say no to alcoholic beverages but to reduce them. First of all, it is not to increase access to alcohol but to try to reduce it and limit its consumption, benefits, and presentation of alcohol, as well as the price and taxation as the driving force. A senator spoke of earlier. Does the senator claim that the bill he wants the General approval of won't increase access to alcohol? [[The president calls.]] If he believes that we will, would we not have agreed to violate the goals of the World Health Organization?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u53	President. I repeat what I said in the previous year to what I said. A senator: In recent years, I see no signal when we look at the tremendous and rapid growth in both wine - feeding areas and small - selling stores that have had special government policies to limit access to alcohol. While we have a policy on government dedication in a liquor store, the same monopoly firm has not been given any specific conditions or directives on the part of the government to limit the increase of sales places, somehow try to limit or isolate their location, as previously done. Our alcoholism in recent years, no doubt two decades at least, has primarily reversed the taxation of alcohol and effective preventive measures. I believe that we should face that fact and continue that course, but cancel the state ban that exists on the small part of the liquor store right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u54	A respectable president. First, I'd like to congratulate the senator of being a member of a large number of former senators who have presented this case in the past. I want to thank him for his honesty, which was missing here at the last time that this case was given when he spoke of the situation as being much different from what was before, saying that this is just another matter. It wasn't the message we received in the General and Education Committee from those who organized a greater part of the Committee and made it quite different from the committee with large changes, against the votes of the minority of the committee, and said that there were no major changes here. It's good that the senator's record is clear of the fact that it was wrong at that time. I believe, says the senator, that prevention is the most important thing. I also consider a number of factors, but surgeon says there are three relevant factors in alcohol and alcohol prevention: there are prevention, prices and availability. [[The president calls.]] How in the world can I think of it as an overexplaining surgeon, and that clears the opinion of the Ministry of Health that came here the last time this case was discussed saying that a change in the trade system would undermine alcohol and alcohol abuse in the country? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u55	Thank you. A senator resists. In view of the scope of the existing bioavailability, as I mentioned earlier in this discussion, when we have alcoholic stores at every major commercial store, where there are 50 alcoholic stores on national level, there are open after night, some every day, on Saturdays, and at all major shopping centers such as in the capital area, I think we're pretty close to having what could be called full access to alcohol, except for countless wine stores that are also operating here. I don't think it's going to make a big difference in our fight for moderate alcohol that privates are allowed to open their stores. It's not the problem of getting drunk if you want it at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u56	A respectable president. Now I may encourage the senator to read the less opinion of this matter during the last term, pointing out what was said by the Precinct Health Commission that the personal surveillance of those who try to buy tobacco is a warning example. Not only does it matter how many places of sale are but it does matter to monitor the ATVR with the age of those who shop there is much better than the control of private people with tobacco sales. It's just a fact, there's nothing at all there. How should we ensure that private people who fail to get into tobacco will make sure that they do not get drunk? This is something that wasn't solved during the last term and I can't see going on with the bill that we have here. It is natural to wonder, " What problem is being solved? ' The Senator will be talking about freedom of business, but I would like to approach this matter rather from the public health. I remember that the last time this case was discussed, we were betrayed that the matter would be given the direction of the welfare committee and the comments of the budget committee, and we were not evaluated for a national benefit from an Economic Institute, as requested. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then I'd like to ask the senator if he didn't like it, in view of the changes in the case, instead of sending it to the General and Education Committee, it will go to a welfare committee and be seized as the public health that it is. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u57	President wants to ask why. Councilmen to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u58	President. I think we're gonna do what. The senator will be late to agree on the emphasis on this matter. Yeah, that's right. I think this case is primarily a business freedom. I believe the public health issues can easily be met by the principle that has been basically followed so far, which is taxation, prevention and education.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u59	And access.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u60	I'm just going to say that there has been no official control of access so far. [[Up front.]] There has been full freedom on the increase in wine - feeding facilities, and I have not seen that the Vienna itself had any special limits on the number of sales markets on their owners. It is proper to point with regard to the condition, not selling alcohol to youths, that I think the private people have quite rich interests there, they are in danger of losing a permit if they become aware of it. I have no idea that the Viennas need to be afraid of anything like this in their supervision of the age of those who shop there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u61	V.E.G. President. You're right. One senator says that there has been an enormous increase in bioavailability. This is precisely why consumption in liters has been estimated to increase 2.5-fold since 1989, and this is also why the consumption of clean alcohol on a person has increased by more than 3 liters since 1989. Hv. A senator talks about freedom of business. The percentages of inTVR have increased most frequently in the scattered cohorts. It has also been put down post office in place of former alcohol distribution providers. There has been no increase in the number of those places on account of themselves. Wants to play. A senator prevents the growth of wine - feeding grounds because he is told about freedom of business? The largest increase in alcohol sales over the past 25 years is due to an increase in alcohol consumption status. I'm asking why. A member of the Parliament: Does he want us to place further restrictions on the rise in wine - feeding facilities? It's a little piece of shit, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u62	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. If we take this access talk a little further, it is likely that it is important to do business with alcohol or the post office. It could now destroy whole weekends for men when they did not receive their mail but now they can just go shopping. No, I'm not measuring that we take to the limit the increase in wine markets. On the contrary, I think we should trust people to take care of our own health. We are to teach them about the dangers of excessive drinking. In this context it can be pointed to another harmful cause, which is no less in the public health discussion today, i.e. sugar. We're not shooting state worship with sugar. Simply put, we are directing education on a healthy way of life and a healthy diet to help people cope with the trends in it, and we can do just the same when it comes to alcohol.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u63	Mr. President. I don't know any man who's been full of sugar. I just want to come into the public health department on this matter. It is certain that if this bill becomes legal, we will evolve toward the consumption of pure alcohol per person each year, it will be about 11 liters, similar to Germany, England, and Denmark, where people die on average four to five years younger than we Iceland. This is now certain that an increase from 7 litres to 11 will lead to an increase in cancer cases, cardiovascular events, as well as an increase in alcoholism. The question is, What do we intend to do? A senator and his co-mates for the easy-looking public health that this bill will have? What do they intend to do to limit or prevent what I said before?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u64	Mr. President. I say that again during this discussion: I have full respect for the harmful health effects of excessive drinking. There's no dispute here. It is simply a debate over which of which we share the criteria. I would simply point out that, as with so many other concerns about excessive consumption of foods, tobacco, drugs, and alcohol, it will be best with increasing emphasis on education. In fact, we recommend making donations for prevention and instruction on the harmful effects of excessive drinking. Thus we resist the negative effects of the same excessive consumption.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u65	Mr. President. On one occasion I stood outside this house, good if it wasn't ten years ago, and laughed at the people standing in this house, having burned wine in a camp. I thought it was so typical that in the middle of a livestock revolution, meetings were to be met and the first thing to discuss was whether alcohol could be sold in major markets. It's been ten years since this was happening, and here's a bill that's so different from the bill that they talked about, because that's when the public was talking about taking the alcohol into a bonus next to the diaper and serios so that it's probably on its way all the way when the common citizen was going to get his food. This time, it seems to me that the bill is turning towards two, one on the other hand, cutting off the ATVR patent of alcohol and the other on the subject of advertising. Of course, when it comes to the personal sale of ATVR on alcoholic drinks, it's a total nonsense because if you want to get out of alcohol, you can almost walk into any bakery who decides to heat the bread a little bit, put a little more between the slices, have a little salad aside, and even a flay. There the person may apply for permission to sell beer with the bread. So access to alcoholic drinks in Iceland is pretty good. Alcoholic beverages can be purchased almost anywhere. Today, alcoholic beverages can even be bought at the fine junk in Bolungarvík, formerly known as Geirasjoppa, now known as a Viking bowl. This used to be a gas station where you could buy ice cream, but now you can buy both wine and beer because the menu is only developed and your foot cheese has been added to the salad. This may be what makes me unable to oppose this matter, and I love the twin during the discussion so much. I think it's a twin when we decide that only the government's alcohol and tobacco shop, now known as Vienna, can you buy the bottle at the price of it, but you have to go to other places where the cloth is many times if you don't want to go to the Vienna. It's not about the availability of my information. The availability of alcohol for a person who wants it is pretty good at any time of the day, almost anywhere. It's about creating special stores around alcohol that may focus on certain species, textures, provinces, countries, anything. What I would like to discuss, too, is the singles who are making beer in many parts of the country and are actually able to present their Icelandic production. I think it matters too. It has become an amazingly interesting agricultural kit, so let's say, from the farm. It's amazing to visit small productions that make one or two different species. So I went back west on the fjords had recently opened a tiny house on the ice, which is incredibly fun. This is a family that gathers and puts tickets on the bottles, but they can't be sold because it's only the government's alcohol and tobacco shop that can do that. I'd rather have us think only about giving the Icelandic producers a chance to communicate, those who are interested in selling the product and who do so possibly in ways other than Vienna. Although she was exemplary, there is a limit. People may want to have a business with fun beer, even domestic production, etc. This is how a person from abroad can go to a small camp that only sells beer or only wine from this and the other country. The other one with the twin is the advertisement. Today there are posts all over the place. The tiny letters in the corner show that they are pewts. Such advertisements can be everywhere. In this bill, I was very happy to see very clear rules about advertising. The clear rules also include posts and other products of the same name and similar strong defenses within the limits set at 3 mg. Section 16. So if you have something called Bols, you can't write and advertise Bols, anywhere, just because the person's posts have written tiny letters in the corner or has some famous actor whisper the posts over the advertisement. Of course, it is a matter of dishonesty or advertising - to promote the intense drink of Bolsi with advertising and then whisper post - to - date posts. Because we don't have any real rules on advertising, I like to set this law here and set it as a requirement for all advertisements, whether it is postal advertisements or alcohol advertisements, a warning that alcohol consumption is bad for them. That's where the genius lies. That's when the message's very clear. That's what you see in a lot of places, for example. correspondent in Sweden It can be advertised, but it will be noted that drinking alcohol causes health damage, for it certainly does. We know that drinking too much alcohol causes health problems. If we could just leave this behind for that wonderful bill, I'd be pretty happy. I think that the knowledge of what alcohol can be a disaster and how much damage it has done to many families is very good. I know. When it comes to access, I would like to point out that I think the availability of alcohol has rarely been as much as it is now. However, juvenile drinking has reduced significantly. In fact, we travel around the world and take pride in the city of Reykjavík. We do so well to have a reduced teen drinking that it is famous all over the world. At the same time, though, youths can go to the shops that put their feet on the salad. The bioavailability is equal. They can order all kinds of cars, all kinds of harpoons, buy all kinds of alcohol here and there. You can do it. It's easier now than when you had to meet at the Linda Street table and pretend to be 20. I think there's a lot more access to alcohol today than before, in restaurants and elsewhere. I think this simple approach will help. Yet, the young are evidently more sensible. So I'm not sure that we need to be afraid that they will run up to and up and down and go to the special store rather than to the liquor store, for a wine store is, of course, a special store, a government store. There's something else in the bill that I like to celebrate. I think it's good for us to talk it over at the council. But at the end, because time is running away from me, I would like to spend some time discussing 26. a law to become, a change in alcohol law, which is 17. The bill. There are laws of punishment, penalties of offenses, and I think the committee to whom the case is being discussed should be specifically considered. It has to do with fines or prisons up to six years - and then there's a long list of matters involving fines or prisons. I look forward to observing the discussion on this particular arrangement and where it came from.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u66	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this speech. I don't think that there's much like a misunderstanding in a case. A senator's case, i.e. they say: Here is the full access. That's right. However, the bioavailability has increased dramatically over the last 20◯25 years. Therefore, consumption of alcohol in Iceland has tripled the number of liters since 1980, as shown by the largest level of alcohol consumption, i.e. a litre of pure alcohol per person per year has increased from over 3 liters, between 3.5 and 4, to 7 to ◯8 today. This is because of the increased bioavailability. The largest part of this increase of sales, according to the surgeon's report, is not in wine camps but in wine stores. We know the consequences. We know that there have now been cases of cirrhosis that did not exist virtually in Iceland before. We know that if we still open our bioavailability that alcohol has consequences. This bill will, on its own, be expected to cause the consumption of liters, i.e. Clean wines per person, they will go from 75 to more than 11 gallons [11 L], with the resulting results. That's why I'm asking. A senator like me asked a merchant earlier, "What's wrong?" A senator will do to cope with the health problems we will face as a result of this bill? [[The president calls.]] How does she want to deal with her cancer, cardiovascular disease, and alcoholism?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u67	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. I want to respond to all these medical problems with increased training. I think that would be a very good thing to do, for example. The legal fee suggested that these persons who sell alcohol in these special stores be paid will be placed in a special alcohol supply. Besides, I think it's in allowing advertising on how destructive alcohol is to people's health, too, that specific education is also involved. I think it's a positive step. I'm pretty sure. That's the twin in the matter of alcohol, however, that I think is the worst for us. It seems to be both at the same time, a lot of tolerance for alcohol, but also some stiffness. As today's policy, it seems that it is quite normal for every 18 - year - old or even 17 - year - old to start a teenager from high school to start drinking. It's just this kind of talk as there is a growing number of young people who decide not to drink anything and who never drink. I think there's a lot more to boast about, but at the same time, we use money to point out the dangers of alcohol abuse.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u68	V.E.G. President. We have a lot of tolerance for alcohol, is it? Senator. I'm afraid we're going to have to cultivate an even greater tolerance to it if we're to increase the alcohol consumption of a person from 7 litres of pure alcohol up to 11 litres. Then we need to be more tolerant than just most of the people I know about. But that's different. I noticed why. A senator once said that it was difficult for a dictator to communicate his product. Now I don't know what it is. A senator would like to hang that condition around the neck of the ATVR, but I would like to point the dog. A senator is here near the councilhouse, a small wine - feeding house that had to be installed for himself because they could not get into the winehouses downtown because the big production companies had made some kind of special agreement. It was the largest party like the Allegory and Viking in the role of a good friend of my name, huh? paritaprevir The son of Víglundsson, i.e. I'm sure it's the mixer. They had put a monopoly on a beer sale here in the middle of town, so the little parties were forced to open their own way to these parties. There's another thing I like to do in speaking at each time. A senator, its tolerance for advertising every day, and known actors whisper: It seems that it has nothing to do with the illegal use of alcohol advertising in Iceland. Another is the softness of those who observe that the offenses that are indeed taken and the violations of these laws are not taken hard every day. There's no need for a law on this, they just don't have to do it. It's not what. A senator would agree that if we set a law, we should enforce it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u69	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to answer yes to the final question. I am very close to the fact that we obey the law. That's why I'm very involved, because if we're going to do this, we're going to do the law, because now foreign advertising is also going to run over us, we're going to do it in a hell of a way. Any person intending to advertise should also advertise that alcohol is harmful. That's what I was pointing at. Even if nothing remains of this bill after it has passed through the committee, if it ever gets there, it would still be a step in the right direction. The ads are already there. That's what I know. A senator has approached. The ads are certainly there for those who watch sports games on weekends, magazines, and anywhere, even on the radio, many times on the radio. There's hardly any concerts in Iceland that can't be whispered about Bolla's drinks, and later on they're playing. It's just that way. Rather, let us keep it so that there are clear rules. Anyone who is going to advertise alcoholic beverages should say that alcohol is harmful. I think it'll have more effect than anything in this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u70	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Vala Helgadóttir for his speech. It was about a lot of interesting things. I wondered if the senator feels the public health issues that have been determined to determine whether we should usually increase access to alcohol or relieve the restrictions on it now, or what we call it, sufficiently tore up in the bill. There is a possibility, and there is no study, not considered, that increased bioavailability leads to increased consumption. There are likely thousands of studies around the world. That is the view of the World Health Organization. It's a surgeon's opinion. In fact, as the senator came in earlier, we have already made that experiment in Iceland, i.e. The number of sales sales has increased very much, in bars, and in other places where alcohol is available for sale. So it is not surprising that consumption has increased. However, the question is: Is there any reason to take further steps in the face of this global fact that by adding access to alcohol consumption, alcohol is increasing? What are the reasons why we take that step in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u71	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. That's right. That's right. That's right. Senator, we've been trying to increase the number of ATSVR sales, increasing the number of Vienna stores in many parts of the country. We have also attempted to allow beer sales in Iceland, which has greatly increased alcohol consumption. But as far as I know, with permission to sell beer in Iceland, alcohol consumption has also changed considerably and is not really as extreme as it was. As a result, our association with alcoholic beverages has changed. It's less about massive drunkenness and more about the same marination, as I like to call it. Do we want to ban alcoholic beverages? I don't know. I'm not particularly gifted for that kind of thing. But as I've been inside before, it doesn't change in itself whether I'm going to the Vienna store to buy the beer or the special store on the next street. This is not such a bioavailability issue to me. You can buy your beer anywhere, even in the bakery like I came in earlier. [[The president calls.]] If a man is thirsty, he can have the beer anywhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u72	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. She discussed an earlier use of beer, and to some extent he improved his consumption patterns, had a positive effect on him so that he reduced extreme consumption. I'm not going to question the possibility of doing so. But the other is that consumption, such as the senator tore, less than more often, as the pattern seems to be moving, is precisely the type of consumption that is worse with regard to health problems. It is as if they did not believe in it when it has been pointed out over the years, but there are many studies. Tribalism, as unmistakable as it may have been, may have been, in the past very dominant state, still is less dangerous to health. Socially, though, it's naturally scary. I think everyone can agree on that. The problem, however, when we are going to try to make decisions such as this: Alcohol disease is essentially a chronic disease, a disease that develops over a long period of time, as well as the consequences, e.g. liver disease, cancer, and other diseases that are more involved in the consumption. In fact, we do not know until 203/4:30 years from now what the consequences are. But then we have the very experience of other nations. [[The president calls.]] We don't have to go on the same ride. I have to say just as it is that I don't see the social problems this bill is going to solve.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u73	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for later answers. I think this bill, like so many people we're dealing with at the Council, is not about some big problem so you know, except maybe the show that I'm a little busy with. It's also because I've watched the media doomed to publish alcohol advertisements, an Icelandic medium, which is placed next to the foreign media, which is almost ads on the front page. That's why I think it would be very clever to get the additional one through the fact that alcohol is harmful. Then we're at least has made sure that this advertisement goes everywhere, not at the cost of the state, but at the expense of the person who wants to advertise. I think it's pretty good to have the alcoholic drink advertised that he's harmful to his health. What about the problem? As I have learned many times, a person who is inclined toward alcohol can get himself drunk with very little problems, almost anywhere. A person with a drinking problem will be even easier to get himself out of alcohol because he has likely thought about it since he woke up. It has not usually been a problem for those who have a drinking problem not to be able to buy alcohol in Iceland. That's not the problem today. That's not what it's about. [[The president calls.]] It's about a certain prince, whether the State's camp is the only ones who can sell alcohol at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u74	Mr. President. It may be right to state before I start that I have a lot of experience with alcohol, including purchases, both in the country and abroad. I know exactly what I'm going to talk about. I'll start by talking about what 1st of the bill seems to like to talk about, i.e. The freedom of business. If I get it right, it's just about who gets to make money. In other words, it is very important that the State earns, not money from selling alcohol, but from some private people. I can't understand it any other way. Then I must say, Who shall have this? Who is the best friend who needs to sell alcohol? Why do we need to hand this over to someone in private? Most of the bill seems to be going around talking about how dangerous alcohol is and seeing how dangerous alcohol is. That is why he wants to distribute what is most dangerous because it is so dangerous. I can't quite figure that out. I have to say, I feel that it's a rather cheap argument to go and talk about how well we've been doing, and that's why it's safe for us to distribute alcohol elsewhere. It's always been said that drinking has brought so much relief to young people. But like a dog. paritaprevir Sæmundsson pointed out that we have not reduced our drinking by older ones, we drink much more. What about us? Here this week, the senators have come up, a man by man, and said, "We have to give the ATSVR more money. [[Upwards: FEY.]] - S.A., not TVR, thank you. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I was just reading reports earlier that today there was a conference on the U.S.A. that said that the waiting list had never been longer, that would be a big problem. Hv. A senator pointed out that this was the 11th time a bill like this was delivered. Then you must think, " Isn't it fully developed? ' How often is this bill being transferred to the council? Research has shown that this is not the case with the Icelandic nation. She doesn't want it. She seems to have sufficient access to alcohol, for a carrier says so. There are 50 liquor stores in this country. There are 1,200 restaurants that sell alcohol. Alcohol consumption is readily available. Everyone can get drunk whenever they want. What? No, it's still gotta be allowed to sell alcohol to privates. In fact, the bill says: ATVR should not be dropped. It will remain. I'll figure it out. Then the song, like VR, begins to take way too much space on the market, they could even offer a lower price. What? So we're just going to sneak it in by saying, "No, no, we're not gonna put down the ATVR, but later we're gonna have to change the ATSVR law so it won't get in the way. I can't understand it any other way. Before someone says to me, " Do you always want to know what people are like? ' I'll say, "Yes, that's the way it is, I'll just admit it. " I'm gonna make sense to people. There are a lot of people who need to know. It's a lot of people with alcoholism. There are a lot of people who have mental illness. There are a lot of people who have problems of all kinds and who use alcohol. I'm here to try to make sense of it and to keep as much alcohol away from it as possible. It's just that way. If you read the bill, there's no question that alcohol is dangerous. It is encouraged that alcohol is advertised as much as it can be, and prevention is encouraged. Alcohol access is expected to be sufficient. I suppose it's some kind of princely affair that it's just not the government that sells alcohol, the public can't sell alcohol at all. So, is this just a change? Is freedomism merely to win? I mean, can't the State just be in any kind of business that could lean on someone? I couldn't help but admire what I was reading, when it lists how dangerous alcohol is. Regarding advertising, they say: Alcohol consumption should not be associated with improved physical ability when driving. - I don't know who would. It must not create the image that alcohol consumption contributes to an improved social status or is associated with sex. Do not indicate that alcohol has a therapeutic effect, is stimulating or soothing, or helps solve issues. Do not encourage excessive consumption or moderate drinking in a negative light. High alcohol concentrations of alcoholic beverages are not to be associated with their quality. Moreover, every business or telecommunication - I do not fully understand what it is - for alcohol, the warning that alcohol will cause health problems. So alcohol is dangerous, but all is fine because youths drink less. And alcohol is so dangerous. Well, let's just let privates sell it. In other words, the only purpose is to put down the ATSVR stores, but not during the first step. But they can still work because - I don't know, maybe it led to unpopularness. The last time this bill was submitted, a lot of talk was made about ATSVR employees who were government workers, and they may not have wanted to stop being public employees. So now it seems like this. The bill says, with President's permission: The objective of the bill is to eliminate the government's patent on a little liquor and to allow privates to sell such subjects to meet certain conditions. Then comes my favorite part. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir mentioned: The television project assumes that alcohol will be generally allowed to be sold in special stores, with food and drink products, not large markets and grocery stores. Hv. paritaprevir Þorstein Víglundsson elaborated on what sort of stores they were. - Special stores with food and drink products, not grocery stores. Is it, then, maybe, like a cot? paritaprevir Helga Vala talked about, foot cheese with red wine? There must be some food that especially fits with alcohol. I don't know what else to be, or whether it's candy or what. So, of course, there's an exception, but not in the country. " What's not a big place enough to be with a special store? ' So, are we talking about Selephos, Whotype, where thousands of capitals drive every weekend in the town of summer? Should they be special shops in the capital area, say Hafnarfjörður and Kópavogi? I don't know if it's park town that's big enough. And then we have Hoato, Selephos, a carburettor, a sheep's craze. Every time we travel there's liquor stores in the grocery store with a reserve, but here, maybe just 101 or something, there'll be some gourmet shops with expensive red wines, cheeses and dates or something, and foot cheese. I'd like to say to the carriers of this bill, as we've been doing when the case was first delivered ten years ago: Is it not enough to move some bill 11 times, and I've never made it past the Council? I don't know if there's ever been a committee, so there's so much opposition to it. It was mentioned earlier that a person who wants to drink can always get a drink. However, a smoker can always recover from cannabis. Is that the next time you're going to let it go because it's so easy to get? In the news last night, they said buying prostitution is just like ordering pizza. So should we always yield because it is so easy? It's very easy to drive at 120. So let's just let it go? It's always about giving up rules, it's so easy. It's so easy to break the rules. I don't think it's entirely incomprehensible that this is supposed to go to private but not to put down ATVR. I know I've said that before, but I don't doubt that even if it's going to be in some special store, the biggest parties in the market will be opening camp. I am quite convinced that both bonus and Cronus will be offered very soon in special small shops with which the shopping chains have, which have the market market position in Iceland. Do you really think they won't take it? Using the argument that some little beer producers don't get their product that -- I just don't think that's fair, not any. Of course, they'll come in on their own if they want to. Then, suddenly, you're going to go against advertising dots. It said that freedom of work and freedom of business were at issue. However, in the same bill, advertising that is permitted today should be banned. So it's all freedom. Instead of saying, choose what advertisements are allowed to do: "Just put the rules hard as they are today. ' Let's just deal with the people who cheat on advertising. This is being done more beautifully by saying, "Yes, but we're still gonna ban those posts there, they're not very comfortable. Sometimes I think this bill's carriers are afraid to be homey and coco, they just have to be like abroad, there's always a reference to ◯yes, abroad I can always buy beer, abroad I can do this and that. Of course they know, as they have been told, that in Iceland you would be relieved to be drunk 24 hours a day if you wanted to. As may be known, it is a small matter to walk out of the General straight into the next bar, which is now open. It's no big deal. It's been no problem for the generals or for others to drink alcoholic beverages at the same time. So here's what it says, I underline it: ▪ Give funding for prevention and education to promote human health. Overindulging in alcohol is harmful. It is harmful to the person who has such a drug addiction and to the ill effects of his family and family. At the same time, alcohol consumption is at the expense of society's excessive and illegal consumption. The most effective way to reduce alcohol abuse is through prevention, education, and treatment. That is exactly what the senators have been talking about. They come up here in line and shoot a health minister, why he doesn't do better in giving the U.S.A. more money. Because everyone agrees that the drinking of Iceland is a disaster. Everyone agrees that a large proportion of middle - aged men have been treated by Vogi. That's for sure. As noted, alcohol consumption has increased. Although it has blessed a reduction in 14 - year - olds, and we have done well there, it has grown with middle - aged men like me. It's just a fact. They say that alcohol has become such a rich part of the culture of food. That's why we have to sell alcohol elsewhere. I thought that food was mostly sold in restaurants. And as others have said, it's easy for you to arrange dinner parties with so many hours in advance that you have the opportunity to go to the store. As everyone should be aware, I am by no means wearing this bill. I think it's some kind of liberal prince thing, that some private people will just have to sell what the state does pretty well.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u75	Mr. President. Thank you. The speaker's speech, and he feels that there is no need to worry that we are overlooked that he is opposed to the matter. But I wondered a little bit about two questions at first. Hv. A senator seemed to be deeply concerned that a private person might be able to profit from alcohol. Of course, they do today, but they also lose a huge amount of money on it, as it is famous. The running of restaurants is not going too well, especially for now. Why, though, is it worse if a private person could benefit from such a store than from the government? Is there anything more civilized about the state's making money on a liquor deal than a private one in that regard? And, of course, keep in mind that the State is making money on its toes at a liquor store, primarily in the form of the high alcohol charge prescribed. I find that in all this discussion, alcohol consumption is painted in a way that is incredibly negative. It is just an amazing number of people who drink alcohol in moderation, not too often, not too much, and enjoy a good wine with good food, and so on. I'm sorry when you're always drawing up that great need, like a whale. A senator, though, was quite honest with others for not trusting people in their own decisions. If it wasn't right, then what? A senator, to severely limit his access to alcohol, probably the funding as well, according to a high level of opinion. A senator? [[The president calls.]] Why don't we just close half the stores of Vienna?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u76	Mr. President. That's quick. I don't think private people should make more money. Me and what. A senator may be at either end of it in politics, and I'm rather much for the good and big business of the state, that's absolutely true. Hv. A senator makes it clear that there are a lot of people who drink moderately and treat wine well. I don't understand that these people are this great pressure group having to have wine elsewhere. It has been noted earlier that I have been working as a police officer, and maybe just watching people, day - to - day family fathers and women, who can't afford to leave tonight for a fine meal, have expensive red wine, and end up so helpless in Luunty Square. It's all too much of people who don't know how to use wine. Hv. A senator may not have mentioned this, but it is often said that foreigners would like to have so much access to wine. Nor have I seen much protests here, that they have no access to wine. I haven't heard anyone complain about getting drunk. So it's just that we disagree about who's going to make money selling wine in Iceland. I don't want private people who already have a market manager to start making more money on selling booze.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u77	Madam President. I don't have any more questions for what? A senator. I thank the senator for an honest approach to the matter. In reality, this is nothing more than a clean, intelligent premeditated attitude, a failure to trust people with their own decisions. There are dozens of tests and studies that show that people who are actually troubled by addiction to alcohol take them wherever they are found, in cabs, at bars, at the liquor stores that are found, wherever they can be found. The bioavailability does not limit the consumption of this group. [[The point is, I'm sure it does.]] Certainly not in the light of the current availability of alcohol. It is simply an incredible lack of confidence in the personal enterprise, predestination, and a lack of faith in people's freedoms to know their own ways. I don't understand this presentation, but thank you at least for his honesty. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u78	Mr. President. Yes, it's a lack of faith in the personal enterprise. But there's always talk that people get drunk, that those who want to get drunk, don't limit the availability of alcoholics to wine, they always find a way. But what about all the others who aren't so thirsty for wine? Would their interest be restricted by less evidence? I'd rather you were. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson may drink less if it was more difficult for him to get wine, if he is so moderate on wine? I agree that living with alcoholism is a terrible thing, but we can't make the law out of it. I say again and again, I think that the purpose of this is for someone to make money and I just want to know who it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u79	V.E.G. President. After I listened to what I heard. For two minutes, I thought to myself, " I'm 50 years old again. ' So when I listened to him for five minutes, I was back 100 years. This discussion is always about those who do not know what to do, who abuse alcohol, and who do not know what to do. This bill doesn't change anything about it. I completely understand the need of the senator, like many other senators and especially his party, to make sense to the rest of us. True, it has never been successful in the countries where it has ruled over the government and the private enterprise has not allowed it to heal, which is so dangerous, we know exactly what happened to all the communities and the misery and oppression that followed them. I'm not saying that. A senator wants to go there right away, but this speech was still there. Faith is there. I don't have anything to say about it, and I respect that view, even though I think it's incredibly harmful. It may be remembered as harmful in this case, for it is not a big deal in that sense. However, I would like to point out that it is one thing to be aware of others - I also want to know - and I would like to use the force or authority to make decisions for people. There's a big difference. And the question is, They don't want to do this. The people have just never voted for this. We're not even allowed to vote for this vote at the council because there's always going to be a filibuster. Just let us vote for this vote at the council, let's try it, let's start with it. It is not natural for those who do not partake of the product to vote for it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u80	Mr. President. It is good that we agree that we will likely always have a very different view of ourselves. Of course, it's hard to be 50 years back in time, so much younger than that. paritaprevir Brunes the Brynjar of Níelsson. I took it in the beginning that I am an alcoholic of alcohol and must be allowed to vote for it. In fact, I said that I was an international consumer of alcohol, and I bought it in many places in all kinds of stores. I have bought it in the North countries where the government is responsible for selling alcohol. Hv. A senator spoke of the good things that freedom was good, and perhaps I will go back even further, pointing him to an American community where freedom is given out, where people often have very poor terms, and alcohol consumption is a major problem. I said I like people to know, but what? A member of the council and a member of the shipping department are primarily talking about the privilege of selling wine to some private people. There's no one to talk about, I think, to stop selling wine. I never mentioned that wine should be stopped. It's a liberal bill, and it's a good thing that there are liberals in the Independence Party, and he's expected to be founded on it. In the left green, there are not liberals, there are people who love other people, and there is nothing more for an entire group of people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u81	Madam President. Freedom is wonderful, I do what I want. It's just very important. Of course, I am very interested in alcohol. I drink alcohol. I think it's a good influence on me. All I didn't like in this bill was that there should be a warning about the dangers of alcohol abuse. There's research that says it's only good in moderation. [[Foreground on: No.]] Well, I guess there are tests on that. Hv. A senator may disagree with them, but studies show that. I am confident that alcohol is very good for me, both physically and spiritually. I couldn't imagine my life if I didn't have alcohol. I remember a time when I did not drink and was constantly depressed, depressed, and anxious.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u82	Mr. President. Alcohol has had a good effect on me too, but very little. As they sometimes say, all bottles do not have the same joy. But I don't understand why. A senator is always talking about a person's refusal to drink. No one's ever said anything about not telling you what to do. paritaprevir The armoury of the son of Níelsson to drink, not as I have heard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u83	You're going to limit...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u84	This bill is more and less about 50 liquor stores in Iceland, 1,200 restaurants. We can just go out and drink... [[Case number two: Must not be less.]] You see, this is about some friends of Bruntur the Brynjar of Níelsson selling liquor. It's not about anything else. So there are some general halls, some who run Hagah or other chains of trade, who need to get to the carnivores. That's all this bill is about. Everyone agrees that alcohol is dangerous. There's enough of that, just someone besides the State Alcohol and tobacco business needs to sell it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u85	V.E.G. President. I must confess that I am a guardian of such a course. A senator who spoke before. I'm against asbstast in buildings, I like people wearing seat belts, and I'm against children being free in cars. It's natural custodyism of the worst sort, I'd be happy to admit it. I'm willing to take this case back to the history age, but not just 100 years back in time if that's what it takes. That's what happened. A senator before the day - to - day end will go out and plan to have a good day, but it will end badly. In a Danish study from 2017, it is observed that those who drink most in Denmark, i.e. Most, worst, are college citizens aged 65 plus. There's not a lot of rowing under bridges in Copenhagen, for sure. But I wanted to ask. A senator one because he's a police officer living a lifetime. There was talk of proper bruising here, i.e. this change in alcohol consumption, which has been induced by beer law and by the increased bioavailability known to us. Has this so - called new drinking culture had a beneficial effect on human weakness? Is it less about assault, less about domestic violence? Are there less cases of serious assault? Is it any less broken houses? Is it any less a burglary after the so - called drink of moderation became available here in Iceland 20 years ago plus?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u86	Mr. President. Thank you for the question. I can teach you why. I have thought, " I'm never going to drink alcohol again. ' How can people become like that? My neighbors, who had a straight tie when they went out, crawled down the street. To be honest, I can hardly remember seeing an unwieldy man in a fight in downtown Reykjavík. I also don't remember meeting an Icelandic man breaking in without alcohol or drugs. This we know is a fact. This bill, as the senator sees it, is about exalting a drinking culture as a beautiful food culture. There are middle-aged men in Iceland who drink most. That's what numbers from Vogi tell us. Young people who are on drugs even have no alcohol, but when we're talking about alcohol, we're talking about men between 30 and 50 who drink most of their drinks and hide them behind them that they're so cool and cooled with beef and other things, and then, as I say, often helpless, even in front of the General House, lying in the street.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u87	V.E.G. President. That is exactly what I noticed in a sermon. A senator's concern is that he's the same as I am because his bill has been holding alcohol to Hagah, i.e. Hagah's shopping chain, and being given this bill into the teaspoons, i.e. That it's not big market, it's such a cute little camp. As we know, Hagar does not run a cute little camp, has never done, and probably won't. I wondered, " Is it perhaps the purpose of the bill that a personal friendship with suffering, that people's suffering become a fraud? ' I'd like to hear what you're thinking. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u88	Mr. President. You're right. A senator noticed, this is the first thing I thought about when I read the bill, that it was being given in teaspoons by saying: ATVR isn't supposed to go public, but someone else needs to sell alcohol. These shops are not large, shopping chains. There's no big camp in the Umber camp, but it's a store chain. I think the alcohol will be at such stores. It says in the bill that alcohol may be sold until the clock. 22 at night. Is it not fitting for this clock camp to keep alcohol on chairs as long as possible? I don't know what they're going to do, spread a tent over or something like that. I'd like to mention one thing. By having alcohol at such special stores, I even think that youths may become addicted to drinking alcohol.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-06-76.u89	The President has received the following program proposals and the following letters: ▪ The subscriber makes a suggestion, with reference to 1st mgr. 77st. Conventional proposals that the next meeting will be held as follows: 1st Unprepared queries. 2. Special discussions: The economic situation of Icelandic children To the Ministry of Social Affairs and Child Services. 3. Lux and trout fishing (sel fishing), 645th case, Sea Scourge and Agriculture Minister legislation. - 1st discussion. 4. Product laws (revision of the agreement on the working conditions of sheep farming and prices fees), 646. case, Sea Scourge and Agriculture Ministers Act. - 1st discussion. 5. Practical development measures high-rate communications networks, 639th case, transportation and local government legislation. - 1st discussion. 6th Navigating protection (day fines, stowaways, etc.)), 642th matter, the legal bill of transportation and unit management. - 1st discussion. 7. Nursing committees in the field of consumers, 649th case, law-oriented travel, industrial and innovation ministers. - 1st discussion. Signed wishes that this proposal be in accordance with the quoted articles of engagement would be given votes at the General Assembly. Under this letter, Jón Þór Ólafsson writes. This proposal will be presented at the beginning of the next meeting.
