ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u1	Borist has a letter from the 7th. We're out of Suðvest. "The Þorgerður of K.. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, that she'll be absent at the next official level. So today, at the General Assembly as a deputy for her 2nd Specialist to the Presidency Art of the District, Ásbjörn Ásbjörn Óskarsson, but the 1st Keeper of the Arts has announced a pasturage. A letter has also been received from a member of the High Priest's Party that Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson, a deputy of the List of the Church of the North-End-Curdered Council, takes up today as a deputy guardian for Þórunn Egilsdóttir, and gives up the 2nd vices of the leading party in the district's Hjálmar Hafliðason Agvison, a member of the council, who has been able to continue to sit here any time in the past few days. These members have previously taken their place in the General Assembly and are welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u2	Today, on Monday, November 18, under a list of names of over 180,000 European citizens, the collection of signatures was initiated by the Patagonia and WeMove Association. Thus, it is directed to the government and members of the Parliaments of Iceland, Norway, Scotland, and Ireland to take action to stop the destruction of wild salmon strains. The president thanked the above members for this initiative, and made it clear that he would bring this information to the attention of the relevant parties at a meeting as well as to the attention of the relevant parties, i.e. Council talks and council members, on the case. The business has been presented in a reading hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u3	The President considers an agreement that, if necessary, a meeting can be held for longer than the Senate dictates, i.e. until the discussion of the program is complete. However, a meeting will not last until the end of the week. 22 In any case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u4	Borist has a letter from the financial and economic secretary asking for every appointment to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 231 on carbon tax and the cost of carbon emissions, from Birgir's Þórarinsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u5	To answer, Prime Minister, Economic and Economic Ministers, Transport and Regional Ministers, Health Ministers, Tourism, Industrial and Economic Ministers and Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u6	Mr. President. Last week was the highest. The secretary of the budget has come to our head members of the government and has accused some of destroying Iceland's reputation with references to the Samherja papers. At the same time, there is a recommendation of the highest magnitude. The secretary of finance himself regarding the alleged bribe pay in Namibia, which he dropped in a news interview, by permission of the president: ▪ Of course, the problem may be the root of this particular matter, a weak system of control, and a corrupt control system in the country. It seems that it is some kind of root cause of all the things we are seeing. This attitude has, naturally, captured the attention of the world's press and even the rest of the world's population. will be discussed in the extensive magazine The Guardian, which quotes this from the highest. Secretary of finance, Bjarni Benediktsson's son, president of the Independence Party, on his website. I wish to hear the highest response. To the view that the alleged bribe is primarily to the Namibians themselves, the prime minister is to blame.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u7	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u8	She agrees with the highest degree. Secretary of finance? Does not the prime minister worry that a minister of her government will manifest himself to the world around him? Does this reflect the attitude of the government? If the highest. The prime minister does not agree with the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance, does it not worry that such comments about the poverty of a developing world that is trying to get up out of poverty can seriously damage Iceland's reputation? What will the government do to counteract the reputation risk that has already occurred? What will be the political response, and what will the prime minister do?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u9	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I think it's important that I reiterate what was presented in my case last week, i.e. that the issues and paintings they mentioned in these episodes last week are striking. In the case of payoffs, they are as illegal in Namibia as in Iceland. This applies to international law, and we've actually, as I came to my case last week, a huge amount of punishment on payoffs here in Iceland, and we did that last year. That was in the time of that government. But it is so, as I also said then, that if the matter is growing as it seems to be, it reminds a man of the unpleasant behavior of an old colony who is making use of a weakness in a government system for profit. It's shocking to see such a march. I also told them and reiterate it here that we make the requirement for Icelandic enterprises that they follow the law, whether in Iceland or where they work. This is the right thing to do. There's an investigation. It needs to be investigated as quickly as possible, but I think that investigation will take time, it will require cooperation between different countries because it reaches out to different countries. Our institutions will cooperate with their local sisters, and the government will do everything in their power to support them in carrying out the study as best they can. What, though, will prime minister do? That's the question of why. Senator. As soon as Friday's government meeting was presented with further action to tighten tax control and at a government meeting tomorrow, we will also review what can be done in order to do even more so that we will not see such a thing repeated, although, of course, it is always hard to prevent it if someone is determined to break the law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u10	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answer. I did not necessarily need to hear her view of this behavior. I trusted her to condemn her completely. I am asking, though, " Can I get answers - and clear answers - of a statement at the highest level? ' Secretary of finance. Today, ministers must be left out in a world as government attitudes. Very much. Do the prime minister wonder and apologize for these comments, making it crystal finished in the eyes of the world that this is not a statement that is in harmony with Iceland's or Icelandic government policy?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u11	Mr. President. The one here has spoken as clearly as possible. Icelandic and Icelandic companies are required to abide by the law. The government will not tolerate corporate violations. It is correct, and there is no tolerance on the part of the Icelandic government to illegalities, whether it violates the law of bribes, on the law of money fraud, on tax fraud, and on tax collections. For my part it is perfectly clear, and I speak for the whole government in this matter: the law shall not be passed. Similarly, there will be reviews of the code of laws, whether there are reasons for improvement. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u12	President. In view of the highest. The prime minister has expressed full trust in the highest power. I would like to discuss a proper sea chief and a means to strengthen my confidence in politics. Here I tore up an important report by the Prime Minister on the promotion of political trust in my unprepared inquiry at the highest level. A sea chief minister last week, but we have a review by permission of a president: ▪ It is important to realize, however, that a person's appearance is of utmost importance when it comes to possible conflicting interests. The question, then, is not how much a person trusts himself but how he or she feels toward others. I'm aware of the highest possible answers. Secretary of the sea that he disagrees with the results of the report that the appearance of the public is all relevant to possible conflicting interests. President. A key factor in the opinion of the officials of his own right is how the ties and other interests of the official in making decisions work. Thus, the appearance of contact with citizens is important, not how a minister feels about his own ability to make neutral decisions. V.E.G. The prime minister must agree with this conclusion of his own report. Now we know that the highest. A sea chief minister made it his first task to call the head of the Samherja, his childhood friend and former colleague after he received questions from the media about the questionable practice of the company and asked them. how the Samherji and the Thord responded to the impending media coverage. This was described by a minister himself in an interview in Castlight a few days ago, and it was only natural that he, as a sea chief minister, would intervene in this way, but at the same time asked the highest standard. Þorsteinn High Priest of the Sea, Már he feel as his friends always do. Well, let's not forget that this is the same minister who has said he was going to report all the issues associated with the U.S. Army. In view of all of this and with reference to an important aspect of political trust, I ask the highest. Prime Minister, what message does she feel is the highest? Secretary of the sea has sent out to the community by this phone call. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u13	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. First, I'd like to say what. A senator referred to a report I had to work on growing trust in Icelandic politics and government. Some have come out of that work, now my last bill on protecting the informants who were recommended at the council last week and on government consultation today my bill of defenses against political conflict. I hope that they will later be released from the government and will be granted a release at the council because one of the points mentioned in this report was the importance of keeping a record of the so - called stakes and explaining government relations with interests in terms of their influence on government decisions. So these matters are in the process and all I can see is that all the suggestions presented in this report will be completed before this election period is completed. In particular, that's what we're talking about. A senator refers to the highest. A sea emissary declared that he will not make decisions or bring up the administrative decisions associated with an enterprise based on a friendship relationship with the former manager of the company, who has actually stepped aside as such. In this case, as in the past, qualified cases are not heard under the law's law on incompetentness, for example. Not necessarily a friend - in - law lacks perfection. [[# But what message... #]] However, ministers can measure their responsibilities and the highest. Minister has done so by making a very clear declaration that he will not come to decisions related to that company. Actually, it is not for the first time that the Ministers report their affairs because of some kind of connection that may not necessarily be legal incompetent but that is incompetent in their opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u14	President. V.E.G. The prime minister did not answer my question, just as she answered the question. paritaprevir The Logi Einarsson who came up before me. I'm sorry. I wish the minister would answer the question about what message she felt was sent to the local community by this phone call. In answer to the highest. A sea emissary to my inquiry on Thursday was arrived. to say that he had never told himself about specific matters by making a decision because of his association with the United States. There is also no other understanding of the minister's answers than that he disagrees with a report by the prime minister that the face is all about when it comes to trust in politics. He made it clear that he has never revealed himself to anyone. It is more important than the appearance of the minister himself to experience that he has the confidence of the people. The report also shows that the National Institute of Moral Values will be given the task of providing counseling to governments on moral values. Now the prime minister has expressed confidence in a sea emissary, and I ask: Did she seek counsel from the National Institute of Moralology before she did? [[The president calls.]] If not, why not? Is there an increase in political trust a real goal, or is it just an ornament?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u15	Mr. President. What was shown in the case of the highest. A seafaring minister was that extraordinary matters and decisions had not come to his table that protected this extraordinary company. As a result, he would not have told himself about decisions. He has clearly declared it. I also must point to it, as I pointed out when I expressed confidence in the highest. Minister, that I have not seen any data, in the data which have been published, indicating that the highest. A minister has had some knowledge of the conduct revealed in these records. So I want to pray. One senator wondered if it is not reasonable for us to examine the evidence and then decide accordingly. I did not seek advice from a National Institute of Pathology, however, it is available to all stewards. Everyone's got the highest. Ministers know. But my position is based on the fact that nothing is revealed in the data published last week to the highest level. Marine and agricultural ministers have had some knowledge of this. I based my mind on what I see in the evidence. [[The president calls.]] Actually, it is my general position to base my view on what is recorded.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u16	A respectable president. A team of welfare services was received along with more KPMG to evaluate their relationship with Iceland's Medical Insurance and does not seem to be unnecessary because it all seems frozen, somehow in total freezing, but what is also serious and clearly presented in the Committee's list is that much of the nursing home was thrown away by a loss. Many rural communities have financial responsibility for the loss of business and have to stand at an ongoing angle for years. The most serious point in this is that what is to be done under the budget bill is to put the case on a committee, which says that a transnational committee is to be returned in a year's time. After a year, some conclusion that we know must be made right today. Another serious issue in this case is that a year ago, on budgets, the United Nations on welfare services says that SIDA refused to pay 276 million dollars. K. a donation based on the households' budget due to an increase in nursing weight. Where is that money? Has it been paid? If so, it is good. If that money hasn't been paid yet, I'll ask if it should be done and when. It must be very strange if you can't pay this money because it's not a deal, but it's not one of Iceland's health insurance agreements to make any deals. Looks like everything's freezing out somehow. Iceland's health insurance seems to be a state of state keeping this whole system in big trouble.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u17	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. The Senate provides information, so there are 20 contracts available at any given time. All in all over 200 contracts are in force at Iceland's health insurance, so we're talking about about about about about 10% of the contracts that are available at any given time and thus have a review and a reassessment, and that must be the nature of the case, so we can't make deals that will last indefinitely, but they will open up and both parties will have the opportunity to reevaluate the situation. When it comes to contracting a nursing home, I notice it. A senator may be thinking of them specifically, there are many opportunities, and my hopes are so that contracts will be reached by the end of the year. The 276 million as a dog. A senator mentions it, and it is simply expressed in the payment of a budget that is dependent on their being paid out as part of the values of a contract. In the absence of such a contract, there is no legal way of paying out one side, as some contribution made by treaties, such as the amount of money. Such a situation is legal. There have been exciting attempts to negotiate in a way that has not been done in nursing homes, such as for the production of aging homes in Akureyri, which were written for management funds that were used before ear - marked nurses for daylight. I think such a route is in harmony with the ideologies that people can stay at home and that the service is done gradually as needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u18	A respectable president. I just have to say, these answers are really cheap. Iceland's health insurance doesn't want to go to cost prices, and there's no assessment of how much this service costs. It is known that this is a long time behind, and the agency refuses to go to cost-food. Besides that, she seems to refuse to negotiate, so she can hold this 276 million. It's amazing that this institution should continue to do what she wants and without a minister doing anything about it. V.E.G. A minister speaks of contracts, contracts with doctors for five years, was there a conversation between doctors before the contract ended? Not a word. Medical insurance with physical therapists, three years. Was there a talk to a physical therapist in order to renew his contract before his release? Not a word. It seems like there's a way of making all deals and making no new contracts and saying, "Hey, we can't pay because there's no deal. This is really weird.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u19	A respectable president. Iceland's health insurance policy has a legal obligation to negotiate the contract for health care and needs both the terms of contracts coming from the Ministry but also the terms of the contracts, as it's also the law. So it's a little deep in the years. A senator to talk about the aim of Iceland's Medical Insurance to eliminate all agreements, and such claims do not hold any opinions. They're indiscriminate, and they don't cause us to get some common view of this vital role in Iceland's Medical Insurance on Medical Services. This is a difficult task, but it must be in accordance with the contract aims that come from the Ministry but also with financial support. We have had the situation, both in the case of physical therapists and specialists, that what has gone into the agreement has not been limited. It is my job to allow these contracts to hold against the budget because financial laws are to be seen, the senator's information, also a law that we need to follow. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I don't think this is a further assignment if Congress officials take their place against Iceland's Medical Insurance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u20	Mr. President. Recently, the secretary's written answer to the request for the cost of national activation was received in preparing a cable. The answer was poor, and it showed that information laws did not apply to land activation. So I began to ask the highest question. Tourism, industrial and innovation ministers into this, because I'm not quite satisfied that the Council is not able to get answers to any of the questions we would like to ask a company that is in public interest. In short, the first review of information books, No. 140/2012, find a set of regulations that will give land induction annulled by that law. I gave myself the other day, in the talk at the top. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers, to point out another case 2 st. An information song that says, by permission of the President: ▪ This law will take up all the work of the law, which is 51% part or more owned by the government. V.E.G. The traveller, industrial and innovation minister said in his reply to this request, by permission of the president: ▪ In that case. A member of the Sanhedrin mentioned here was the Ministry of Presidency to Evaluate the Exception. Now I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Is it so that at some point the Ministry of Presidency gave Landicization a release from information laws and then, in the strength of what, and by quoting what law? I'd like to ask the prime minister about this. I'd also like to ask her how she feels about the information rights that are more than part of the government's possession of questions coming from the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u21	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for bringing this up. Enlightenment assumes that the prime minister at each time can provide access to information laws, including the review of specific professionals. The U.S. Contestant. Nationalization has been such an exception. That's the highest. In 2013, the prime minister gave such an exception and renewed it in 2016, and it was renewed recently by the present 2019, due to the competitiveness of what the Contestant Commission considered, as mentioned in the last review of the Ministry of Presidency, that there is still evidence that nationalization could enjoy an extension of information law given under 2 mg. Section 3. Enlightenment. As I mentioned earlier, in June 2013 and again in June 2016, there are compelling reasons, mainly to believe that land activation is not the only commercial company, but is on the market that is in part at competition with both private and other companies. On the other hand, I completely understand the views that appear at the moment. A senator, i.e. There may be evidence to suggest that certain companies at the market owned by the government that 51% or more are the exception of information laws, but how can the Council fulfill their obligation to monitor them? These companies have governments that have some part of their role and, as we know, have been in line with groups at the General Assembly on how they are organized. I think there's a good reason to have a conversation with you. A senator on how we can then ensure that members of the Parliament, or members of the Council, are unique, committees, such as the Council. A board of directors and monitoring committee can investigate issues that are, however, generally, under this exception.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u22	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for bringing this to light, i.e. These don't-don't-know-what. But I'm not entirely convinced what it is, e.g. in the request asked, which involved the cost of land activation by preparing sea cables. I can't see better than that the response of national activations suggested that the company has been in conversation or negotiations with the unscheduled party to put a sea cable here. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister how she likes that a government company is either making a deal or working on a contract on that subject. Now I don't know if PGE or anyone else has any idea of laying a cable so I can't quite imagine where the competitiveness is in this inquiry. I want to pray to the highest. Prime Minister to shed only light on it for me if it can.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u23	Mr. President. I believe this is a general application of land induction, as it is in our legal environment operating in a competitive market, no matter what we think of it. The electricity market is a competitive market, so the addition really applies to the activities of Landing. Hv. A senator asks what he was doing and if he does not need to be informed. I think fairly clear that the country's activation has probably only worked under the authority given it in the time of the government, which was 2013-2016 at the time of the Supreme Court. Along with the British government, the prime minister began an exploratory discussion about the repairing of a cable here. I believe the current government has made it very clear that now there is no such thing on the drawing table. Based on this clear statement at the time, the survey of national activation has been directly followed. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u24	Mr. President. It is a shock to the United States and, in fact, to an Icelandic industry. Public trust in this important business has been deeply discouraged. It must be a priority for the Icelandic government to do what is within their power to restore confidence in the article again, a business that is entitled to the common resource of the entire country. There are a number of factors to consider, but two stand out in my opinion. First of all, the price paid by the fishing plant for the premature use of this country's valuable and shared resource has been debated and debated for many years. It debates whether the fishing costs laid in Icelandic waters reflect the great value of the non - time fishing rights of the Icelandic article. Clearly, fishing is one of the most profitable sectors in the country, so it is reasonable to ask whether the 5 billion that the article is expected to pay in the fishing costs next year ensures the natural share in the use of the resource. Documents of the Samherjam include: see that the company was prepared to pay a much higher price for access to Nazi fishing grounds than does the fishing fees laid on the seaside in this country. In view of the next year's expected fishing costs, it is estimated that the article will pay about 13 cents. a kilometer for premature rights, but the UN data show that the company was willing to pay nearly twice the price of renting to one year. The European Surgeon Advisory Association has repeatedly suggested that the ground's high - level fishing costs are going very close to the industry, and under that viewpoint have been taken on the basis of a number of reputable politicians, yet one of the largest marine resources in the country seems to be prepared to pay a much higher price for such fishing rights elsewhere outside Icelandic jurisdiction. It is, therefore, only natural to ask the highest question. Prime Minister whether they consider this information to strengthen the public's confidence that the nation has a fair share in the use of this common resource.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u25	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. First, what he learned in his introduction, which is a trust in Icelandic employment in general. I think this case can certainly affect Icelandic employment and all Icelandic exports, but not just this one company and its reputation. So I'd like to say that we've been working very hard to review information laws and extra transparency. I mentioned before the bill of conflicting interests in the administration. But when it comes to employment, do we not need to wonder what we can do better? One of the things that have been discussed there, and I've talked to a tourist, industrial and innovation minister, is to review particularly when companies are over a certain size but are still not registered in the stock market, whether it is not normal to make rich demands for companies of a particular size, so that they deliver information quarterly like registered companies in the stock market so that a certain transparency is ensured. On it was even In a report by the World Cash Fund following the fall of WOW air and the travel, industrial, and innovation minister, it presents a case in its Constitution where changes are made. Because this is the interests of Icelandic employment, I have to say, it's to be viewed as an application that there's a great deal of transparency and a clear rule. It should be viewed, not as a burden, but as an instrument. For the fishing fees such as this changed the current government in such a way that they will produce more for the year than the old system that already existed. A senator was in the government here. They bring in quite more government funds than that system would have done, and they're supposed to be the rest of which I believe are normal variables when there's no particular price for hunting. However, I don't think that this discussion has ended with that law at the time, although I consider these laws to be significantly better than those in force for the recovery process. However, a discussion of the natural share of the nation's use of resources is not complete.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u26	Mr. President. The explanation of this government that the change in law has led to an increase in hunting costs has grown overwhelming. This is primarily because the reference year was changed, and in 2017, it was no longer laid down as a basis for a devastating event in the fishing grounds, with the related damage to goods. It has nothing to do with systemal change in hunting costs, a second reference year was simply laid down. The simple, clear fact that one of the largest fishing companies in the country seems to be willing to pay double the sum it pays in the country's hunting fees per kilogram for its innovation in Namibia, which is very limited in time, cannot increase the confidence in the fact that there is a reasonable share in the use of resource resources. So I ask the highest. Prime Minister again: Is she willing to agree that this information is designed to increase the confidence that the nation has a reasonable share in the use of this valuable resource? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u27	Mr. President. I believe the General can do a lot of things to increase the nation's confidence that they will enjoy a fair share of the use of resources. For one thing, I have given it a lot of emphasis on the fact that the General Assembly is meeting for a resource directive in a constitution. I think the people, if we can talk about the nation, at least A very large part of it, if I agree on the need for it. I'd like to mention it as the first and most important step we've been discussing here for more than 20 years, and not agreeing on it, and if this council could come together to set up the rules of national possession of resources in a constitution, I think there could be a great deal to be won. I think we'll then have a conversation about how high the rate of hunting should be or whether to use a different methodology, as I suspect it would be. A senator counts. That will be a political debate. To highlight this right of the nation to its common resource, which, unfortunately, seems to still be controversial with someone, I think is the most important step that the Council could take during the season to stress that the nation is to receive a fair share of the use of resources. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u28	A respectable president. In an interview that appeared on the visibility of November 13th. said the highest. The secretary of the transportation and unit, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, asked if he believed that Samherji was involved with payoffs in Iceland, by permission of President: ▪ I think that's a far - fetched thought. That statement, the highest. Ministers have reviewed another of the most famous statements. Secretary of 2016, at least some undisclosed Internet dwellers, for now the discarded reaction of former professional minister and current toplevel. Transport and Regional Ministers to Panamas, between members of the community. This is the highest position. Minister to the national minister of his own government that it is, by permission of the President, obviously quite a bit complicated to have money in Iceland. But that may be another matter, Mr. President. I want to talk to the highest. Minister, not exactly on bribes, but on stake ties, the appearance and the practice that now appears to the public on the part of the government of Iceland, following the Samera case. In view of the highest. A minister has met a situation comparable to that of the current Supreme Court. Seafood and agricultural ministers not long ago, I'd like to ask the highest level of question. Minister of the same questions as the highest. The prime minister of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, did not get a comment in an unprepared inquiry. paritaprevir Halldóra, Mogensen. Just a minute ago. We know it's the highest. A sea manager made his first task of calling the director of the Samherja, his childhood friend and former colleague after he received questions from the media about the questionable practice of the company -- this is at least one question. a week before the public receives this information - and ask the chairman of Samherja how they intend to handle the impending media coverage. I'm asking the highest. Minister: What message does he feel is the highest? Secretary of the sea has been sending out to the community by this phone call?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for taking up this matter with me as a former sea chief. I thank her very much for reviewing the unfortunate comments I made on the steps and then living with. I hope so. A senator had never had to let something slip out of him and then live forever. That's just life. I've noticed in this discussion that we're a little concerned about interests. It's good, we should constantly wonder how free we are to think and speak, and that we senators and ministers can make decisions without having an abnormal relationship with each other. In such a small country, however, there are bound to be quite many of us. We're connected with family or friends, we're schoolmates and something like that, and such matters can become more complex to us. I have noticed in larger lands that even count a thousand times the population in this country that it does not seem to find people in the position of presidents that are different from married couples, fathers, or so. In the northern countries we compare ourselves with, it is quite unusual that such family ties are involved. About that question as a question. A senator throws up here, and I'm supposed to start evaluating it, I can say: I have my share to evaluate this question every day. I guess. A senator needs to do the same. Exactly the same is true in order to form a representative of the North countries, which we would like to compare with, though still more large. Our situation here at home can become more complex, since we are so few and much connected to one another than it does. To begin with, we need to ask ourselves this question at any given time. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. The minister of the sea has done so and has answered for his share. He needs to have a proper view of himself, just as we should. A senator needs to appreciate us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u30	A respectable president. I wasn't asking the highest. Ministers how he feels about interest in general, how he feels in other countries, or about anything else as high as possible. Just then, a minister was saying in a speaker's chair. I asked the highest. Minister, just as a member of Congress at Porta asked the highest. Prime Minister, one question that has not yet been answered: What message does the highest text send? Secretary of the seas to the community by this phone call? What kind of message is the highest. Minister, he looks objectively at it and evaluates that it is being sent out to the community at the highest level. A seafarver calls his friend Þorsteinn on Már before this coverage is published and asks how he will react to media coverage? What message does this message send to people with this media coverage? What message does it send to those who expect any reaction from the government that the first response to a seafaring minister is to call Felstein Þorsteinn? What kind of message does this send out to society? I had another question, but it's just not working out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u31	A respectable president. In case of a moment. A senator wants to know what I think about this or the other question. A senator also listens to it when I'm explaining to her, and at the same time, all of the Congress that every day, we need to be involved in such activities, whether we're elected agents as members of the council, members of the council, much less the ministers as part of the Commission, to appreciate our own qualifications. In a government directive in Iceland, we need to evaluate it ourselves. [[Up front.]] V.E.G. A seafaring minister considered himself appropriate. He is the one who will answer for it. I don't have to answer what I think, he's explained it. [[Up front.]] He's explained it, hasn't he? A senator, if you will listen, to you, I think, or whether it was before the reason. Mogensen Mr. President, I'm sorry that I didn't speak to the highest degree. The fact that this is about our being here every four years, at least for four years, and there we are judged by our actions. [[The president calls.]] Every day, however, we personally need to judge our abilities and potential inadequacies.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u32	President. I thank the President for that, and I'm asking him. The president may not be a reason to have a special discussion at the Convention on Landing and how this company is being controlled, especially after it has just arrived at the highest level. The prime minister seems to consider this to be part of the investments of land activation as part of his work as prime minister. True, this may be at the height. A minister mentioned this to make some way to the highest level of old bullshit. Secretary of state has something to do with sea cables, but it's just gonna come out. I count at least Time, especially in the light of this attitude. Prime Minister, that at the council, we discuss the management process, and of course, it is long time for the council to get the answers to an investment project. paritaprevir Sæmundsson has repeatedly asked about, with regard to the high core interest in the country and no reason to use the authority to exclude Landactivation from responding in accordance with information law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u33	Regarding specific discussions, the president would just like to inform us that such discussions are usually dealt well with in most cases, i.e. when a formal request has been received. Then it will be up to you to see if any ministers can be answered, etc. and has gone quite well this fall to meet the senator's wishes for such things.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u34	A respectable president. In view of the talk ahead of me, I just want to arouse an old idea that has developed from time to time with a respectable president and that is extending the years of the council. It is obvious that the members of Parliament sometimes have something to offer here in a torture suit that they do not involve in the issues under discussion at any given time, and they are likely to start using this team to promote their affairs. While this may not be a good idea, I understand the tendency and the need to express myself beyond what is planned at any given time. I'd like to leave the suggestion with a respectable president that we'd be spending more time in the Senate, that we'd get more talks and more often, preferably every day, but of course I know that there are limits in the day for decent presidents and senators like everyone else.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u35	Regarding the past action of the council, an attempt was made last year to negotiate with members of a body of Congress to facilitate some of the rights to discuss the activities of the council each week, e.g. by extending the time on the second day of the week, but the experiment led to a lack of agreement on the length and length of the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u36	Mr. President. In the beginning of my speech, I'd like to review in very short terms the bill of a change in state accountant's law and a review of state accounts most relevant. It says here in the report, with permission from the President: It includes sharpening the timing of the legislation on accountants and reviews adopted by the last legislation committee. The bill eliminates uncertainty as to whether the obligation of accountants to conduct a review to an accountant and under the signs of legislation will be implemented to employees of the National Reexamination. So it sums up what the bill is about. It also says in the report, and I think it can be mentioned also, by permission of the president: No. 94/2019 is required to review to the reviews of authorised employment agencies that are fired by independent partners. There have been skeptics of reviews and reviews that work for the office can re-evaluate the annual accounts of its members and partners in which the State owns half or more, as per B and c joints 1 mg. Section 4. track No. 46/2016, different from a member of the United Kingdom Accounting Association or a joint shrimp worker. The bill aims to eliminate such uncertainty and leave no doubt that a government accountant can enforce his legal duties without doing so in a particular partner. This is what I would like to perform before reviewing the commission now given by a board of administration and monitoring committee. I'd like to review this committee opinion, with the permission of the President, as it comes. It says: The question has been discussed, and it has been arranged for a meeting of Skúli Eggert Þórðarson and Guðrún Jenný Jónsdóttir from the National Reconnaissance and Þórhallur Vilhjálmsson and Laufey HundundGuðmundsdóttir Guððððððundundsdótir from the Alðis office. The committee received reviews from the Department of Review and Government Accounting. With an approved law on accountants and reviews, No. The change in the review was made in 94/2019, only through the revisions required by the accountants to establish a partner. As a result, it was considered whether accountants working for the National Reconclusion could conduct revised jobs, except through a society that would be run by a Government Accounting or by those who would be employed. The bill points to making it absolutely clear that a government accountant can carry out his legal duties without having to do so in a special partner. According to the Commission's review, it was found that reviewers who work for State Review have an obligation to operate in a formal quality system, such as 1 mgr. 18th par. Law on accountants and reviews. Based on the rules of the bill, perhaps there is a reason to give specific consideration to the quality of the Kingdom accountant's work, but in the 3rd issue of Article 1. 18th par. The law says that the management of an accountant is responsible for the quality system. In view of the Committee, it is not necessary to specifically recommend who is responsible for the quality systems of the State accountant's decision, but it is in the hands of a government accountant to guarantee the quality systems by which the Government Accounting Office operates, in line with the laws on the head of an accountant and a review of state accounts. The Commission suggests that the bill will be passed on as a matter of fact. That committee party is standing, plus here, okay? Councilmen of Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir, chairman of the Committee, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Brabbur Níelsson's son, Hjálmar Bogi, Adverick's Hafliðason, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Kolbeinn Otcarsson Proppé, Óli Björn Kárason, and Pétursson Ingi. It is my hope that the council will agree with this unanimous opinion of the entire administration and monitoring committee and that the matter will be resolved quickly and clearly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u37	Mr. President. I explain to the Commission's Commission's Committee and Observation Committee the proposal to conspire the publication of the Supreme Court and the documents of the Supreme Court for the anniversary of the Supreme Court. As noted, in the coming year of the Supreme Court, 2020, the Parliament's president was asked to cooperate with the National Library of Iceland and Iceland's History Association on the publication of the Court of Justice and Documents in Iceland and that the General of the Council would provide financial support for this edition by 10 million. K. each year for the next ten years. The case was well reviewed by a board of administrations and monitoring committees. There was a few discussions about the subject, but the conclusion of the committee, after the visits and discussions of the Committee, is that the proposal will be agreed. The nominee from a management and surveillance committee is otherwise silent, with permission of the Supreme Court. President: ▪ The journal has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Þórhallur Vilhjálmsson and Lauf Laufey, Helga Guðmundsdóttir, from the Office of the General Assembly. The committee received reviews from Iceland's National Library of the National Library of the University of Iceland and National Archives. According to the National Archives of Iceland, a version of the Court's judgments and documents is an important step in making the rights of the Court more accessible to its court. The documents of the Supreme Court contain not only details of the national legal history but also of the history of the country and of the nation where the Court's judgments reflect the attitude and state of the land for many years. The Commission agrees with this view, and it seems appropriate to the Council that Iceland's Supreme Court of the Age remembers an anniversary in view of the role the General has played in the history of the country's courts. The publication of the Court's judges and documents in Iceland will facilitate research on the history of the country, and the availability of such materials is unequivocal. The review of Iceland's National Library of University suggests that instead of publishing the judgments and documents of the United States Supreme Court in print, a database and a website that is open to all are proposed. By doing so, the public and investigators can readily approach the material, search it, read and print out if necessary. The Commission agrees that the Supreme Court's judgment and documents should also be stored in an electronic computer-locking database that will be handled and available to all. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. Those who follow this motion, along with the one who stands here, have a why. Councilmen of Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir, chairman of the Board of Command and Control, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Brabbur Níelsson, Hjálmar Bogi Cycer's Hafliðason, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Ottar son of Proppé, Óli Kárason Kásson, and Pétursson Ingi.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u38	A respectable president. I'm here to recommend a committee party. Subject Committee for matter No. 187 here. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by ordinary members of the Ministry of State. This synonym has been requested by the Generals to confirm the decision of the joint EEA from March 2019 of the review of an Annex to the EEA Convention and the Change of IX. The Annex of the EEA Convention. This addition is about financial services. The following four types of the European Union will be broken into pieces: 1st The Council and Council No. 600/2014 from 2014 on the market for financial initiatives. This Regulation also changes EU Regulation from 2012 to the year 2012. 2. The EU Regulation shall be agreed in June 2016 regarding the change in Regulation from 2014 to the market for financing and regulations from 2014 on the market for marketing fraud and Regulation from 2014 on the improved stocks in the European Union and its stock markets. 3. The European Parliament and Council Directive from 2014 is launched on the market for financing, as well as on changing the 2002 Directive and the 2011 Directive. 4. The Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council shall be incorporated from 2014 on the change of the market directive for financing. The Commission wants to state that the proposal's presentation is considered by the Committee to be in accordance with Article 7. Regulations on how to treat the European Union and therefore suggest that the proposal be agreed. Under this committee's opinion of publications, as well as what appears here, puk. Councilmen Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Trausti Trari Guðmundsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Silja Dögg Dög Gunnarsdóttir and Smári Mccarthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u39	A respectable president. I'm here to recommend a committee party. Subject Committee for matter No. 188 which is currently in progress and is a proposal for a resolution on the confirmation of the joint EEA decision on the change of IX. The addition of the EEA Convention, which deals with financial services, as well as XIX. An appendix on consumer protection. The Commission has arranged for a meeting of traditional members of the State Department to discuss the matter, but with the Parliament's resolution proposal, it is being proposed to submit to the changes in these financial services and consumer protections and to enter the Convention of the Council and Council of the Council since 2016, which deals with indicators used as financial and financial agreements or to measure the success of investment funds. At the same time, this Regulation alters the Regulation from 2008 and 2014 as well as the 2014 State Regulation. The presentation of this proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Regulations on how to treat the European Union and suggest that the Commission agree with the proposal. Under this committee's opinion of publications, as well as what appears here, puk. Councilmen Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Trausti Trari Guðmundsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Silja Dögg Dög Gunnarsdóttir and Smári Mccarthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u40	A respectable president. I would like to recommend the Committee on State Affairs in case of No. 189, which's out here. The Commission has discussed the situation and has been contacted by members of the State Department of State as well as by the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs. This proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the determination of the joint EEA committee from March 29, this year, for a change in IX. The addition of the EEA Convention, which is the addition of financial services, and also the addition of the following three types: First of all, the EU Regulation from 2013 on the precautionary requirements so-called for loan agencies and stock markets as well as the review of EU Regulation from 2012 onward. Second, it is suggested that the EU Regulation from 2017 is included in the Convention on the Change of Commission Regulation, previously incorporated in 2013, in order to reduce the impact of the individual capital for the implementation of IFRS status 9 and for the handling of the specific hazard bindings of the official Member States to the Member State's home bill as a major hazard complex. Third, the Council and the 2013 Council's Directive are being submitted on the access to the quality of the loan organisations and the financial security monitoring of loans and investment companies, as well as the conversion of the 2002 Directive and the folding of two directives from 2006. This has been reviewed by the State Department, and the proposal's presentation is considered by the Committee to be in accordance with Article 7. The Conventional Treatments of the EEA and therefore the Commission proposes that the proposal be adopted. Under this committee's opinion of publications, as well as what appears here, puk. Councilmen Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Trausti Trari Guðmundsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Silja Dögg Dög Gunnarsdóttir and Smári Mccarthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u41	A respectable president. I'm here to recommend a committee party. Subject Committee for matter No. 270, a plagion deduction proposal for confirmation of the decision of the joint EEA Committee on the Change of II. The Annex of the EEA Convention, the addition involved in technical regulations, standards, testing and certification, as well as the change in IV. The addition of the EEA Convention is about a energy policy. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Gautur Sturluson from the Ministry of State and Margrét's Ósk Óskarsdóttir from Clinic. This proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the determination of the joint EEA committee from March of this year for a change in II. Annex IV. Annexes, as mentioned at the outset, as well as on the authority to enter the Treaty of the European Parliament's Regulation from 2017 on the sentence of a set of energy markings and the breakdown of EU Directive from 2010. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. So the committee suggests that the proposal will be accepted. Under this committee's opinion of literature, along with what is being said here, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir and Smári Mccarthy. Other committees why. The Foreign Affairs Committee was away from the hearing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u42	A respectable president. I'd like to recommend a committee party. The Foreign Affairs Committee for a proposal for a resolution on the confirmation of the European Commission decision on the change of II. The addition of the Convention, which deals with technical regulations, standards, testing and certification, and IV. The addition of the deal on energy issues. The Commission has discussed the matter and was contacted by Gautur Sturluson from the State Department and Sigurbjörg Sæmundsdóttir from the Environment and Resource Ministry. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission from March 29 of this year for a change in II. Annex IV. The addition of the EEA Convention, and at the same time a request to enter the EU Directive from 9 September 2015, for the conversion of the 1998 Directive on the quality of gasoline and diesel fuels and for the change in the 2009 Directive to increase energy use from renewable sources and for change and subsequent decline in Directives from 2001 to 2003. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. In this hall, there will probably be legal bills available from relevant advisers awaiting such material coverage. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. Under the committee's opinion of literature, as well as the above, p. Councilmen Trausti Tragri Guðmundsson, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Silja Dögg Dög Gunnarsdóttir and Smári Mccarthy. Other committees why. The foreign business committee was away at the decommissionment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u43	A respectable president. I'm here to recommend a committee party. The Foreign Affairs Committee for a proposal to conspire on confirmation of the decision made by the Joint EEA on the Change of XVII. The annex to the EEA Convention, which is the Annex on the Management Board. The committee discussed the matter and visited Gautur Sturluson from the Ministry of State and Daði Ólafsson from the Department of Employment and Development. This proposal provides a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the determination of the joint EEA committee which I mentioned above for the change in the initial additions I had within the EU Directive since 2016 for the protection of confidential information about expertise and trade against illegal development, use and publication. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Regulations on how to treat the European Union and suggest that the Commission agree with the proposal. In addition to what is said here, publications under the committee's opinion. Councilmen Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Trausti Trari Guðmundsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Silja Dögg Dög Gunnarsdóttir and Smári Mccarthy. The nominee Logi Einar Einarsson was absent from the case, but he writes under the authority of the regulations for the Council of the Council. Other committees were absent from the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u44	A respectable president. I'd like to recommend a committee party. Subject Committee for matter No. 273 As regards the proposal for interpretation of the confirmatory decision of the joint EEC for a change in IX. The addition of the EEA Convention, financial services and XIX. An appendix on consumer protection. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Gautur Sturluson by the State Department and Guðmundur Kári Kárason from the Ministry of Economics and Economics. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the Commission decision of the joint Commission and also the implementation of the European Commission Directive on February 4, 2014, i.e. Directive No. 2014/17, on loan agreements for consumers in the context of housing, and on the change of EU Directives from 2008 and 2013 and Regulation from 2010. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Regulations on how to treat the European Union and suggest that the Commission agree with the proposal. Under this committee's opinion of publications, as well as what appears here, puk. Congressmans of Smári Mccarthy, Trausti Tragi Guðmundsson, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson and Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir. Other members of the State Department were absent from the hearing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u45	A respectable president. I'd like to recommend a committee party. The Foreign Directorial Commission for a proposal for the resolution of the Council of Parliament to confirm the decision of the joint EEA from September I. An Annex to the EEA Convention, which deals with the health of animals and plants, as well as the change in II. The Annex of the Convention on technical regulations, standards, testing and certification. At the same time, request permission to enter the EU Regulation from 2017, No. 2017/625, on official monitoring and other public activities aimed at ensuring that the European Parliament's regulations on food and food and the health and health and health of animals, plant health and plant protection products are applied and for changing the regulations of the European Parliament listed in a panel of committees. 485. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Regulations on how to treat the European Union and suggest that it be approved. Under the committee, in addition to what we read, Silja Dögg Dög Gunnarsdóttir, Trausti Trali Guðmundsson, Brontí Haraldsdóttir, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, and Smári Mccarthy. Other committees why. The Foreign Affairs Committee was away from the hearing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u46	A respectable president. I'm here to recommend a committee party. The Foreign Affairs Commission for a proposal for interpretation of the total agreement on economic cooperation between the EFTA and Indonesia. The committee discussed the matter and attended the meeting of Kristinn F. Árnason and Ögmundur Hrafn Magnússon of the State Department of State. The proposal is to consult the Generals' permission to validate a vacation agreement between the EFTA and Indonesia signed in Jakarta on December 16, 2018. The proposal suggests that the contract guarantees a broad toll free market access for all major exports of Iceland. The contract also includes... Compromise, trade of services, investments, protection of mental rights, public shopping, competition, trade, and sustainable development, as well as the standard regulations for a joint committee and the solution of issues. The report also shows that the export from Iceland to Indonesia was 175 million in 2018. It is mainly by means of marine exports. This same year's import from Indonesia accounts for a total of 1.2 billion, the main import of electronics, shoes, and clothing. Icelandic companies have also sold geologic knowledge in Indonesia. This free trade agreement must be a cause for joy among those who want to do the best of their free business, and the committee suggests that this proposal will be approved. Under the committee's opinion of publications, as well as those listed here, Smári Mccarthy, Trausti Trari Guðmundsson, Brís Haraldsdóttir, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, and Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir. Other members of the State Department were absent from the hearing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u47	A respectable president. We vote to request a state accountant's report on the assessment of the activities of the Institute of Education. The first transferer to the petition is Bogi Hafliðason, a deputy of Nautilus, while more are at the request. On October 1, 2015, the National Institute of Education began to operate. So I believe now, after four years, is a good time point for this assessment. And I'd also like to say that in 2018, it was discussed by a board of administration and surveillance that it might be wise to make this assessment, but it was my assessment that it was fully rapid. But I think now is a very good time for that with a new institution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u48	A respectable president. I always vote with my report request. I still feel that the evidence behind this request is not quite strong enough, but I would have liked to see a better reason than that it was four years from the agency. I'd also like to explain that I'm the former employee of the institution and I know a lot of things that are behind them, so I'm sitting by in this vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u49	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct property processing and IL fund debt, as it is referred to here by means of a reference to an apartment loan fund, because of the accumulated problem of the camp loan fund. The bill is written at the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs in cooperation with Social Affairs and is submitted along with a bill for the Law on Housekeeping and Civilization. In June 2018, the head of the Congregation and Equal Opportunities Department sent a letter paying attention to the problems of camp loans. Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Minister set up in September 2018 a group of personnel to offer suggestions on how to reduce the State's risk because of a cumulative problem, which was mainly due to a large increase in loans made in apartment loans. The growing difference in apartment loans had become negative, and the evidence was that the source of the fund would be negative, which could test the State guarantee of commitments of the fund. The group submitted a suggestion at the end of March 2018 that camp loans would be divided up and the part of the fund's operation that has to deal with financial management for the early loan fund would be separated from the Agency's primary work. The task force pointed out that the role of the camp loan fund had made significant changes in recent years with a change in housing law. In this way, the fund is now responsible for policies and housing research, public housing support and the providing of the social housing bar. As a replacement, a powerful housing agency would play a key role in housing, implementing and coordination for national housing practices, as well as becoming a powerful partner for the rural communities in the country, in connection with their housing plans. The government approved at its meeting on March 26, 2018, the social and child-friendly proposal for the dissociation of the Substitution Fund on the basis of the proposed task force. The bill for the Law on Housing and Mobilization Organization suggests that the operation of the Substitution Fund will be divided. The transition reflects the work factor analysis of the camp loan fund, which includes appeared in his annual account by 2018. In accordance with the decision of the Substitution Bank of accounting, the fund is divided into two tasks aimed at separating particularly the older loans and the management of other funds from the fund's activities. The fund is thus divided into Housing and Civilization Institutes, but under that sector the part of the Substitution Fund works in accordance with the role of the fund as a result of changes in housing laws from 2013, 2016 and 2018 and social loans, and the IL fund, which, under the working field, falls the part of the camp loans that is involved in the publishing of funds, so-called HFF bonds, older loans, and financial management outside of credits, such as funds and other stocks. It is suggested that one exception be made from the exchange based on the year-to-year bill of 2018's camp loans so that a host of workers will take over the tenures of an IL budget based on the worksheet, according to an explanation of 13 of the annual account of the 2018 Pentateuch, which involves the activities and property of the Breet Association. At the replacement of the Substitution of the Substitution of Camp Credits Fund, it has been based on the assumption that loans to social needs are considered to thempundation of the House and Human Development Agency, but that all other loans are considered to the IL Fund's collection of loans. The individual bar is divided on the basis of means of borrowing. The division of the apartment loan fund takes into account the size of the year in the 2020 fund. It is assumed that the year 2019 will be set up as a core budget for the IL fund. Based on January 1, 2019, the mortgage library of Hygimens and Engineers totals 138.1 billion, i.e. of less than 28% of the overall library. The IL Fund loan accounts for 361.9 billion, i.e. 72% of the overall mortgage collection. As a reward for the loan collection that comes with Homing and Human Resources Agency, IL will receive a debt slip from the Agency. The financial value of the internal bond was 125.2 billion on January 1, 2019, and is determined by the weight of functional growth determined by the income-based loan set by the House and Managing Agency. V.E.G. President. The order of events has led to the problem of the camp loan fund today. At the establishment of an apartment loan fund, his primary credit work involved exchange of individual estate loans and house bonds. The letter of the house was as taxable as any payment that could be paid would pay off on mortgages that lay behind the letter of the house. A dramatic decision was made in 2004 by the recording of the apartment letter system, which largely made the financial debt inexpensive. This operation made it possible that the fund had few opportunities to protect itself from financial payments in changing Iceland's loan environment. Increasing loans at mortgage markets, first increasing the business of banks in the market, and these past few years, with increasing loans from the pension fund, have made it possible for a large amount of money to be paid on the older loans of the fund. At the same time, the new loans of the fund have been greatly summed up, since the funds are not competitive, including, in terms of competition. due to modified loans to address the comments of the EFTA Monitoring Institute, ESA. The sea now has about a 1◯2% market share of new loans to individuals with mortgages in apartment living. In recent years, the number of apartment loans on markets has declined steadily. At the same time, the loan interest rates in camp loans have virtually been replaced, so the incentive for funding the old loans has increased and resulted in a large amount of payment. The collection of the financial resources of the Substitute Bank is thus mainly responsible for payment on the loans of the fund and the problems involved in producing the value of the funds. Some 45% of the total fund's funds have been growing in recent years. At this point, it may be estimated that the difference between the booking value and the value of property and the debt of the fund is negative at about 200 billion dollars. which, then, would have been loved for the loss of the fund if it had been made up at that point. On the one hand, the calculated loss is due to the payment of the loans of the fund and future payments and to be done on less interest than the financial debt of the fund. The market crisis has a major impact on the survival of camp loans and changes the value of possessions and debt of about 40 billion per 0.5% of crops changing. It is easy to see how much money this is, and in view of the changes that have been made in the interest of the growing environment this year, it is easy to see how much change has taken place in the estimated negative status of the fund that I have left behind. This is about 40 billion per 0.5% of crops changed. A large proportion of holdings outside the loan are registered bonds, both stocks of the state's funds and special bonds of the bank. The value of these assets takes into account the market value at any given time and fluctuations with changes in the growth stage. Similarly, the underlying debt of the fund is recorded, and their worth also takes into account the interest level at any given time. The fund's active interest rates are 4.34%, but the market crop at the end of June was 0.94◯1.08%. For example, HFF 34 had a fruit requirement at the end of June of 0.94%. If the letter was to be bought at a market, $11.9 million would be required. K. For every 100 million. K. It's a nameable unit. Further decrease in interest increases the increase in prices and thus the expectation of loss of state funds. Similarly, growth in interest of interest would reduce the conflict between the booking value and the value of the road and the risk of a government fund. Because of how much money it has already been paid, and thus the holding of an apartment loan out of a loan collection, the profit of it has far greater impact on the final loss than the rate of pay paid on the remainder of the loans. According to a basic film made by the fund, the payment of property depends on the payment of a debt until 2034, which would require further funding. This would be in addition to the 52 billion that the state fund had to be set up in 2012/2014 as a result of his problem of supporting his own wealth, which was then up to the minimum legal level. Despite the fact that the difference between the booking value and the value of property and the debt is down to 200 billion dollars. On the basis of the criteria that were true in the middle of this year, this amount of money is actually going to be the loss of the fund. According to the core picture of the fund, which is based on a set basis for payment, it is to form an estimate that the negative status will be about 140 billion dollars. The decrease in interest rate above the current interest level may be substantially reduced. In the same way, growth rate may still increase. The real conclusion will work out over a very long time and is the nature of a case difficult to assess in the way that growth and other factors will develop. This can reduce the risk because of the current situation. A respectable president. With the bill it is assumed that financial and economic secretary will take control of IL's funds, processing and payment and debt of assets to reduce the risk and costs of the state funds established because of the accumulated financial problems of the fund. A minister is authorized to appoint a special task management to advise him on the processing of property and the debt of IL, and it is also permitted to delegate specific tasks relating to the processing process. The project management is expected to be arranged for individuals with the necessary education, knowledge, and experience. The minister decides their approval. It is expected that daily business will be moderate in size and that costs will be costed by property management and debt will be paid by the income or the financial resources of the fund. The cost could, for example. Include a fee for project management, other cost of business and payment to parties, including The establishment of the host and the centre of the Agency, for the possession and management of property. About the middle of 2019 C.E., the money of the assets and debt that is expected to move to IL, on the other hand, 719 billion dollars. 714 billion dollars, however. The largest part of the fund is given out the debt of an apartment loan fund, called HFF letters. The IL stock stock can be divided into five things: loan collections, bonds published by the House and Human Resources Office to pay for social housing loans, government bonds, special bonds, and various financial resources, including deposit. It is suggested that, if the bill becomes a law, the Agency should be entrusted to other Member States of the loan collection and are expected to continue to serve in the IL Fund's credit collection, the agreement will be made with the Homing and Human Resources Institute for Enforcement of the Act of the Law. This ensures that all borrowers who have borrowed from the apartment loans will be equal in terms of both rights and services, whether their loans remain in the IL Fund or are transferred to the Homing and Mobilization Institute. To ensure an even greater equality, IL Fund is suggested to have comparable sources to the signing and application of financial problems and to a Housing and Human Resource Institute and to sue decisions made on the basis of a provision for the decision-making committee. It is also suggested that certain legal requirements be established so that the funds and other property of the fund can be set aside. Ministers are expected to set up a regulations that will require further details on the procedure including: on the risks and management of the fund, property management, monitoring and information, as well as the role of the task management. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. to end this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u50	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill on deck. 488. This is a case of No. 382. It consists of a bill to correct the change in agricultural and tax laws and the distribution of tollovates. The bill is made up at the pro-address and innovation department based on the proposed work force on review of regular work on the distribution of tollovates for agricultural products. The task force was appointed in June 2018, with representatives of the Ministry representing the Neythal Association, the National Association of Iceland, and the Association for Employment. The command's motive included: New agreements between Iceland and the European Union on agricultural trade that were signed on September 17, 2015, and on May 1, 2018, the tollovians were greatly increased. The role of the task force was to review the current arrangement and to find ways to achieve a benefit resulting from the further distribution of tollovate to consumers in the form of a lower price. The main purpose of the bill is to simplify and clarify the rules of the distribution of tollovate and to change the methodology of distribution so that the costs of tollovates will be substantially reduced by tenders. The aim is to contribute to the increase in consumers'gains and increased market competition with agricultural products but also to the interests of national manufacturers. Emphasis on the fact that order is reasonable and equal among those reaching out for customs is emphasized. They are expected to alter the actions of tollvote extraction proposed by the bill leading to an increase in confidence and security as domestic agricultural production plays a key role. The bill suggests changes in the clearance process of tollovita. When the demand for customs is greater than their oers, they are assigned by export, and the adjustment of the arrangements for such projects is proposed. The procedure proposed in the bill is basically similar to that of the past few years in the elimination of the quatane and is well known among candidates where the invitation is closed and does not vary. The fundamental change is that the lowest approved price determines the price of total topotecan. Thus, the change will include the intervention of tollovata, which has been described as a balanced signal, as detailed in the bill's report. In addition, there is evidence that there will be ongoing management in connection with the spread of tollovata electronically. In view of the changes associated with the increased import of agrienvironmental products on the basis of international agreements over the years, the bill will be presented with a change of 65.g. A. livestock-shaped so that sources of distribution of so-called open toravota will be removed in the present image. It is suggested that the annual distribution period for seasonal products will be legalized to meet the need for domestic markets. This will result in lower toll products in designated periods based on the historical distribution of the past ten years. In the case of meats, the increase in tollovians according to national treaties available will be expected to meet the need for domestic markets, with the exception of pig pages. In view of available data on import in the past year, it is estimated that in all likelihood domestic production will not be the demand for swine pages that have been rapidly increasing over the past few years. It is therefore suggested that 400 tons of tomato be distributed annually to meet domestic demand. The bill also suggests that agri-environment schemes committee will be submitted. Based on the changes planned for the distribution of tollovata, such a committee is no longer serve purpose. The Advisor Committee operates according to the 87th chapter. farming and shall be carried out by the Department on the regulations of the import and export of agricultural equipment. The role of the Committee is further defined in the law, but it is assumed to be a significant market information gathering to determine if there are conditions for the distribution of tollovate. It has been difficult, and actually impossible, for the committee to evaluate the availability and demand of individual products at a time in which information on, for example. The development of production volumes and demand is difficult to find. Thus, in most cases the committee has had to rely on the manufacturer's declarations and distribution sources, and this arrangement has become highly critical. Then, in some cases, the commission has received conflicting information that has been difficult to verify. Since then, the market situation has changed significantly, and there is considerable experience in the need for so - called open tollovium. In view of the increase in customs due to the European Union's customs contract, as well as the changes proposed in the bill, it is not a purpose for the Commission to be maintained because its main role has been to assess its market conditions when the market is reported to be lacking. Finally, a change to Article 12. Toll laws requiring legalisation of tax. The objective of this change is that the amount of toll should be determined by law on demand of 40th and 77th respectively. Constitutions. In addition, the benefits of customs are more predictable. As we have considered, the focus of the bill is primarily to a simple and clear rule of distribution of tollovata. The expected impact of these changes is increased benefit to consumers in the form of increasing products, lower prices and increased competition for the market with agricultural products. Thus, the effects of the approved bill will be considered to benefit consumers as well as immigrants and food producers, who are being affected by the spread of customs. Then, in a report above, the importance of reducing goods to consumers was discussed in the above - mentioned service group. It was noted that market surveillance may be strengthened when such changes occur, particularly with close attention to the low level and prices of daily market development to ensure public interest. The employment and innovation department is already starting a work-work project that contributes to increasing monitoring and data collection on the prices of import and domestic agriculture and is expected to start this work by the end of this year. A respectable president. I've traced this bill's main subject. Otherwise, I would like to refer to the article that follows the bill, which contains a detailed discussion of its contents. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to a 2nd. ... andwhat. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u51	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for this bill. There's a lot I'd like to ask about, but I'm going to limit myself to certain aspects of tollovita and import pig meat. Within the Tollvota of 2021, 764 tons are expected. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to the report on this bill where special tollocate is expected to be used for pigs' websites of 400 tons. Are we talking about an addition to these 764 tons where, if I remember correctly, the EU kavot is 700 tons and VTO something about 64 tons? Does that mean that the 400 tons are additional? Are they inside what we can call the Dutch way out? I expect the Minister to answer that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Yeah, that's actually an extra one. When the bill is read, the goal of the bill and the changes presented here is to replace the so - called open tollovate that was intended for a minister to take care of when there was a lack of a market. The review of the Ministry's work in this case was that domestic production and tollvotes available in beef, chicken meat, for example, did not need to be eaten there, but the results of the production of pork in terms of domestic production and tollocrats' need for what is called a pig's website would be added to the challenge of the consumer consumption of that production. It is taken in such a way that we appreciate that there must be 400 tons of access to the import of a pig pages in order to be able to make another demand for that production product. One is shut down in its own production and in the existing saying, and if you want something to pass, it is simply full of toll.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u53	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Because the answer was natural, as I thought, it is in itself that you are adding to what is today. I would like to remind a minister of what he is doing and then remind him of what we can call the raw meat bill and that the great task there will be no end. We can fully see that when we change customs and also open the import of raw meat, it is very important to us and producers, whether on pork, on poultry, or on any other meat and other agricultural products, that the bill we have often referred to as a raw meat bill will be carried out by the protection set up there. As I understand the prayer of pigs, and have heard from the fattened birds and from the towns of pigs, they fear very much the changes that lie ahead. This is certainly a challenge for Icelandic agriculture. I'd like to encourage the highest. To the honor of the project and the great work we have to do... to get the bill we discussed here in spring and 54 votes, if I recall correctly, for the execution at the time we assumed when the bill was adopted.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-18-33.u54	A respectable president. Naturally, producers are concerned about this aspect of competition. It is perfectly normal for people to worry about taking a competitive fight over factors like this. This is perfectly normal, and we must show them understanding. On the other hand, if I enter the bill itself, it is in accordance with the opinion of those who said that what is in the bill on both the project and the outcome of these dramatic developments from what was being done. Of course, certain factors will always be more controversial than others, but overall I would like to conclude that both shops, farmers, and consumers are in a strong position to agree that all the services and performance are expected to be made stronger and that they work considerably with them. That's what I'm talking about. A senator goes on to mention a matter of importing unheated meat, and I wait for an opportunity to report to the council a report on their progress, on the plan of action. I was supposed to report to the council in November, she's ready for the Ministry, but it just needs to be arranged. I can tell you what. A senator to see that their progress is very successful.
