ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u1	Borist has received a letter from the secretary of state asking for every request to provide a written answer to a petition for this request. 1452 about the office and office manager at the Ministry, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u2	Mr. President. I have to say, to be honest, it was quite surprising to me last night when I read the council program to see that it had been changed and that the energy package was not the first thing to do. In fact, it is contrary to what the councilmen told me they had discussed. I realize that the President has a program here but I would have thought it most appropriate to introduce this platoon leader and even stop a meeting now and talk to them. Yesterday, the president spoke to the Morning Press about the overworking of the council, the lack of agreements, and many meetings, long and long after summer. It's all right in itself. V.E.G. Perhaps the president could have mentioned that according to the original schedule of action, a body of Congress should be completed today and the Council is not yet under way. V.E.G. The president must operate differently than just as a government journalist.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u3	Mr. President. I must say the bottom with the bang. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson. I am impressed that the program of the council is changed to the shelter of the night without consultation with members of the council. I wondered what the purpose is, if it doesn't stand up as a president, and he doesn't let them know of his new plans. I find it very difficult to realize if it's possible to rely on what the president of the United States Congress says, if he says one day, if he will completely change his course, his clients, and let no one know about it. How should we heed what we are told to do, that it works out? Why were we not informed of this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u4	It is true that the president has a few words on how this program is conducted or thoughtated. At the last meeting of a council leader who was before yesterday's meeting, the following afternoon, it was said that the conversation would begin unchanged through the third energy package, which became and was arranged to be found until the evening on that matter. At that meeting, there was no discussion about the program of a meeting today. It certainly takes into account the circumstances presented here, first of all, that we are beyond the time of the work programme. True, it had been removed a few days earlier. For example, for those reasons e.g. not part of the program unprepared inquiries because such teams are traditionally removed or left out of the work to be done at the council when it should be near its end. Then the emphasis is placed on the priorities of prepared issues. As everyone knows, there was no agreement yesterday among the leaders, so the president arranged the program to take place in front of it and far down after the program would be the issues of agreement, with a single committee opinion. It may therefore be read out of the council's will to resolve and accept the matter. So the program is put together. The president trusts that we can make good use of the day to get somewhere to resolve issues that are in full agreement. Surely it could be no one's goal to send them a message from the Allied Council that it is inoperative.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u5	Mr. President. I wondered if we were here to witness a play, since according to the work programme, the council was now being set aside for summer vacations. Aside from the Middle Party seminary, it is noted that we have not yet received proposals from the government into a budget on the changes in financial programmes. Budget plan is the largest case of the council, plan up to 5,000 billion. It is now a matter of more than a month ago, and we have not yet received any response from the government in this great matter. I wondered if the government is simply buying time because the government groups may not be able to meet together for changes to the key points of the government's budget. I'm asking the highest. The president whether or not we are here allowed to participate in some play on the part of the groups that do not agree on a national financial program. This is no concern of the Middle Party's language code. It is amazing that these suggestions are not available and have not been passed on to a financial committee, the old one, for less than three months.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u6	The president believes that the program will speak best for himself. It has 41 cases on it. Some additional cases are coming from the committees at the end of this week and at the beginning or earlier part of the next week, during the course of the week. A senator mentioned, based on the information that the president has. It will complete the budget and result in important matters for us. In other words, approximately Fifty cases to be paid for at the council. The majority of these are agreements that the committee's committee has won for the winter and turned into the hall with a single committee program that recommends that the matter be granted and accepted. This will be considered in the meeting schedule. Then it's in the hands of a dog. Senators responding. The main step of the president is to fulfill his duty to reveal the intervening will of the council, one after the other. Won't he have any more words on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u7	Mr. President. When I realized that at the time, I was very disappointed. 7 This morning the meeting program was not consistent with what was discussed at a council meeting yesterday. The President of the council is the president of all of us. He's at least. My president. Therefore, it was most disappointing that a program that has not been discussed at a council meeting or an agreement should be started here. The President knows as well as I do that at this point there are negotiations going on about how we're handling matters. If all of this is to be done well, the program will be agreed on. On the other hand, when the government is in trouble with financial programs that have not yet entered the council, it is very useful for the government to focus on the government's opposition. [[The president calls.]] I am disappointed if there is a chance I could get to the top. The President is serving those needs of the government with the program today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u8	President. I have to admit, I don't understand what's going on. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] People can giggle like it's some kind of game here, but I'm gonna get back to work. It's been a few days since the members of Congress who now talk about the program today, their categories suggested that the case of the third pack of energy be set up at the end of the program and another take - may I, please. þm. LogiLibo" is what it's been? [[Up front.]] -...on the agenda. Now that's exactly what they're doing. I thought it was true what it was. Councilmen here would rejoice that their own proposal would be followed. I am amazed that this is not done. Here we are discussing a case of one committee view where representatives of the classes listed here speak. I don't see how it's possible to disagree with talking about your own committee. I don't understand what's going on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u9	A respectable president. I haven't been at a council in a long time, and someone ever talked about the theatre of absurdity. But to stay here and join in a job where the manuscript is being written -- well, I don't know when, you'll first know in the morning that there's a new script on the table. It must be a very strange trick not knowing from a minute to a minute, lying around, what's going on. What kind of work are these things doing? We must be able to insist that once the energy package has been said to be on the schedule and that it should be addressed as a problem, that's the way you understood it, but suddenly it's gone, and something else has come on the schedule. For my part, will it be the next thing that happens that what's now gone? We must start doing our job, so the public will start to respect us a little bit more, not less.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u10	Mr. President. I have to agree with what. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Proppér, may I have no idea what's going on. I don't understand what the President's program has done because there was a meeting yesterday and something else but what we're looking at today. I don't think it's strange if he doesn't understand what's going on. The rest of us are just wondering what's going on here. Why does the program look so different from what she looked like yesterday? Yesterday they talked about what they were doing. The members of the Central Party would talk about the energy package and that they would only be spoken for as long as they needed, and suddenly a meeting was delayed. That's what's going on right now, the program's been taken up completely without talking to those who are supposed to be here. It will be a very incorruption of a day, totally unexpected, at the invitation of those who have a means of managing it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u11	Mr. President. I have to say, the President has not been very successful if there are both members of the board and anti-continent councils, and he doesn't understand what's going on. The fact is, members of the council have been meeting quite rapidly during the last few days when nothing has been reported. Last meeting, yesterday, concluded the program of energy package and discussed matters that could not be slowed down. Since no news of last night's stir was being passed, some delegates noticed it at midnight and others did not notice it until this morning. I'm asking the highest. A president: What circumstances caused this to stir, and how do the reasons for their failure to cope with the daylight?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u12	The president did not consider this to be very complex, and he did not mean to discuss it as an attempt to get ahead with the mentioned case and found it for four and a half hours yesterday. At the end of that meeting, there were just as many people in the rosary as there were others at the beginning of the four - hour discussion. The experiment revealed that in this case the situation was totally unchanged. Therefore, the president is amazed if people are not willing to try to take advantage of their time in something else that may give us something, possibly meaning that some issues are being paid today. It will come as a surprise to the president if the issue of solidarity begins. Then the president has become a real problem, if he is not even willing to work in the issues of agreement, and the written resolutions of all councils are available in the committee's opinion of support and will be paid. Otherwise, the President will not discuss this anymore.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u13	Mr. President. I support the program mentioned here that it is beneficial to the council that we try to continue our discussions on matters that lie ahead and that have come here, as the president has mentioned, from the council's payment. I can't figure out if the proposal they made the other day was about to put the energy packets in the back, but not now. At any rate, it cannot be said that it is not endeavoring to meet it. Of course, if the president has to discuss with members of the council he has to discuss with him, he would not agree to present a legal case, as happened yesterday, i.e. There was no discussion about putting on other subjects. We'll take each day at a time. Only yesterday's program was discussed. There was no discussion of today's program on behalf of the president of the United States and me. He's got the program and he's in charge. I support him in our continuing into existing issues. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u14	President. It's all about that yesterday there was a meeting with the presidents and members of the council. It may be so deliberate that it is impossible to grasp exactly what is being said at any given moment, but I thought it was quite certain that the president had told members of the council that the third energy package would be discussed until that conversation was completed. That's how I understood it, and that's how I understood more people sitting in there. This may just be another occasion to discuss how important it is to have written from the council president what he says in these meetings because I don't understand him and I guess I'm not the only one. This is what this is about, that we know what's about to happen. I'm fully aware that it's the highest. The president is single now that a work plan has been decommissioned, and it was very clear in yesterday's meeting as well. I would have thought, though, that it was just a sign of a good cooperation to let us at least. they know when decisions are made. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u15	The president has just as much feeling he doesn't really have anything in his life. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u16	A respectable president. It's got a lot of ringiness on the program. In recent days, we have experienced that the program in front of us may even change to the meeting, jump back and forth, and take over cases where those on the rosary may not even be in a house, and it is everywhere. We do not know if this program will do so. What is often so hard to deal with is that there are three discussions about bills, two discussions about suggestions. Now, we are going to discuss a lot of matters that are in accordance with the church discussion, and as noted earlier today, I remember that there was a need to discuss matters in both 2 and 3. Um, because there were tips that needed to be shown. There are other cases on the program right now. What is wrong must be explained and discussed in more detail. We are in a situation where we are always being stopped back and forth. [[The president calls.]] It is not professional for the General to work in that way. It's not a matter of business.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u17	Mr. President. As a result of the statement made by the General Assemblyman earlier that he did not realize things and thought the government had wanted the energy package at the back, I would like to say, of course, that it was condition that the rest of the administration and government opposition had not been attempted by the government at the time of consultation. V.E.G. However, in magazine interviews, the president has explained how these things were done and even said to the highest degree. The prime minister worked day and night to resolve matters and describe them. V.E.G. Perhaps the president could consider how we other presidents have worked to resolve matters rather than be the emissary of the government. I have to say because of the highest. The president is concerned that he will not control anything, but he still insists on overforcing and all his might that I worry about what position he wants the President to have. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u18	The President's problem is that there appears neither to be any agreement nor to discuss the issues of agreement. Then we have a problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u19	Mr. President. I come up here to agree with what has been said here on how special it is that the council program was changed without consulting members of the council. Because a respectable president mentioned earlier unprepared questions, I find it especially disappointing that they were not on the program. While the Council's work schedule has not been established, it is obvious that there are a number of serious situations in the community. These include serious developments in the tourism service, which are heading for a five - fold failure. I encourage a respectable president to reconsider his decision. I also urge him to interrupt a meeting now and meet with members of the council on the program for the day, as it is evident that there is a sharp lack of clear conversation here. The whole foundation of an agreement is the conversation, but it seems there's no one here who wants to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u20	Mr. President. The meeting of the council classes with the President at 3:00 a.m. was clear and brief. His ministry was given short notice. It announced that the energy package should be on schedule to discuss this matter to the end. At that meeting, it was specifically asked if there would be a special pause in the energy package talk. When asked, the president replied that it was not, that case would be discussed to the end. The President was very clear. He was very clear, there was no room for the president's word to be misunderstood. It is, therefore, absolutely remarkable that the president of the entire council transforms a course without any explanation or complete explanation. [[The president calls.]] It's kind of pure, Mr. President, how Mr. President is acting on this matter. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u21	Mr. President. I think it's obvious there's been a lot of plays here. The play goes on to shed the light on the controversies of the council program, not the problems of the government. When I last visited the Generals' web before bedtime, there were lists of ministers who were supposed to be in response to unsupervised requests from members of the council. Likely, it was too uncomfortable for the government to join that team, so he was released. No one is aware of the problem with the financial programme that has not yet been established, although a work programme should be completed long ago. I'm asking the highest. Whether he will work from his experience at the Council and his experiences in the end of Congress by setting up such a program as this is on the table of members of Congress. [[The president calls.]] This may be the highest experience. A president who tells him that this will lead to the success of the assembly work today and in the days ahead?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u22	Perhaps there is a greater optimism in the president who was in charge of a journey when he decided to make the effort to offer members of the council a case as an agreement and a mutual agreement, since the rest has not produced much results. [[Consider: Without speaking to them?]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u23	Mr. President. Today, as many people as live in Iceland are born tomorrow, so has happened yesterday. Why do I mention this? I'm making it clear that we're a small community. There's no need to conduct Congress in this way. I have long had the hope that we can work together much better. Of course, Congress and the greater part are in charge, but it's part of the democracy to listen to the smaller parts. The situation is often improved by this review. This conflict tradition, the star race that is now reflected in the conference board, sucks. How pathetic it is that we invite one another to join us in this and the nation! We've been talking about promoting the council, building new tactics, and it seems to me that this is exactly the same thing that has been here for decades. It is not new that the council does not shine directly at the end of the council, but I do remember a time when the current president of Generalis criticized the then president of the Generals for being the director of the government, and I wondered if the current president of IIis would approve of that title today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u24	Mr. President. I don't know if there's an outback or a misunderstanding. The problem was not about exactly what is on the program but because it surprised everyone that these matters were on the agenda when I told everyone I mean the position of government, in the light of what had been discussed before. Criticism, therefore, focuses, not on the personal program, but on the lack of understanding about the program. Now we are living in a difficult time in the Senate work. There's a lot to finish. We all agree, but we need to do so in a natural way too. If the discussion falls down, if you can't have a short conversation on how to make a change in the planned schedule, moving forward toward some success is extremely difficult. I'm waiting for the highest. The President to try to communicate normally.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u25	Mr. President. The joint has failed unprepared queries, and this will take over the planned program. This is too common at the General Assembly, and thinking that sometimes you feel like Iceland and Iceland are overcrowded by their fingers every once in a while, too much impregnable. It is clear that when the presidents of the House of Governments have a common understanding of what came to the conclusion of a meeting with a president, then the president changes the decision, it is not as it should be. Here's a few words I give the highest. To bear in mind: confidentiality, conversation, cooperation, conversation, agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u26	President. Here I have seen in the discussion that I always find a poem on the council, turning from the words of other senators. I'd like to state that I understand this program very well. I understand very well that we are going to discuss matters that we agree on. What I don't understand is when people don't want to talk about something they're saying. I'd like to try 34 seconds to explain this to someone who's looking at me like it's turning over. There are more than 20 cases in the United States that agree on how to get over it. Committees stick together. Senators from all categories want them to be the way they live. However, some members of the council do not want their own will to be brought up, do not want to do their job here, because something else has not been negotiated with them. [[Take it up: wrong.]] It's a business of clothing. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u27	Mr. President. I feel a little bit like I'm at my old workplace, the theatre, because there's some kind of show going on while the government is trying to figure out how she's going to manage the government's finances for the next five years. As far as I know of a conversation with various members of the council, members of the board have not been allowed to see in the package how financial programs should look. Under normal circumstances, we at the council should have resolved the matter long ago. But it's like this, and that's why they let it all go, because the government is having a big deal with this. They don't know how to behave. In the two seconds that I have left, I'm going to ask for the U.S. Army. President. I asked ten weeks ago about the cost of a national court order. [[The president calls.]] A minister is to give an answer in two weeks, but now, ten weeks later, the answer is not yet answered. I'd appreciate it if I could help a president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u28	It's a matter of time to check with the Ministry where the answer is or prepared. For information, it can be explained that the program consists of the same points as yesterday, plus one. That in itself should not be the case. Councilmen are surprised to learn that this is about the exact 40 cases that were planned yesterday.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u29	A respectable president. A respected president mentioned an unflinching president's optimism, and members of Congress say they're surprised, and the president is surprised. It is sometimes difficult to distinguish between when the senators pretend or are joking, and I'm assuming that the greater part must be joking and respectable president. Obviously, the agreement is. Clearly, the end of the matter has to be negotiated. Since 1983, a respected president has been present at a council meeting and is surprised at the complaint over noncommunications at the end of the council. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Really speaking, the president of this council is traditional, and he knows the work well. The rules need to be negotiated or changed. That's how it works, a respectable president knows this, and members of the greater part know it and can't seem to be surprised, so now the rules need to be negotiated or adjusted. In fact, I would suggest the latter if it is so, offering myself to work on that good and important work. Please, Mr President, may the greater part stop pretending to be surprised or at least say out loud that he is joking. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u30	President. It's drawing up a picture somehow like this: The president informs at a meeting of the council groups not to achieve a contract and to continue to complete an energy package until the end. From experience with a discussion of the energy package in the last 140 hours, the president concluded that it will be over in four hours. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] He'll be surprised when he doesn't make it. Last night at 1930, taking a good time to make a decision, sets just before midnight a changed program on the web, but obviously doesn't have time to inform the council members of the government opposition. Now we understand. And I agree with what's been said before, if the president is seriously surprised that we are the shoddy members of the government opposition council, because we have not been shown the respect of being made aware of this change. There is no doubt about the authority of a president to do that. But I'm going to continue to question the integrity of a president who's gonna come out like this. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u31	Mr. President. Mr. President earlier said he had a problem. True, he has a problem, but he is that the president of the false religion - I reiterate - the criticism of government opposition. Until we reached the 2330 last night, this meeting should begin with unsubstantiated queries, and then the third energy package should continue into the infinite. Without warning, however, the president changes the program, without consultation, and against the previous words, contrary to what the president had previously told members of the council. That is the criticism of government opposition. If the president listens at least to what he says, he knows well. People, though he no longer talks to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u32	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you very much. A president for this program. I have to say, I'm getting really tired of the middle party's bullshit talk about the third energy package, and I've heard that many others have a backdrop. The members of this room feel similarly, so I am very happy to be able to discuss here a good, valid subject, which has actually been on the program for the last two weeks. I think it's fine that those who may be listening realize that although they speak of an unpredictable program, this program has remained for weeks and days. The only thing that happened now was that it was decided to give a case that has been here in some debate competition in this hall below the program. I'm very happy if we can start discussing the good things I also like to discuss. There are cases 3rd. which we voted for yesterday. Here is a case proposed by the Piratars to reduce the cost of menstrual and contraception, here is a plan for action against violence, a plan of Icelandic as official. There's a lot of good stuff here. I can't believe that the U.S.R. doesn't want to get started finishing up and getting them through.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u33	I'll do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u34	- Then let's do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u35	President. It's a really weird little charade around here. Of course, I'd welcome this program too if the government had only agreed with us and if the President had let us know. [[For example, the Speaker has the program rights.]] Well, he can also let us know. [[Up front.]] But what this is all about, what I see in this is that the directors have been in negotiations with the prime minister and the government, and what's happening is that the government refuses to face that she is making a deal with two parties. And when they were looking at negotiating the third energy package, the other groups in the government opposition refused to be responsible for the contracts, for the third energy package. Then everything got ripped apart. So, what's this about? Has the third energy package been negotiated and this is part of it? [[The president calls.]] And then, I'm sorry, President, to shit on the rest of us. Of course, it's about the fact that we want to negotiate for the end of the council, which is just fine, but we also want to know in advance what matters will be on the program for the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u36	Mr. President. I think the President described the problem he has in this matter well before. He is that there has really not been an agreement to discuss the differences that are on this list, a program list for today, with 41 languages, but it has not been a agreement to discuss the agreements. Thus, when presidents have mentioned it to members of the House of Government if matters of agreement could not be cleared up, cases of mutual opinion, and no material disagreements, it has been unconcerned. It would be nice to hear if representatives of the government, which are raised in holy jealousy and anger, could describe the perplexing reasons they have for resisting the issue that has been discussed up to this point. It would be nice to know what the material evidence is, for it is not lawful to talk about the issues presented here that are materially in agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u37	President. Of course, these matters are addressed, they are to be discussed, and I am pleased with this program. [[Foreground on, great.]] We have to follow the plays. There are contracts and humans can use all kinds of tricks, but they have to follow the rules. The guidelines say that the President has the agenda. He has tremendous power. He's got his ethic right now. A work schedule has been disabled so that it can arrange for a meeting at any time he pleases, and he will schedule the program. However, he must consult with members of the council on that program. That's what Congress laws say. If the president intends to exercise his authority, I will submit myself to it while it is under the regulations, but as soon as he goes above, he is a tyrant. It's over, and we're not going to accept that. It's not working, and it's very dangerous for the President to fail to comply with the rules. The rules are very clear, at 86. ... that the President should regularly consult with the heads of Congress, including planning to be a member of Congress every week. [[The president calls.]] Furthermore, the president shall consult with the chairman of a panel of discussions on important matters if it is reasonable to assume that there will be a great discussion. Our President is not involved. It's not working.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u38	Mr. President. Had the president wanted to drive the Senate into a ditch, he probably would have done it somehow, out of complete disrespect for the memory of the parts here, by asking himself to have a change in schedule with no discussion with the council members of my body at council. [[Exactly.]] Of course, this shows that the government is not ready to complete Congress because it is simply not ready for the vital matters that it needs to complete. The fiscal policy is still unsettled by a budget committee, and the smaller part has not seen the least about the government's plans for changing financial plans. I get to speak up in a second speech. A president of the work that he did in his day in my part of the world. Apparently, he did not learn much from the criticism he presented there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u39	A respectable president. There's a lot of exits around here, it's fun. I'd like to talk to you about the leadership of the President. The president is an extremely experienced man. He is well - experienced in the matter of Congress. After all his career, he should likely be able to take his own position in earlier years and guess what would happen if the chairman of the council changed the program without speaking to any members or members of the council. What would he do? This event has been completely from the President's formula. He knows what happens when the President behaves like this, and yet he did. That means it's all the responsibility of a president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u40	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u41	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé began to explain to us what we want. Of course, I am grateful to him for explaining this to me. V.E.G. The president also told us what we knew and what we should be able to tell ourselves. I'm just as grateful for that. At least I'd like to let myself do these seconds a few words about what I think I want and think I know. I want the highest. The president is unpredictable, but not unpredictable. I want the highest. The president is trustworthy, but not unreliable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u42	Mr. President. I wanted to come back up here again and reiterate what I ended earlier and encourage the president to interrupt the meeting and call members of the council. The conversation is first of all. Not that the government seems to have made a deal with the Central Party on the third energy package, since they are not in a house. But a respectable president says he intended to experiment, and I don't think this experiment just worked out. I agree with what. paritaprevir Ágúlá Ólafur Ágústsson: We can do this better, but this clearly requires more conversation. I encourage a respectable president to contribute to that conversation rather than to further steel.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u43	A respectable president. There's some misunderstanding that I'm going to correct a few times. There are no material comments on the program. It's about the end of Congress, as the President knows and understands. There are no material comments on the program. It's about the end of Congress, as the President knows and understands. There are no material comments on the program. It's about the end of Congress, as the President knows and understands. There are no material comments on the program. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It's about the end of Congress, as the President knows and understands. There are no material comments on the program. It's about the end of Congress, as the President knows and understands. There are no material comments on the program. It's about the end of Congress, as the President knows and understands. Once again: There are no material comments on the program. It's about the end of Congress, as the President knows and understands. There are no material comments on the program. It's about the end of Congress, as the President knows and understands. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u44	A respectable president. Yesterday when I went to sleep, the energy package was on schedule. I thought he'd be on the schedule for the morning, but it wasn't, and now I'm told that the President has the authority to make this participant jump to and from the end of ◯behag. I ask myself, " If I go out and get a cup of coffee or go to the grace hall, will the 36th Subjection of Iceland's Secret Bank and SEC be on schedule when I get back? ' [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Can things just jump out and south? Is this some kind of magic that will change after the program is canceled? Is that correct, can it just be that way? I ask them, " How on earth could we write such a manuscript and put it in law? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u45	It is tried to follow a program in the order of speech as far as possible. It's usually a deal if it's gone. That's not what we're doing today. [[Take it up: partnership, yes.]] Today there is no time to change the order of things.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u46	Mr. President. First, I want to say good and important words. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson without repeating them. Clearly, this situation has come into play. There are ways to cut such knots, and the president knows them considerably better than I do so that I would simply suggest, like a dog. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Flanders, Elíasdóttir of Elias, has repeatedly made a break in the meeting and a meeting with members of the council. It would also be nice to have a prime minister in this house because some form of consultation might be needed, but in any case, there would be a way for all to get together in peace. I say for myself that I look forward to winning the subjects on which I am going. I can't wait for us to finish them, and that's what I think everybody wants. But we must do so according to a more reasonable, reasonable way. Asking for things to be predictable is not indistinguishable. [[The president calls.]] Once again, I hope the President can just solve this problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u47	It's, for example. It's very convenient to just start with the first item on the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u48	Mr. President. I see here on the program are a number of brilliant cases, worth taxes on menstrual and contraception, plans for action against violence, Icelandic as public cases, public schools bill, rent law, walletal cooperation in sports between children and adolescents. All of these are the issues that have been on the program for the past few days but that have not been discovered. The government situation, the one who has sometimes called himself a liberal ruler, suggested a few days ago that exactly this way would be gone. Now it's done. I've had a lot of congregational experience, but I've had experience with a variety of other jobs and since I've been working, it's been so that those people who have had the ability to respond quickly and in the circumstances have been those who have been the most valued. [[The president calls.]] I especially appreciate it in the highest part of my life. President. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u49	Mr. President. By permission of the President: It's the president in charge. He has very much uncircumcised power. Of course, it obligates the president to try to maintain peace over the decisions they make in the strength of their office. That's obviously not part of the plan. The question may be asked, a respectable president: Is that intent? Has it become a goal in itself to continue driving this issue in a conflict? Is there anything special about having a bad, hard - to - deal relationship, even the arrangements and timing of the discussion? It's kind of hard to draw another conclusion from the way Presidents are doing things here. And, of course, you protest absolutely, Mr. President. That was the highest. In 2007, President, then senator, Stetgrim J. Sigfússon, strongly protests the same practices of the former officer. The president of Generalis, Sturla the son of Böðvarsson. It's a nice word. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u50	That's what the president agrees with. That was a good wording in its time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u51	Mr. President. It's impossible to sit by when there's a good language to talk about. Otherwise, I was on my way out to pick up a pop to have this pleasant discussion. I noticed why. After a talk about the third energy pack, the hall senators have advertised a great deal. It's new. I'd like to tell the members of the council who intend to participate in this discussion, and I encourage that the third energy package is No. Thirty-eight on the schedule today. In the meantime, there are some talks and discussions about the matter that has been held for a while. It's been rather lonely for us middleclassmen to be without flashing up good ideas and speeches from other members of the council. [[Up front.]] I hear that men are in the gear, and are eager to get this matter on the agenda, and I urge that in due time they may do so. I encourage everyone to go to the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u52	For the time being, the president has no more registered to discuss the chairmanship of the president. For example, a large percentage of those in attendance have already spoken twice. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson must be talking about the President's conference board for a second time. [[Up front.]] It's not the third time, is it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u53	I've once managed to smuggle myself in like this. It was quite surprising. Now we have this position. Of course he knows. The president of the situation when he doesn't see it. He changes the program, has already said that the third pack of energy is there, then brings it to the back of the program, handles matters that are agreements, and we want to discuss them, knowing that there is a set trap for the smaller section: Will you be quiet or what are you going to do? It's always part of some negotiations going on, etc. Of course, the way the president does this is like throwing a screw key into the machine of the contracts that are being passed for which the prime minister is responsible. It's either the highest. The prime minister of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, agrees with this and wants to have it this way, and then she's responsible or she's talking to a president and saying, "Hey, this isn't working. However, I still have a feeling that this is part of the way the board is going to negotiate. It's a negotiation technique, it's a classic, it's called the rhythmy way to buy time, the rhythms of walking on the door, temporarily ruining negotiations to buy time. [[The president calls.]] This is a book that you can familiarize with, 99 laws on negotiations, one of the first laws. That's exactly what's going on. As a result, all of this is the responsibility of the government, the prime minister of Jakobsdóttir, who is in charge of these negotiations and of a president who is abusing his authority. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] He's going into trouble with the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u54	What did he say? Senator? No, it's better if the President didn't hear that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u55	Mr. President. Clearly, people are in a hot mood here because of their lack of respect for the government. That doesn't make it any better for people to be careful about what they say, and that's where the person standing on the ice just got to be. I want to take this opportunity to pray to the highest level. The president's apologies for mentioning that there may be a reason to question his integrity in this matter. That's where I got ahead of myself and I'm waiting for the best. President's apologies for that. There are other reasons to make comments about his advancement in this matter that have already been made.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u56	President thanks a lot. A senator accepts an apology with pleasure and value.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u57	Mr. President. It's a matter that I've been in a bit of a lot of time, and I've had strong opinions about it. I realized that after 2nd. I concluded that there is a point that is somewhat important to us that we show a certain understanding, and I felt that it was right to try to make a minor explanation. This phenomenon of intermediate protection or failure to host and intermediate communication is an old value that was associated with telephone systems at its time, but the development of it in connection with electronic business and electronic services began around 1989 with the so - called Cubicy v. ComuServe, U.S.A. There, a dispute arose about the responsibility of a host who turned to who was responsible for when someone says, for example, that is. Something unfashionable on the Internet. In the past 30 years, of course, things have changed dramatically. There are a lot more of us using electronic communication today. Although it has been very long and often used, its nature is usually two - sided conversation, but on the Internet, there are many other opportunities, especially those of keeping information in databases and other information that people can get back in time. In the past, and perhaps around 1989,1995, the Internet was primarily the scene of very small parties. Every small town and village ran its network, i.e. There may have been one company in every village who ran some kind of network. Gradually this grew and companies like Companys were certainly with them the first to take some space in what might be talked about as a bigger business. Today, it is another, literally, and we live in that large companies such as Facebook and Google take up an enormous part of public conversation and online communication. It's made it possible for people to ask a lot of questions about whether people like Facebook, Google, etc., who say the largest people, will not benefit too much from the limitations of the host's responsibilities that exists and whether the limited responsibilities that have been imposed on Cubby v should be limited. ComaServe, and later by legislation in the United States, chapter 230, by permission of presidents, ◯Communication Decency Actκ, a provision of quality in communications or similar, and then in Europe by Directive 2000/31/EC which is, in fact, no other than European implementation of the same values. As we progress further in this discussion, this will be a more difficult question because we now know that, for example, this is a question. Facebook has become a major political influence; it has become a major influence in widespread human rights violations. A few years ago, e.g. ... experimenting to commit genocide at the Myanmar Rohunds, and I can mention other such cases. Then comes this question, which was really the principle of Cubby v. ComuServe case: Should the host always be irresponsible against the implanted materials? These three guidelines were established: Yes, but not in the case of a author's transgression, not in the case of child abuse agents and not in the case of a court order. All right, but it also needs this fourth basic rule, which is that if the host handles some kind of editor, he is an active editor and therefore is no longer irresponsible. This made it possible for all members from then on to avoid doing some censorship so as not to bring on the responsibilities at hand. But we do know that the topic series, such as Facebook, is in an active censorship of the material to be censored but also other material that is not entirely obliged to censor and apply to the most large artificial intelligence and also to the army of people, above all, I have heard, in the Philippines, that reviews material that is inserted. I'm not trying to extend this anything in particular, but I think it's worth calling attention to the twisted position that has come up. If we take the approach that some have started to speak, to increase the responsibility that hosting persons may have produced a degree of cooling effect. There may be difficulty with hosts to allow certain forms of expression or fear of selling services to a legislator that can be easily followed. There may be various trials about which materials will be allowed to warm. On the contrary, we know that the politics are being influenced by the fact that hosts have so limited responsibility. Facebook is actually shielding itself behind such laws to justify their failure to intervene when it is a major misuse of their system for certain political powers. They have also hidden behind this in the face of genocides, which are organized in part through their social setting. They simply say: We are not responsible, which is certainly legal. How can we solve this knot? How can we fix this? One thing that we must in any way ensure is that if there is a limit to this limited responsibility, this limitation will not be transmitted from hosts to servers over the Internet, over the telephone system, and more in the way of becoming some kind of culture, since the phone companies are going to listen to communication directly to prevent them from being responsible for what is said in the context. Of course, this is something that can be prevented to some extent by a good encryption. This does not change the fact that there is a danger that has been attributed very well, and in fact, there are many good books about all the things I'm doing here. In particular, it is one fine summary book entitled Filters and Freedom, published seven or eight years ago. The other thing is, we have a lot of different parties today, we have these big parties who may be doing other things but have been put up with and understanding was on when Cubby v. ComuServe's case was taken care of. You can find some way to say that Facebook, YouTube, and Google are different from the early status of BBS, 30 years ago. To find out where to pull that line, I think that's one of the points we'll have to deal with in the next few years. There is a chance that this will be resolved at the European Union's first level and that some kind of solution will be found there and likely in more extensive consultations, e.g. on the basis of a so-called governance chain, by permission of the president, i.e. The text field of the network that is driven by the United Nations But until such a final solution is found - indeed, there is no final solution in these materials, but until we find out what is the next phase of development in this limit of the host's responsibility - there will be cases in Icelandic society and in other parts of the world that will require us to discuss them here and try to find solutions. So I just wanted to put this into the discussion at this stage so that we would be more aware of it and can try to approach it with a certain respect to the complex task that is keeping balanced with the different viewpoints that exist here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u58	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. I have to say right now, sitting down with a bang. A member of the Economic and Business Committee that discussed this matter, that I thought this was kind of a better review of the issues on the subject than we were given to the Committee, so thank you again. This is a very interesting subject, for here we are taking a very firm stand for the limit of freedom of expression, especially that freedom of expression to our incremental problem of false news and the distribution of selective deceptions designed to undermine even democratic national organization in many countries, as we see examples. In this context, I wondered that it would be interesting to hear the point. The senator with regard to the real events here where we see such initiatives in the election here. In many cases, we saw all kinds of anonymous propaganda, outright deception, and lies, which were widely distributed in the controversies of the election. Unfortunately, I say, there was nothing done about the government after the election to dive into who might have been behind it and whether it had been a violation of our election law or who would have been breaking those legislation. I wondered if we have a chance to expand, considering. A senator, a law code like this in an effort to handle these matters of opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u59	Mr. President. It's not an easy question to ask. Senator. The question is always about how to increase the responsibilities of the host to the extent that they become, for example, the individual. to help inform who are behind frontal attacks on democracy, but how we do not increase our responsibility so much that they hesitate to allow certain forms of expression. I don't know a good answer to that question. I'm not sure anyone would know a good answer to that question, but one way would be to increase information required to authorities in situations where there is some illegal activity. It would have to be defined as slightly narrow, e.g. It's hate propaganda and stuff. It is very difficult to address false stories because false stories are nothing more than opinions that have been based on facts or anything. Somehow you need to figure this out. I think that part of the reason that we are in this problem today, and this is a historical review on my part, is that those who developed it at the time designed it in good faith. They designed it on the grounds that, in fact, everyone was working together to have more communication. Decisions were made for those who might not have made the trust that should exist. As a result, we are in a situation where the technical subsystem of the network is not based on any basis for trust and is being tried to embalm a system that must be turned on today, and unfortunately many are misused by the lack of trust. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u60	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I agree, this is not an easy question - and I don't have any better answers to it myself. But that is a thought - provoking thought - provoking thought. A senator came in exactly. We will start off with a great communication device, which is the Internet that has reduced our world, brought us closer to one another, but at the same time, as it continues to develop, being turned up a little into its opposite direction, i.e. We are becoming isolated from one of our brothers in our farms, and then we see very dangerous signs that the cheer - masses, and even the nations, are taking advantage of that fact to try to have, and not only try but, in a tangible way, influence the conclusion of democratic elections, to deceive certain groups in order to choose certain peoples out of all other peoples, and to play on feelings with false stories. There is then an anonymous party behind it, and there seems to be no trace of it to their own responsibilities. I think it's a bit of a worry when we see the same attitude on the land. Like other democracies, we cannot imagine being left out of this trend. Although we may not see a big power meddling with democratic elections in such a powerful way, it is still a very scary development for democracy here, when we see anonymous domestic groups, that we believe, in a similar way. In some way we need to react, and it was disappointing that after the last election, we did not continue to investigate who was behind them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u61	Mr. President. There's a problem in this too. It's so hard to break it apart. We'll talk, for example. that the dragnet was built up in good faith, that all were working together in good faith, and as a result, there was no solid structure. All could do everything without needing any special authentication. It is certainly one of the factors that enabled the Internet to grow as fast as it did. Today, all aspects of human society - whether money systems or payment programs, the networks responsible for reporting, and other topics or conversational conversations - are being developed by this lack of confidence. Then there are the natural national security issues that may focus primarily on the fact that only military forces can be placed on the border, hoping that they will be sufficient to push back attacks because an attack can be on the inside or outside, just by who controls the time. A border just has no meaning in this context, and when we have a party, like this group of Kosuns 2016◯2017 or whatever it is, we know exactly who is behind it, but we may not be able to prove it because they hide behind this particular namelessness that Facebook offers. There is some conversation that cannot be dealt with Facebook until it has been found how to maintain a limited host responsibility that is relevant to the continued development of this technology. At the same time, we have a way of informing Facebook as an enterprise who is behind the frontal attacks on our democracy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u62	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for his speech. The one standing here is not in trouble. A financial and business committee that I understand has discussed this matter, so of course, I have not been listening to the guests and have been given the information there. Nevertheless, I'd like to ask you a few questions. A senator on what is in the bill report and asks for a quick explanation of why there is an intermediate, sometimes a service recipient and -lewer, sometimes a hoster, etc. Because I'm trying to figure out where the responsibility lies with whom. Maybe I'll come in on it in my second answer. I'm trying to figure out the discrepancies in all this choice of words.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u63	Mr. President. It is understandable that this concept of a person is present, for these are technical concepts that have a certain meaning. A dictionary would have to be produced that explains all of this. If I try to break this up, it can be said that the intermediate is anyone who is the mediator of communication. It can be interpreted in two ways. A person is involved in real-time communication or communication between two parties, and another person contains information for the party of A as a party B can come and pick up any time it might be convenient or after any organization. A service provider is actually the one who is serving as an intermediate for communication. It's probably easy. When we talk about someone who has information for someone, it's a host host, but when we're talking about a difference between a host and a chemical company, which is a recent separation, e.g. talking about Spotify as a iridator rather than a host agent because I'm not really asking Spotify to store anything for me, but I'm adding Spotify a bunch of data and moving them to my provider. A service provider is certainly hosting data, but is not a host in the sense of European directives 2000/31/EC, or handling electronic business and other electronic services. In contrast, Spotify as a member will be responsible for the towards-relevant authorial directive 2019/790/ESB, which is different. [[The president calls.]] They're being tried to tear these things apart because there's a difference between them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u64	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much trying to explain this to me. I wrote to myself that the intermediate was a host, but then I kept her going. A senator went on to explain that this was just the opposite. Then there was the word material force, which then is like Spotify, but I don't quite understand where the responsibility is. For example, what if someone paged illegal material, e.g. If Spotify or Facebook published illegal material or someone running Drapbox knows that it contains illegal material, it could. A senator goes on to see if I as an individual could go to the police and say: "I know that in a dropbox at some other person in a town, there is an illegal material. Who is responsible for this? Is it the person who loaded the material or if you're distributing it--in my previous job that a lawyer sometimes came to us to find material and was mostly hate porn where it was being distributed a very hurtful footage of individuals and then the police would be in trouble with it because there were some hosts, as mentioned then, in a world that no one knew where. [[The president calls.]] Where is the responsibility for all of this? Well, maybe. A senator explained whether this bill might go into the process of somehow trying to determine the responsibility?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u65	Mr. President. That is an amazing question, and it is not easy to distinguish. There are so many materials, e.g. is indeed Facebook, but is also the host's host for the mails and photos we install. Of course, it's also intermediate communication, standing between them, and providing information for their users. Then we come to systems like a Droopbox where Droopbox is certainly a host but does not normally host for general use. There are also extremes where they are whipping something open. How could a person know that some kind of offense is involved in material stored in a Droopbox unless it was opened? Now, what's the big deal here. Hysterians have limited responsibilities, i.e. They are not responsible for the material that is hosted in them provided three conditions are met. If they have information about e.g. Child abuse material is responsible for removing it. If they are given a court order to remove the material, they must do so, and if they have confirmed evidence of a fraction of the paper, they should take it down. In many cases, illegal downloads have been reported. There is no such thing as an illegal distribution, not an illegal download. [[The president calls.]] Is it illegal, then, to store information that is written by writers inside a sealed Dropbox? [[The president calls.]] I don't know. This is complicated, and in fact, there are other complications.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u66	A respectable president. This is where we speak authorly. As it happens, the person standing here is a member of a group called Pirantar, and it is at the lowest rate in the Icelandic language. When we started the party, we do not know how to call ourselves the pirate party, which is a literal translation of the English or Swedish word pirate, so we decided to call ourselves Pirate party at that time. But even though we sometimes have a party, we felt better about calling ourselves Pirata. The reason we call ourselves Pirata is that on the Internet, it has a good behavior called the Icelandic authorage. That's what the English word piracy covers. We don't say "wamp," maybe we should, we'll say "straighty." The reason we call this class is that in 2000 and something small, 2005 or 2006, a judgment in Sweden fell, in which several young gentlemen were sentenced to a prison sentence for gross authorual violations with the direct design of the site pirbey.se, in order to make it easier, officially. It was no secret. This resulted in a cessation of controversy or ideological conflict that had existed since the beginning of the printing machine and certainly since the Internet began, i.e. Controversy on how to treat a writer's weight. The Pizza Party does not agree with the authorship, and it is in the direction of its party that authors have the right to enjoy their work. Let's be absolutely clear. We're not against writers' rights. On the other hand, the author's rights are basically thought of as rights from hundreds of years of age ideologies based on the press and are simply not thought in harmony with the information technology revolution. This means that when the information technology revolution took place in the first part of this century or in the last few years, it began to become more apparent, not among those who were doing authoritarian violations, but all others also, a clear contradiction between free flow of information and thus using the Internet as best and the second, in enforcing authorial rights as it had been intended up to that time. At that time, people posted their websites a blue ribbon that would represent freedom of expression. People sometimes miss their old websites with the black background and red letters, explosions, and anything that could interfere with reading what was on the page. These included all kinds of tables and causes. I miss it a little bit. What was about to happen was that people who did not commit a author's offense had to be accused of having a hard-on or were put at odds with their use of the Internet because of the authorship of others or did not have access to information because somehow, in some way, the fragment was also performed in the specific areas where legitimate and important information were available. Now I'm just dipping my toe down into the gang level that comes up when we put a author in the classic sense in connection with the free flow of information. There's an internal contradiction between them that's a little hard to cross. It's not impossible, but it's difficult, and there's always some gray line and a assessment of which interests and rights are more important. It's always hard. The freedom of expression and privacy of privacy can overlap, especially in legal systems, such as those in the United States, where privacy of privacy works in a far different way than in the European rights and freedom of expression as well. For this reason it is no wonder that when technological progress takes place at an exorbitant pace, such as occurred in the late 20th century and is still taking place today, people are on the market, in Congress, in the administrative system, and everywhere simply not time to grasp the large context of the parts. People don't blame them, they're just overexcited changes that take time to realize and react wisely. Except, there was little understanding of the nature of the Internet, there was little understanding of the consequences of free flow of information and what it meant for our animal species while it was an enormous amount of understanding, at any rate, of specialized lawyers, of the authorship and of the importance of maintaining and enforcing it. What happened was that humans were taking an oversupervised over the Internet to enforce authorial rights and had a great grasp of the importance of protecting and enforcing writers but little understanding of the consequences of political actions. There were terrible ideas, such as. one who was present during a 1997 radio interview or so, from another wonderful person I've met freely, who suggested the most extreme seriousness of reacting to the fact that people were sending audio files with music between them, the Internet would simply be tapped by people, and if they were so - called MP3 files, it would be just to see what people were doing and react to events. It was really a suggestion. I'd like to underscore how crazy this is. It was not a stupid man who put it into practice. Rather, it was a speaker and an intelligent person who was simply concerned about the interests of artists, natural and legitimate concerns about artist interests, though exaggerated. In real life, the suggestion was to listen to people's communications in order to enforce authorial rights. It's worth thinking about. In the year 2000, it reminds me of exactly what is called the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, which I'm not going to translate into Icelandic, I don't think there's any purpose in that, abbreviated DMCA. That's exactly the law letter, with American law accuracy, let's say, which is here suggested to be taken away. It meant that it was important that the right - to - dors simply point to the site of the site and say: There is a penitentiary and then the material should be taken down. No judgment, no jury, no lawsuit, no investigation. The matter was simply taken away by the fact that it was pointed out and said: "Take it down, please. " These were naturally controversial laws at the time among people who were used to using the Internet and who play into the cause of the blue ribbon I mentioned earlier, often published on the websites of people who were free on the Internet. The divorce in both the United States and here on the issue was almost complete. Throughout history, much pressure has always been put on trying to control the Internet, and this pressure has come mainly from the head of the court. It's interesting to think about that. Why do they have rights? Why not a secret agency or private companies that want to market themselves? Why was the author's power most important at the beginning of the fight against free flow of information on the Internet? It's worth asking. I don't have an accurate answer, but it's interesting. I think it's interesting. Now, things have changed, and today they are not writers who are the most visible but perhaps in matters like this. The revolution is still happening. This is even faster than ever before. There are other people who want to control the free flow of information, including secret services and private companies. Then I hate to say it, but I'm gonna say it in English: I'm toled you so. Icelandic: You were told, you were told this would happen. By this unbelievable freedom that the Internet brought to us, of course, there are forces that want to hinder that freedom in behalf of their own power. But in the last part of the last century and in the first part of this, the main rights of this were those who were foremost in their determination. However, things have changed quite a bit over the years. The exact reason I can mention that the courts have been on the front point is that it was not understanding the subject, as I mentioned before, the lack of understanding the nature of free flow information, not necessarily an understanding of the technology on which the Internet is based, too, but we do not necessarily need to understand the technology behind the car to set traffic laws. We need to understand the social consequences of having cars on the streets, that we have a large set of devices that many people can fit inside at an alarming rate and that can hit another person or wall or whatever. That is what we need to understand; we need to understand the consequences of technology development in order to establish laws that are reasonable. In general, the lawgiver has made a mess of it here as in other places by making laws like the ones suggested here to be removed. It is also true that the Lawgiver has considered it a radical idea to question the right to enforce authory in the traditional way and to enforce the traditional understanding of authorism. I'm glad to see that there's a decrease in the attitude. This is not a radical idea unless, in the sense, it is a necessary reaction to the fact that this situation has become and is taking place very radical changes in human society. They are reflected in the fact that now we have almost complete free flow of information, much more opportunity to share information, to collect information and share it with others. That's good. That's the way it's supposed to be. That is the key point in rethinking how we promote the rights of authors and the precise legalizations of themes. There is something else that is worth considering when discussing authorly, and it is a type of property that is extremely complexly legal. I encourage people to recall their childhood. When you see a baby, like... slap parents in the face and the parent may make a scene or say: Shame, or something like it, when a child does something about it, beats another child, steals something or lies, or does something that we have decided to be socially wrong, the lesson is simple, and we all remember it. Compare it only with a fragment of capital, an astroologically complex legal phenomenon. We cannot, just don't have time when we're young so that we can gain some inner insight into what authorship is all about. So, how do you think they're gonna do something like that? to explain to a five - year - old or a six - year - old the right to honor or other legal concepts of authorial rights? You don't, because children will always be surprised when they find that they can't simply copy movies and, as a result, share the goods with others at nothing, in their view, because they can't see the damage done by it. They don't see how the business model works that made it possible to start with or that many people would like to mean that the production was possible at first. This means that we generally do not have a very strong sense of authorhood in adulthood. People who think only of this may have a strong sense of identity, but it is not nearly as deeply entrenched and built as when a child is raised in not lying, not stealing, and not hurting. This will never be obvious, of course, in training our children, and hence will never be obvious in our general moral sense as to the distribution and distribution of information and content. The most important example of this is when you go to YouTube and see some clips from a movie or maybe a music video or something like that. They are often distributed by right heads because, knowingly, new business models appear and act without restricting the availability of others to the information. Sometimes people aren't rights, they put the stuff on YouTube or somewhere else on the Internet, on an open medium, and put it under the text: I don't own this material. I say I don't have this stuff. It's all entertainment. Of course, this is usually said in English, at least of the most I work on the Internet. I think that reflects the misunderstanding. The offense is accepted by an excuse, and people act as if it were permitted simply by announcing that the material is not theirs, which, of course, is true. People do not even realize that they must not distribute the material because the damage is not so obvious. In fact, I would say that the damage will be less obvious over time because the business models thrive and grow more diverse. I'm sorry, but I'm running out of time, a respectable president, but I wish to be put back on the rosary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u67	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson is very much concerned with his discourse, which was mostly over the author's downturn. I'll do one thing because I'm still in the same place as before when I had a word with his platoon brother. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy, and wondered about protecting the public from illegal material. 14th degree. the more recent laws that are being changed are spoken of responsibility as a result of hosting. The number 3 is 1 mg. spoke of a host's responsibility if he or she has been informed of data containing child pornography. I wondered if it doesn't just have to make the host more responsible for what he's involved in his activities and contributes to the distribution of illegal material. Now I'm not talking about authoritarian material, but, surely, authoritarian material, let's say pornography, which is obtained without the will of the subject, even though it is an adult. Why isn't this part of it? Would it not have been right to try to find a way to protect those who have suffered such a situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u68	A respectable president. Hv. In fact, a member of this body rights in terms of a bill that the person here has proposed for digital sexual abuse, which could better be described as graphic sexual abuse. It has to do with the criminal responsibility of those who distribute drugs with nudity or sexual behavior without the same person's consent. The question of how to control such material and how to control child pornography is a complex question, which is dealt with in a controversial bill, which, unfortunately, I don't have the time to cross properly in return, but I encourage everyone to learn about it. I'd like to mention, too, that there's a bill at the highest level. Prime Minister of the same material. This group of people has been blessed with a very rich and good look at those who are concerned about such matters. This bill does not suggest that the number on knowledge about data containing child pornography be removed. Still, when it comes to distributing such things, it is good to keep in mind certain differences. In the case of the permafrost, it is widely distributed material that people like to have the nature of the case, and they enjoy distributing it, while things such as child pornography or violence, substances known to be violent, are something people generally do not want to see and do not want to distribute in general. There is an inner shyness in human society in distributing such material. That makes a big difference. Patriarchal offenses are actually, as I was going over in my speech, committed in an excessive lack of understanding of the legal and righteous foundations of writers, ending complex issues, while something like child pornography or violence is relatively clear, and we can easily learn in our youth that it is wrong and why it is wrong. This will simply not be used so easily, especially because it contains information, in contrast with the 2nd population proposed to be removed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u69	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. I realize that the specific requirement being changed, 2nd paragraph 1. 14th Article 8 of the Treaty, in the case of violations of authorial law. Perhaps that's why this 14th parity is being changed. In most cases, the 15th, 16th, 17th pars. The 18th, 18th, and the 2nd. ...and change the law. Then you wonder about the bill as it did. paritaprevir Hrafn Gunnarsson's shrine spoke of digital sexual abuse, whether to do so, and it may still be possible, even though we are in Leviticus. Environment, request that this case return to the committee now so that the number 4 can be added, which would then be informed of the data containing digital violence. Thus, if the sufferer has gone and charged the matter, he should be informed. If a provider does not immediately remove such materials if they are subject to harm. Do we now have a golden opportunity to end the matter that fell asleep inside a committee by enforcing such a provision?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u70	A respectable president. I don't want to mean that the case is in the sleep of a committee, I expect it to get out of the committee and even be approved or sent to the government. Let's see how it works. No matter what, the case will come out and be approved at some point, I have no doubt about it, although it won't be the bill I presented myself. Here's an important technical point we need to keep in mind when discussing how we're gonna control information on the Internet. I mean, information in a very wide sense. For example, all elements are based on information, including child pornography and violence. We need to find out who we are responsible for. When I was writing my bill, I was very aware of making the right person responsible. The intermediate network cannot be responsible for what is happening on the Internet. There is a need for responsibility, and we place some responsibility, such as. for child pornography and, in fact, according to this bill. There is only a clearer and better demand for what is needed to take up the material, but the intermediate and host members should be or should be completely irresponsible. But we need to remember who is responsible for the material itself. When it comes to digital or graphic sexual abuse, it is important that we not make all the intermediate and host members some kind of police force. It's the wrong party to enforce the law. We may have to do this in some cases, but we should avoid doing so. We are to try to lay responsibility upon those who have committed deliberate and enlightened wrongdoing. When it comes to making an intermediate, hoster, much less network service, responsible for what is placed on the Internet by someone else, it can only be carried out by a rule that significantly reduces the flow of information. And there's the tension I mentioned earlier. [[The president calls.]] It is not obvious, but it is important that we understand the consequences of the free flow of information on communities.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u71	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. I like to listen to the Pirata talk about this subject, they've studied it very well, and they've developed a very interesting viewpoint, especially in the discussion of where the boundaries of the law-enforced authors should lie in a completely different society. On the other hand, I may be concerned with this particular matter, and it turns around, as shown in my previous answers. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy, our campaign legislation, campaign change, we can say, the jets covered by democratic elections around the world that we see more and more examples of. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's opinion and viewpoint. If the bill that all likelihoods are being passed is being given additional or more on the responsibility of the host, it may be clear to them that there is an illegal subject. It says the knife of the cow when it comes to the election law. It's still a little bit still, like we're only doing the 19th century election. We are deeply concerned about propaganda at an elected location, but we have extremely poor resources, penalties, and in terms of the outright bans on the threat of false news and deliberate deception through social media. When I first answered, I wondered, "What is it? The senator's concern? And have a pack of whales. The senator wondered what could help him to cope with that problem?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u72	A respectable president. Hv. A senator brings up a subject that is the basis for a much more extensive discussion and discussion than with this matter quite clearly, as in the exchange of information and our ambition to use the information technology revolution with positive results. It's the problem. It's the problem. It's the problem. An example of how technology develops first is an example of false news, as is sometimes said of, propaganda, or deception on the Internet, is the process of evolution, of society developing slowly, and of long - term legislation. To tell you the truth, I do not understand how to deal with the laws of law. I can't imagine it being possible without going into some really unpleasant question, like they're supposed to be judging what's true and what's not. Don't put it into the hands of the authorities, the democratic elected or not. This should make us think a little bit about how we can contribute to the positive results of online information. Democracy. Like I see this problem basically -- I repeat, there's not enough time to discuss it with any depth, unfortunately. What happened, e.g. When Obama presented himself or Piratar originally, it was that relatively liberal forces came to realize that the Internet existed and started using it for a campaign. Then came the conservatives, who were willing to resort to much dishonest tactics when they suddenly threw the technology into place and began using it completely masked in propaganda and deception, something that the liberal forces were not as willing and unwilling to use. Thus, a certain democracies have entered the information technology revolution. Actually, the democratic court is based on who is willing to use the technology with evil and who is willing to use it for good. That's the problem I can't quite see clearly how we can fix with legislation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u73	Mr. President. I also wholeheartedly agree. Senator. Guð forbids us from having some government organization that should evaluate the truthfulness of the various facts, he established a very dangerous path there. Part of the freedom of expression must always be freedom to lie, but the problem may be further in this case, when it comes to the subject of democratic elections, that it is at least a lie. In that direction it seems to me that the legislation of other countries is beginning to develop, that there is some kind of more information related to who is behind advertising campaigns, that it is recorded in a way that even the least information can be obtained. Facebook has opened up some kind of information about political advertising, including is published clear information on how to spread, what it cost, who paid the bill, etc., which makes it easier to investigate if considered illegal. The reason I'm wondering is just how fine the line is when it comes to free democratic elections and freedom of expression. But at the same time, how we can protect ourselves from abuse. That may really be the point. When we look at the involvement of the Russians with democratic elections, not just in the United States, even in the United States, in the context of Bgret speech and elsewhere, the weakness of democratic communities is being used to address and resist such interference and completely declared. Our first project must be to revise our own election legislation whether it is actually possible, at least. to address and investigate these issues, as the conclusion seemed to be, when a consideration of such interference with the last election was requested, that all resources lacking anyway, and a lack of purpose in the investigation under those circumstances. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u74	A respectable president. When it comes to financing the political parties on their business, I believe in legislation to deal with this matter. However, it is more of a prince's motive than the belief that it will change much. The most clear example is probably from the United States, that it is not only those who are running for advantage by controlling the conclusion of democratic elections. The best example is that of the Russians who used highly sophisticated technology based on artificial intelligence and the Internet to influence, very terrible, on the results of elections to the president of 2016. There may be laws, but we need to realize that there is no solution and will not deliver us. The Russian Secret Service will simply violate Icelandic law and will simply violate American law because it is Russia, it is not America or Iceland. There's one thing I think the lawgiver could do to stop this process, and it's funding and supporting technology that could possibly respond. It is another phenomenon that is called in English, or a deep counterfeit, that, in my opinion, would be much better referred to as motion palaver, which is simply that you can throw the face of one person on another's face and deal with this problem in the discussion of graphic sexual abuse. People today can be adulterated by pornography. I understand that it even seems quite easy. But the technique can be used to combat such counterfeits by training artificial intelligence to identify such frauds. Clearly, such frauds become extremely serious when they are starting to fake political messages, if a politician is allowed to say something else through a motion that is commonly considered as evidence, but he said. It can have a terrible effect on the outcome of elections on entire communities. But artificial intelligence can be trained to spot such things. The hope in this is that people in general want them to be told the truth, so they will generally want to use technology that allows them to separate foolishness from the right. [[The president calls.]] That's the only way I can see, i.e. that the General will support such technological development. I am unclear exactly how it would act differently from financing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u75	Mr. President. It's quite nice here, and it's time to say right from the start that I'm on a committee program about the matter from then on. A financial and business committee that supports that whole mind. In all simplicity, it focuses on sharpening the responsibility of the host when it is clear that this is an illegal activity or information and, in terms of damage-making responsibility, the facts or circumstances are known to make it clear that illegal activities or information are involved, as stated in the accompanying regulations. I think this is important. We need to be able to intervene when it comes to the deliberate distribution of unsolved substances. The question that I have merely wondered about turns to these fundamental concerns when it comes to the future of democratic society. We have clear examples in front of us where it can be said that the results of two very crucial democratic elections in tens and a hundred million countries have been determined by total misuse of community media. One example is the organized intervention between the U.S. Presidential elections, which reach as far back as 2013, that they believe, with organized propaganda that was obviously directed against the other candidate and in support of the others. It has been carefully mapped at the minimum of thousands of false accounts used by organized Russian authorities and reached the eyes and ears of millions if not tens of millions of users on community media and tended to do so, e.g. as well as documentable, hanging when unfortunate cases were encountered by the male candidate in that election, suddenly filled the net with reprisals about Hillary Clinton. The same clearly happened in the Bfenit election, in fact, that the original results of the local authorities say that the U.S.A. election was broken by the no-side in a clear way and it can be said in a way that, in fact, the outcome of such an election should be made over the heads when it comes to clear that one side of the course against the British election law. This is something that must be on our minds. It would be naive for us to conclude that such fellow humans will not be treated here. Our taxes and, to some extent, little influence in the international context, which may further protect us from large - scale interference by foreign states do not change the fact that it can be a serious risk of using national partners, whether political or stakeholders here on a country that can exert financial strength and take place in anonymity with even a highly targeted commercial campaign to influence the outcome of elections. When I look at this case here and see that there is a distinction and a warrant for the intervention of the host when it is clear that there is illegal activity or information in this case, it seems to me that our weakness in campaign law is that there is a considerable lack of law that legislation is sufficiently clear as to what is considered an illegal intervention or intervention of democratic elections and what may not be possible to intervene immediately but that such propaganda is not only allowed to play loosely, so to be found. In fact, we seem to be more concerned by governments that people have some kind of badge when they arrive at a convention than they are spending millions or even tens of millions of dollars on some anonymous propaganda ads that are even spreading pure falsehood. That's why I think it's very important for us at the same time that I celebrate this case and this warrant to look to how we can sharpen our elections so that this new warrant can work for us in the democratic elections for intervention right away. In fact, I also think that there is good reason to revise financial parties, further increase in transparency there, ensure that relationships cannot only be carried on by a number of other landmarks, with a vastly superior figure to support extraordinary contributions, thus clearly breaking against the spirit of the voter, but also, at the same time, to ensure minimal transparency in the same way that we are to protect the freedom of expression and the freedom of people to maintain any kind of bullshit, outright lies if that is right. This is precisely this with the very nature of freedom, with responsibility and responsibility, of course, is none if the claims are not readily understood. Then people can hide from total irresponsibility, anonymousness, and nothing to freedom of expression. It must be our fundamental requirement, especially when it comes to statements in democratic elections, that it is clear who is responsible for the claims made, who financed the advertisements being published, etc. Of course, it is true what we had discussed earlier, that we will find it difficult to get our tails on foreign agents who want to violate our campaign laws, but by making clear legal decisions by sharpening the law code on how democratic elections should be held here on land, we can at least stop the release of materials that violate these principles. When we see that, of course, the absolute key to defending the freedom of expression is, of course, a key element that governments at any given time do not have some kind of censorship on what is said in connection with democratic elections, i.e. that if they choose to do so, be absolutely clear who is bringing such false news on the table, who is making an attempt to lie to the public, so that the other hand of the same freedom of expression is possible to direct their spears to the origin of the conversation. Seeing our ambitions in such things as, for example, in the face of extreme frustration is completely annoying and frustrating. These events in the last and last elections, where we saw quite pure and complete performance in this direction. Although I'm not going to stand here and claim that these developments had some decisive effect on the outcome of the election, it was still quite unpleasant to observe, of course, if we are to prevent this from becoming an even more serious problem in the country's elections at hand. We can take into account that the exchange of these democratic elections in our neighboring countries has been increasing rather than the rest of our life, and let us not become romantically aware of anything but that the same trend will be here in our country. I really hope that we will succeed in making sure that when we re-election, which will be expected at the latest in 2021, this government will succeed in enduring the terms of the reign, that we will then be ready to do so and have passed through the legal frame surrounding this so that the arrangements of this fine case could help us in our fight against false news and completely abnormal propaganda and ensure that those behind it simply need to reveal who they are, or that the distribution of such propaganda can be stopped. I don't think a surprising election-law approach to make the minimum requirement that those who choose to use their expression freedom in a campaign are subject to their responsibility by making it clear and official who they are, how advertising campaigns are financed, whether they hear e.g. ... underpolicesof political parties and their financing and how we stand for democratic elections. At the same time, I think it's absolutely important to revise the election laws. I'm a little more worried about this than a bad election year at a voter's place by the fact that candidates may have forgotten to take the badge out of their jackets when they walked in. This is the real threat facing democratic communities, and it should not be treated lightly. Experience simply shows that democracy is in grave danger over this, and we have, thanks to such cohesors, including A president in one of the largest democratic states in the world who seems to have absolutely no respect for democracy itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u76	A respectable president. Hv. In opposition to this point, a senator now spoke in his talk about freedom to lie and a little connection with anonymity, which is also an important right and a firm defense against various sources and authorities, being able to promote his views without a reference to teaching or just based on the reasoning itself and not by who does. The freedom to lie is a big hobby of mine. I studied in the United States, and a man surely experienced that some people had much more freedom to lie than here. There was much less concentration on what was being said in advertising, which was just a lie. As a result, you ask: Who has the right to lie? Subjects, enterprises, recruiters, media label with distribution of materials. [[The president calls.]] That's where this bill comes in. The media that distributes material is like false news where we also have a business, e.g. You know, a drawer company that doesn't have a name. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There are laws that are getting in our way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u77	The president asks why. Councilmen showing respect for the deadline. They're one minute to counter this traffic.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u78	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. These are interesting speculations. I completely agree with the point of view. Senator, this is a very fine line. Freedom to be seen in the covert of anonymous names is a very important freedom and must be protected if they are to need it. This may be for several serious reasons, but it is an enormous part of democratic society. I am primarily considering this line when it comes to the organized distribution of materials in connection with democratic elections. I don't believe that the identity of the person who spreads it doesn't work on the right to unveil. For example, individuals can always communicate to the media. [[The president calls.]] The media are responsible to find out what is behind them before going to an organized media report about the person.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u79	A respectable president. Boris Johnson is being reported as forming a lie about Bgret and very difficult to refute. I've watched in court that a woman standing in front of a judge said that she stopped at red light and had a photo that turned on its brake lights for proof, but then when the video was played and saw how she drove onto red light, she continued to point out the picture and say, "No, there was a brake light there, so I stopped. The car, however, had obviously never stopped. Despite seeing in front of her face what really happened, she repeatedly refused. This is what I think is the situation we're dealing with, that, despite obvious lies, they somehow get away with this kind of compromise in the shelter of freedom of expression, I don't know how. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's too short to talk about such a complicated matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u80	I agree with what. Senator, this is a very short time to discuss such a deep subject of opinion. We always talk about the responsibility that should come with freedom of speech, that freedom of expression is certainly a responsibility, and that we can be held accountable for our words, perjury, etc. Whether politicians are protected by any form of expression if they are deliberately deceiving the common people is a matter of concern. Aren't we violating our basic duties in a democratic society if we commit such a crime? That's what I'd think. Whether it is criminal or not, it is clear that politicians who use such devices are responding to their duties toward democratic communities. Trust will never be relied upon democratic communities in the same way that politicians show minimal honesty. That's why I'm very interested that Boris Johnson is being prosecuted for pure and direct lies, hoping that the truth will be revealed in that lawsuit. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u81	Mr. President. I wanted to come up here to thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for his speech and for his discussion in this discussion. These were very important points. A senator came in. I'll just start with that as long as possible. A senator mentions having a badge in his bosom at a vote. There was a lot of attention in the last conversation about the elections. A senator took his child into the booth, which attracted a great deal of attention and was even accused of violating the campaign law. So I'd like to ask you why. The senator how he sees how the Icelandic election laws can be changed in order to deal with such discussions as those in Britain associated with Bgret, and we see, as well, today in this Senate Hall, with a discussion on the third energy package. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u82	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I think it's very important that we make these changes. I wonder, for example. In this discussion with me about the latest badge sign whether it's not just as much or more protruding at the vote when a famous politician shows up to vote, he's just as big as the badge he could carry in his jacket. I always think it's a bit Colombian that we're going to have some big worry about this, that I'm going to be able to change my mind in front of the ballroom because I saw someone walk with the Union's badge in my jacket. At the same time, we are just as anxious about these threats. I think it's minimal that when it comes to political intervention in elections, we ensure transparency, who's meddling in elections that all of us still have full freedom to. I think only the minimum if stakeholders start using themselves in some organized way, by buying targeted advertising campaigns that it is perfectly clear who is behind them so that the parties can also be answered. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u83	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. There's exactly one thing I'm wondering over there, first of all, what it really is, a surreal state at an elected place with the marks verse just that the person presenting will be at an elected place, etc. Then there are always local media to take pictures of when certain candidates put their bill in the box. Is that a violation of the campaign law? So you can wonder. But by the way, I wanted to spend the second mainly in discussing that when you go to campaigns in connection with elections, etc. is often claimed to be what has been called false news or, in fact, being lying to people. Counts 'em out. A senator that you might react to it somehow, e.g. by establishing a facts department? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u84	A respectable president. A discussion of facts always brings us to the weak state of the media in this country, especially a weak financial situation, and we need to do what we can to strengthen their position. There is no greater force in democratic communities than just free and varied media. Hopefully, such facts will still intensify their propaganda. But when it comes to the distribution of false stories, I think the minimum requirement is that it's clear who's spreading. It makes it easier for both the public to evaluate some truth in their values, but it also makes it easier for the fact that both the truth and the more important things are, the source or the source of the news. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u85	Mr. President. First and foremost, I wanted to agree with it. While it is said of the importance of this massive political abuse, a senator firmly warns in the context of this bill that it is tried to place responsibility on the exchange for communication. Let us do this in another way. If murder were committed in a rented home, no one would think of blaming the landlord. If a car from a rental car was used as an escape vehicle in a bank robbery, no one would think of blaming the rental. Making a very broad responsibility to host a host when it is used as the mediators of various fractures is very dangerous, not only because it is a class breaker, but also because it places responsibility on the wrong site. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u86	President. Thank you. A senator resists. I couldn't agree more. A senator, I may have thought of this primarily in the context of the second addition to the legislation that we are dealing with, which I am and what I am. A member of the body gathers at committee partying. Clearly, I don't think the way to fight a coup is to further tighten that law, but perhaps rather on the basis of the law we are discussing here, and to agree, to sharpen our election law that we have the authority to direct it to the host to stop the distribution of certain materials, it against the election law. It seems to me that we have a weakness. We have very limited rights, simply because our campaign legislation, as mentioned well, is likely decades behind the development of social media in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u87	Mr. President. I agree that there are a lot of things that could be changed into the election law, and not just what it is about, but election law is something politicians always want to be in. Even if we do not place the responsibility for the violation of hosts, we may in some way get closer to caring for the obligation to give e.g. information in very specific cases, both in order that it is not too burdensome but also in order to be moderate and to guard against personal protection and other factors. The other, which is also fine and was mentioned earlier in part, is a project such as FactorStream that a nice acquaintance of mine, Bill Adair, runs for Duke University, where they try to deal with the truth by using the knowledge that exists in society. Of course, we must support such projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u88	Mr. President. Thank you. A member of the council these thoughts. This is the point. This is of interest regarding increased efforts to make facts interesting. Of course, it would be wish we could just drive, for example. A 150-hour discussion about the energy package through some form of artificial-agreement testing or crew and received some percentage of how much this long discussion was based on facts and what it was not. This is a problem in political discussions, and of course it is a problem when politicians allow themselves to decorate facts, even obvious facts, in a way as unpredictable as we see an endless example of what we may do with such a fact-mongering to fight. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u89	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. All I want to do is touch one thing he could do in his language about the freedom of expression in elections and where the line really stands when a town's interest groups are fighting for their own interests and even the interests of certain political parties or politicians. This is a discussion that takes place worldwide, and history shows, of course, that what happens in the great world also happens here. I'm a little worried about that, as a matter of course. For example, a senator, when speaking of anonymous groups on the Internet, with questionable claims or outright falsehood. I think this will reduce both the value of democracy and the belief in democracy. I wondered, " How can I respond better? ' I think it's a problem that'll get worse, and maybe we should do it before we fall into the election in over a year or at any time. [[The president calls.]] It's a problem that I think all classes would have to come together and try to eliminate in one way or another, that these ◯fake news and trolls won't do everything here as we can see elsewhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u90	Mr. President. First, the involvement of stakeholders with democratic elections involves what rules or restrictions we would like to set for financial matters, both political parties and the funding of a campaign like that, a sponsor. I'd always appreciate it, especially when you look at American politics, if it was possible to prevent the existence of stakeholders or businesses from holding high on political parties or very low financial resources. I don't think it's a natural approach to democratic elections, much rather that we deal with political funding and campaigns in another way. The transparency is always key, and it is, of course, completely annoying that even for a considerable amount of money, you can run anonymous campaigns without making any clear who's behind it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u91	Mr. President. I always find it so interesting that we didn't set political classes laws until 2006. Imagine what it was like years ago. It was the wild West, and it was so oscillating that it offered a great deal of atheism and suspicion. Of course, there are laws that we would need to revise regularly. I'll agree with what you're saying. Senator on the importance of a state of transparency. We'll see as if, for example. In the United States, a country as strong as ever. A senator spoke of, in what kind of conflict there are politics, including because, in effect, cohesive interests, money, and politicians are perfect, so to speak. It is a hell that is indeed to be avoided, and so this, of course, is related to this problem when here there are anonymous groups that are fighting in a questionable way for certain interests or political parties. We saw this sparkling last election and I think this is just the smell of butter to come, unfortunately, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u92	President. I couldn't agree more. Senator. The problem is, I'm not talking about in our little community, it's not a problem running a political campaign for a total election for 5 to 10 million. It is not a problem to find out in the media. An introduction through community media, etc. makes it very easy for us to approach voters. The problem, however, begins if the rules of the game are such that some categories have the means to spend tens of millions or even more. If we raise the threshold as such in order to get the extent of the campaign, all classes will be pressed up. That's what we've seen happen in the United States, where the funding has simply taken over the elections, from the reelection or preselection, and through the campaign itself. There is no way to take part in a campaign there in a country that is different from having a lot of very rich people behind them. [[The president calls.]] It is good always to remember that the voting rights lie with the individual, not with companies or stakeholders. It's the essence of democracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u93	A respectable president. We here discuss very important matters, and its fragrances spread throughout the community, as shown in the discussions, into false news, freedom of expression, our election laws, and the like. The key issue in this matter is that anyone, as technology is now installed, can run a medium in the cover of anonymous secrets. In fact, it is the absolute form of freedom of expression that anyone could become an anonymous medium. The issue is then anonymity, for people cannot be held accountable for what they say, but freedom of expression is not a matter of anyone being able to say anything anywhere. Anonymity is more widespread because while anonymity was removed from the Internet, we would still have anonymity in the corporate environment, such as shell companies, fictitious governments, and such. A good example that everyone should know is Windris. Piratar and I have a bill for increasing access to annual accounts and shareholders file that would still not be enough to cope with this. In this environment, certain primary responsibilities are that those who are registered must have full responsibility and that of a secret owner cannot be behind them. If a private person comes up, or if those fake managers decide to sell the company and take all the money from it themselves, someone can come and say, "Hey, I'm sorry about this. You can write down some kind of secret documents behind contracts that are not reported and that are actually hidden from property. That's what we deal with in terms of company namelessness and the like, and it only has to do with the false stories that we can't trace who's responsible when it comes to them. The lack of anonymity, however, is a defense to the spy. It prevents a reference to teaching that doesn't matter who you are, just what you say. Anonymity is e.g. used in the United States, when the author of articles under cover names. There may be good reasons for individuals to have anonymity, but I can't think of any instance in which anonymity is a good reason for a company or advising, which says that people other than individuals. This bill is only about host responsibility in the case we deal with here, i.e. Their limited responsibility. Hystians have limited responsibility for the material applied to the computers they have under their control. If a person puts illegal material there, the host host is less responsible to check whether everything on his hard drive, in the discussion or in the comments of a host's community medium is illegal or not. This is ironic in connection with recent cases at the European Parliament, where 13. This was so called on, which has become the 15th or 17th paragraph. - It was originally 13. which dealt with filters that are obliged to be supplied with specific warnings about size and ways, but they should consider whether or not the material placed on their servers is a violation of the Author's rights. So we're getting to the site where it's the person who's responsible for it, not the host. I guess it's gonna come back later, and we're going to have to protect ourselves from this conclusion in the near future, which is a little interesting. Well considered in the Committee, I refer to it. We live in this strange arrangement, where the fact is that in general intelligence is being tried as hard as possible to get away with. State do, Russia, China, America, etc., the big giants. We know that, because Snowden enlightened about it, that nothing has changed there. There's absolutely nothing that says there's anything different now. The purpose is not necessarily to spy on whether a crime is being committed, not necessarily, it must have been doing the same. They're also spying just to learn, e.g. in the case of Cambridge Analytica, who learned, in effect, what motivated people to participate or who was driving them to fear, to what fear they could play. They wondered how a neighborhood in an area where homeowners own a dog or a large car. If those conditions are met, a special brochure should be knocked on the door and the right householder. On the other hand, if a house in the same neighborhood meets other specific conditions, you would pass on another brochure that plays on a certain fear or doubt or something that moves people to change their mind or to feel even more certain. It's very tight how hard a person can maintain his opinion in spite of all the evidence he had just as I came up against it. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Víglundsson here. A woman was before a judge who was accused of crossing a road to red light, because she had failed to recognize the right to stop. She watched herself run over to a red light on a video but said, despite that: No, I stopped. The brake lights started. The car never stopped, he drove on without stopping, the brake lights just started off because it slowed down. The video was shown over and over again, but the woman's drive to red light always paralyzed. It is remarkable how hard we hold on to this denial, how we rebel for acknowledging mistakes or injustices for a long time. There's nothing easy about it, not at all. We're wrestling with it in this, as I said, that in general there is been a spy as much as you can get away with it. During the spring of Arabic, the Facebook was an enormously effective means for Protestants to organize themselves and communicate. Soon thereafter, as I know, they moved on to safer relationships. This was done in the Occupy organization, U.S.A., with information from the FBI. The FBI had marked certain individuals, certain peaceful Protestants, as ◯domastic terrostrists, or as civil terrorists in the bourgeois sense. These peaceable Protestants were trying to communicate with one another without the authorities being able to observe their organization. On the other hand, authorities want to observe such relationships in order to prevent real terrorists, not just those who are peaceful Protestants, although they represent them as terrorists. The challenge has been that with this spy, civil rights under national security have been tried. These methods are used and always go further. In fact, we have an example of this in Iceland from a police report in Iceland during the agricultural revolution of certain anarchists being followed. There's nothing different about it. We're not any less innocent in this regard than Snowden informed about this year. Linked to the host's responsibility and to counter lies, the identity of the lie has been discussed as to who is responsible for lying placed on the medium of host or where it is. Is it the host yourself or the person who brings the material out? And who is responsible for informing on who put the relevant materials in, etc.? The freedom to lie about this is, of course, part of the freedom of expression. It is always a question of who has the freedom to lie and for what purpose. A person can say whatever he wants. True, he has a certain responsibility for his words in certain cases. There may be many lies that affect different interests, and some stakeholders have the right to defend themselves rather than others, but they may not. Do companies have the right to lie to people in advertising? Do political groups have the right to lie to people in advertising or in campaigns or elsewhere? Have rulers the right to lie or hide, e.g. putting reports under a chair or in a drawer for elections? I'm about to say it happened before the 2016 election. A report on the property of the Icelanders in the tax industry was in progress before the General went home, and the secretary of finance decided not to publish a report for the election knowing that the election was about the property of the Icelanders. He reveals that he didn't want to put his report into a campaign relationship despite the election's involvement. Afterward, he said: "No, the report was not yet completed. He explained that after he received the report, the General's talk program said that the report was about to appear. There's something that I definitely think about the responsibility of those in charge in the matter of deception. That's something I would like to see the court come together because of it. I haven't been in a pit where it's a real conflict in going that way within the council. In this case, I consider a minister as a certain host at all. He has data to which he is responsible, prefers not to publish it. I don't think it's anything like an example. There are special laws that the secretary should provide information on public interest as soon as possible, without delay. When it comes to a minister who does not have freedom of speech and freedom of expression, he has a responsibility. In this case, we are talking about the conflict between individuals who have freedom of expression in a much wider way than those who have to live up to their word, whose words are far more responsible than a person who makes a very interesting picture of the diversity of the freedom of expression, and how he or she is in different circumstances. This is something I would be very interested in talking more about. I may come to that again in another speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u94	Mr. President. Thank you. Björn A great deal for the speech is the wife of Gunnarsson. This has been a very interesting subject, both of which have been discussed. The senator as well as the above. I'm not really technical, I don't know the technical basis for this case. What interests me and scares me, virtually both at the same time, are so widespread. They are extremely communicative. This involves so much fundamental changes if bodies in our society and can go in different directions that we like. We can use this for the benefit of democracy, for a better community, but we can also lose our grip on it, and it's done well in speeches, especially since then. Senator. What I'm wondering is -- we're a little tamed when we talk about this, at least. Those of us who discuss this a bit shallow, that technology has to do this and that, that the others and these things need to be fixed on technology and keep the other thing in check, and that this doesn't happen, etc. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agrees with me in this, or can he merely tell us whether we are possible in the emphasis of forgetting the importance of getting into the education system and all training how we deal with this new way? Just to adopt the old concept of critical thinking, to put it a little higher in all colleges, from preschool to every unit of college. That people don't really go to society without knowing, learning, and knowing what it means. I'd be very interested, because I know why. A senator has done a lot of research, to learn how he feels about this approach.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u95	A respectable president. This is a very good indication that modern - day criticism must understand technology. There is something that has not needed so much before. Indeed, technology has been improved in recent centuries, which gradually comes into the sense that people have of just a certain sense of reason. What we've been adding over the past 10 to 20 years is the speed of technology change, and that's something we don't really know how to handle. In fact, human society has always been extremely reluctant to change, and very little has resulted in changes other than some human ideologies. For people to come to a new continent, where there is suddenly a land full of free land, they create new ideologies based on how they were before settlers came from Europe to the United States. It created new ideologies, not technology in that way. We really forget the human factor about this. Yes, indeed, we are running a little bit, but we have to understand it, and I think it's the easiest thing we could start with is a measure of facts, which is very common in larger countries and has been tried to come up here, but we've never been able to. I don't know if we're too small and interest - related to a community that, regardless of the facts, could be reassuring or where we're at it. I think some kind of fact watch could be a very necessary start point.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u96	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. I agree, this is for me one of the more interesting points in all of this. We've been talking a lot about voters and information there, that technologies, at least In word, there are ways to simplify their daily lives. But in the end, it has probably been most likely, at least, the technology that has been talking about here today, had a significant impact on the lives of voters to live up to the responsibility of being participants in a democratic community. So this is an enormous issue. I'd like to go back to the minefield because of it. A senator spoke a great deal about the freedom of expression, an essential aspect of all of this. I think it is very important to us wherever we stand in the political arena to make sure that there is no more predictable and sometimes easier way to stop it too much. So I would like to hear thoughts from you. A senator, because I think that with considerable confidence, we can claim that the main representatives of the freedom of expression we know and want to protect today may not see this world in the first place. Freedom of speech was at one time intended for the underdog to stand up against the ruling forces and to be criticized, to make demands that do not result in the life and limb of the individual, etc. We may be, at least in our part of the world now, dealing with a little more of the other activities of freedom of expression, especially with these technologies. It's not exactly a question, but I'd like to hear a question. A senator, because I know that he has predicted a great deal about this, what the leaders of the concept of freedom of expression at the time would feel about the false news, the spread of society, and the irresponsibleness of today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u97	A respectable president. There have always been people who abuse society's game rules, and they'll always be. Impartiality could always be abused and can always be abused. It's just a question of what kind of tools and tools are being added to those who want to abuse their anonymousness, as important as it is. We can't take the completely anonymous possibility out of it. That is certainly true even today. But to understand how it can be abused in a changing environment is part of what we need to take into consideration in order to recognize it when it is being abused. I think the former supporters of anonymity and how it was used would simply not understand how it is used today, since in general we do not really understand it. We are still trying to learn, and some know better than others. Understanding such factors is slower than learning, or they say how to misuse it. Once everyone or most people have learned how to abuse it, it will not work as well as it will have to find new methods, etc. So it is an ongoing arms race in the misuse of existing resources and guidelines and to teach them in critical terms to identify this abuse. It is a constant battle, and as a result, there is definitely a much greater emphasis in changing society and technically on critical thinking. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u98	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is eager for his speech and an attempt to explain to us his opinion on this excellent bill. Of course, we have not been part of a wide range of false stories on the Internet, false stories when even political parties offer something in the shelter of anonymity or under artificial access, artificial applications, or artificial societies. One thing is very important to me now when we talk about such determined violations, which cannot be reached by the individual, we do not know who is a real person behind the fracture. I'm just going to take it out of the way when it is a determined violation of political and political parties in many parts of the world to create false news or spread false information. I want to go over to more serious things as if being distributed information that could be a real threat to national security, distributing information that is a real threat to individuals, distributing data as I talked to you earlier. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy by e.g. Severe sexual abuse, vendettas, or anything like that. [[The president calls.]] Where is the responsibility of the one holding such material and helping with the distribution?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u99	A respectable president. The answer is not enormously simple, but at the same time for the last one, it is very simple when it is quite clear where the material is, who has it, and clearly the law that it is illegal. Then the host is responsible to remove it because it has been passed through a sentence, a ruling, and so on. What you're hiding, e.g. This is the procedure where courts aren't passed, etc. You might set up a similar example, such as that someone could have said, "There's child pornography. " But that's not true. These materials would have disappeared without any ruling provider being involved and would have a potentially negative effect on the host and/or medium that published it. There is an accusation about a serious crime that disappeared, and they are left standing to defend themselves after the charge, not in the right process, which is, in fact, guilty after but not innocent in advance. I think that's the key difference between what's being changed in this bill and what's going on. A senator is pointing out the responsibility of the host to the issues that have obviously taken place in the correct process where this goes through courts and decision, etc., which is exactly what we're trying to do with this, establish the right shape so that there's a certain burden of evidence going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u100	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. What I wondered about, because of what. A senator spoke of a court order, is that such a system is extremely suspended. It was earlier that the importance of promoting critical thinking was discussed, and I agree wholeheartedly with it. In fact, there should be a special subject in high school and high school, and it is surprising that this is not the case even if it is being developed into a variety of social studies or activities or what it is called. However, we would also need to make room for such study responsibilities. That's what I want to throw up, the responsibility, that you can't be a host of service, but I'm willing to take some responsibility if someone points to something. If the sufferer's actions reveal that the person is suffering and wishes to be taken out, it is really sufficient and conclusive proof that he does not want it in there. In particular, I think of the individuals who have been subjected to digital pornography, a digital sexual offense, as they are called, who have had to endure an image that is extremely humiliating. I'd love to see us try to work on it somehow. I would have quite liked to see such a change in income into the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u101	A respectable president. We should be aware that each host can completely establish his own user instructions. He has a meeting board in his area and has taken the full initiative to remove whatever the host wants to remove from the area according to its rules, regardless of the rights, judicial procedures, or something like that. This is partly the host's conference room. He has perfect rights when it comes to material that enters the Terms and the like to have its meeting regime and say: No, not this subject, and: Yes, this subject. If the person disagrees with this, nothing can be said because he does not own the area. He has the freedom to establish his own territory and put material in there. Then there is the responsibility that I previously attributed that there is a specific transparency in the owner and is responsible as a host. There are exactly a drawer company and stuff that you can hide behind, so you may not know who the owner is and can't trace to who runs the relevant material. It's a problem we have to deal with in another place in general, with a drawer company and the similar. There's been a slight delay in this scene that causes tension between them. It should never normally be a problem for a host who, in good faith, imparts information to him about improper material that he completely removes from his own rules but not from the law which the host would normally want to follow, only with certain caution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u102	A respectable president. I'm going to continue on a brief discussion of this matter, about changing the law on electronic business and other electronic services, the limited responsibility of the host. The bill involves changing 14th paragraph. track No. 30/2002, electronic business and other electronic services. 14th degree. It is mandatory to the host on data and services to remove material for a certain reason. It is worth considering just how the load of evidence is handled. There are three numbers. The first is if the host has been informed that the businessman has imposed a law against the hosting of the data or that they have been misdirected, or if the host has received access, or if the host has received an announcement in case of an alleged violation against the author's law and the third person has been informed of the data containing child pornography. The bill involved here does not remove the 2nd party but changes it so that the host needs to have a direct knowledge that there is an illegal function or information about damage to the work and that he or she is aware of the facts or circumstances so that it can be identified as an illegal activity or information. This is quite a tribulation in the present system of things. I think it is worth referring to the priorities of the past because of the 3rd issue of child pornography and the need to know about it. It requires that the host be aware of the need for child pornography. And according to the previous number, in the case of bans or data decided by the court to remove, this should also be known. In the second number of the current law, there is no need to know. You just need to be notified of an alleged fracture, not to know that the fracture has been committed, but to get a report from the court of the court that the alleged offense has taken place, or not. It's not supposed to be that way. They should be tighter, as per this bill, where the person needs to have the information that is natural, even when it comes to child pornography, let alone a misdemeanor. This is how hosting people are essentially questionable, and they are essentially a little dangerous. We may need them, and they may be legitimate and legitimate, but they have a fault that they can greatly discriminate against possible services. For example, a Web site called Wikipedia is widely used. This is based directly on the fact that anyone can upload data and install some pages. There's some kind of self-writer control there, i.e. Those who have more experience on the web actually look for the editor, but any person can change any subject or almost any material on Wikipedia with unique exceptions in their case. I'm thinking, for example. that the Donald Trump article must get a little more editorial than others, that there are things people want to say about a person who may not be directly facts but still has the genuine conviction of many. Wikipedia wasn't always big and not always a lot of money. Wikipedia was only a small experiment project. The same could be said of YouTube, who wasn't always big. Facebook wasn't always big. This began somewhere as a small project, and what these tissues share is that they rely on their success in that private users in a town can install material. When such companies are placed on duty or are somehow responsible for what is being housed by those who may again be needed, this may reduce the possibility of growing rapidly and providing for a service that is revolutionary, such as Wikipedia was a revolutionary website in the distribution of knowledge. I fear that if the power of justice had gotten all its success in the law, Wikipedia would not exist, if it had been established at the time where such laws were in effect. This is what we need to keep in mind whenever we set laws. It's not a trump that makes all the other arguments out of the table. It is important to have legislation on the distribution of information, but this is a thing that is often forgotten when we talk about information on the Internet, especially in the context of an emotional discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u103	Mr. President. I just wanted to come here for a moment and to mention the dangers in the light of what happened. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir tore here. I'd like to mention the dangers involved in extending too much responsibility for the host's irresponsibility. There is a limited responsibility today for hosting subjects because understanding is that it is important that hosts are not drawn into issues they are completely neutral toward. There is a tendency when people are dealing with something as complex as the Internet and because it is complicated to have hands in the hair of those who are really responsible for things, whether it is the threat of terrorism, digital sexual abuse, or hatred, in an effort to reflect on the responsibility of the host because it is easy. This is a form of shooting the messenger. I'm going to make it clear that this is not what it is. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir was offering, but I started thinking about it in the light of her further statement about digital sexual abuse, and I just wanted to make this decision. In the general justice system, we distinguish between those who commit an act and those who are very indirectly involved. Although murder is committed in a rented house, the landlord is not responsible. Although a borrowed car is used to escape after a bank robbery, the owner of the car is not responsible. It is always the one who takes the action that is responsible. Clearly, the Internet has a tendency to hide its trail, and in many cases it is desirable that people can hide where they are. The Internet, given its ease, has become a powerful tool for human rights struggles, for opposing a fasician government, or like to rise in defense of democratic rights and ideals. Sometimes it is difficult to keep hands in the hair of the right person when the law is broken. We are not as a community to find out where the balance is supposed to be. Besides, there's a problem that code studies don't care about politics. Physics is just a mathematical way to hide information, and it can be said by political choice that cryptology should work only when judging another. It doesn't work like that. Mathematics is not too much to bow to court decisions. Somewhere else, we need to draw this line. I don't know exactly where to do this, but until we have a deeper understanding of it, I think we should, in any case, avoid the temptation to consider the responsibility of someone who can be bonded, just because it's easy. It doesn't lead to good laws, I don't think it would be a law to put responsibility there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u104	Mr. President. Here is an interesting subject for a discussion that has to do with many aspects of our modern life. I'd like to move on a little bit from where it was left off. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy closed, which is what I've been pointing to today and rolling over, i.e. The responsibility of the host. 14th par. the law on electronic business and other electronic services is about limitation of responsibility for hosting. It shows that a provider who provides information from a service provider is not responsible for it being removed or prevented from getting access to them immediately after he has received it, as stated in Article 1. With the bill, change number 2 on 1 mg. 14th par. So that he would say, by permission of the President: ▪ Direct knowledge that there is illegal activity or information and, in the case of damage, the facts or circumstances are known to make it clear that illegal activities or information are involved. Count 3 14r. The law says, by permission of the President: ◯ A awareness of data including paediatric pornography I understand very well that the host should not be responsible for the material as a host, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy said that the landlord of the apartments where homicides are responsible for the killing. It's not like that. However, I wondered when it is clear that a violation is committed, that is direct knowledge. It makes you wonder if 1. The bill, to be number two, number 1. 14th ...., will protect those who have to endure some kind of suffering. We have no shelter in the 3rd, that's child pornography. We all agree that this is wrong. But I don't think we're making another kind of defense. We say that the person is not responsible for the data he is hosting if he removes or prevents access to them immediately after being told that there is an illegal activity or information. Then we must be talking about, for example. sale of illegal goods, huh? Is that what we're talking about? Are we talking about after the host receives information about the fact that other people are being sold? Is that enough? I think it's very important that the host and all of us get information about our responsibility, that we don't just let things stand unconcerned and without comments in case of a gross violation of individual freedom, against personal and privacy. Of course, the 1st team speaks of the death of judgment, but I'm concerned about the way the justice system is and the excessive hovering of it. The 3rd issue, which refers to data containing child pornography, does not require any execution of judgment or the county's execution of data. It is only a decision that children's pornography is such a violation that if a host does not remove it immediately, it is somehow responsible. So I wondered, " Do I have to protect more groups than just children, even though pornography is one of the most shameful crimes anyone can commit? ' I don't think there's anything that can be excluded from all responsibility and that's so wide that you can actually hide it from just about anything. I'm very much in favor of freedom of expression, and that is among basic human rights. This does not change the fact that we also have the whole system of laws and regulations that are violated every day, laws and regulations designed to protect individuals, lives, personal freedom, privacy, and health. That's what we've decided to do. We covered earlier in the winter on a very thin bill, in my opinion, the highest. the local Minister of Justice, who was making changes in a penal code regarding a hate speech. In that discussion, we were discussing this distinction between freedom of expression and the need to defend minorities from verbal possession, hatred speech, hurtful speech. Of course, we are talking about such hurtful words that they actually hurt. Here we are in the same place, perhaps we're talking there about protecting not just from words but, like, words. Dignity of sexual abuse. Such experiences, we know, have led people to their own lives. It's too serious, and because the Internet is everywhere and distribution of materials against the will of an individual, degrading material, I think the lawgiver should step in and do everything he can to protect the individual. I fully understand why we have the 3rd issue of this article that especially concerns children's pornography because it is individuals who can't feed themselves or as good as children in these horrible circumstances. I think we should, however, have been dealing with this case on the committee to see if we would need to take more individuals in there and take into account more circumstances without any violation of the freedom of expression, which is very important. I just want to discuss the importance of teaching the public. This has been the subject of false news today, actually presenting false information for some purpose, e.g. ... inconsistency. It was much discussed before the last election and the highest. A prime minister was shocked at the false that she wanted to raise taxes. It struck the nation's ears as an election, spread by individuals then thought to be behind the second ruling class here. I don't know anything about that. There's something in the discussion. In this regard, I would like to agree with what has been said about the importance of strengthening the critical thinking of young people, but we also need to strengthen the consciousness of young people and adults about the responsibility of putting material on the Internet, distribution, distribution of false information, and distribution of material that is damaging to others. I don't think we're threatening our freedom of expression by trying to strengthen people's consciousness because they don't walk so close to people that they don't feel comfortable on earth as we were talking about digital sexual abuses. I think the Lawgiver's role is just trying to protect individuals, we try as we can to create the knots in this technologically designed world that we provide a measure of protection and security, at least. While we have not taught people to feel responsible and to be responsible for their actions and words in this technological age.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u105	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying things with what's happened. A senator's concern on how important it is that we make the most of it. As a result, technology is producing and absorbing technology. One of the things technology has taken away from us in matters like this is the ability to be absolutely sure of how to behave things. It was, of course, simpler before the G - host thing came into existence. The reason why I wouldn't be so quick to expand this project and remove laws in the way suggested in the bill is that in some respects it means removing the evidence as soon as the material is taken out of print. It may be possible to sort it out and to place it in various ways, but one of the reasons that has been criticized for the pampering of the directive 2000/31/EC is that it is mandatory to remove such materials, but it is not placed on the host to report that such material has been found, although it is certainly to be done under other laws. There's a point where different interests come together, and I think it's better for the project that we just walk a little slower. Of course, in certain cases, rapid work is needed, but this balance is important.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u106	Mr. President. Thank you. When a senator says that this was certainly simpler before becoming a host, he agrees with him. Of course, it was all so much simpler before we invented the Internet, and it could have been a little simpler before people started talking and recording. I'm very glad the Internet came up, and I'm also very glad that there are hosts and we have to create some kind of game rules for all of this. I agree to some extent to go slow and find a certain balance, but we're winning this now, and we've talked about, for example. Dignified sexual abuse, of course not the only one. We are also talking about national security data, which are equally important. What happens if a host is identified as hosting data that are actually a threat to national security? He just says, "I don't know who that belongs to, and I don't trust myself to take it out. I feel like I can't. Where, then, are we? I think we should just have the guts to take a step and put such a obligation on the host, but at the same time, of course we should inform the government that such materials are being removed like child pornography and other things.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u107	Mr. President. In terms of national security, we have natural examples that a host in a certain sense published information, and it was certainly known where they came from. You can, for example. Call the Pentagon documents back in time. You could also talk about Afghanistan and Iraq and the war papers I have a considerable knowledge of. It is very serious how much war crime was being concealed, national security was used as a reason for hiding war crimes in all of these cases. We have to watch out for that. However, in this bill, in order to be clearly identified, it does not limit the ability or the speed of speech in situations where owner or rightholder of the material announces authory, rather than guarantees - it is difficult to guarantee it, but at any rate, it is less likely to reduce the possibility of a third party to report something as a author's pregnancy, which is not. There is a harmony between these two judges where the state has a national security issue that doesn't do it and when some people use it to censor it on the basis of a penalties, that's natural. In any case, it's about achieving a balance because we don't remove things that should not be removed but remove what needs to be removed. [[The president calls.]] It is, of course, difficult to solve.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u108	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Toward the end of the second answer, I realized that I can be understood as an evil guardian. Suddenly, I felt a little overwhelmed. It was even to be understood that it was normal for individuals to just rush in and say: " Remove, remove, remove, remove everything I don't like. ' We know exactly where it's going. Of course, there is great danger. I don't like that opinion. It is right there that the debate over the change in the penal code of hate speech became, i.e. The difference between freedom of opinion and trying to stem hatred speech that encourages illegal conduct, etc. I also see how this is so in their specific examples, where the alleged national security is being concealed in the face of war crimes. It's something, too. You can understand that they need a court order or something, but I'm still a little worried that it's easy to get a branded court order in certain states where governments have placed their judges, possibly against the law, without proper reason, without following the rules. [[The president calls.]] It's happening around the world, and it's even closer to us than we thought it might happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u109	A respectable president. I'm impressed. A senator speaks of freedom of expression on a very Icelandic scale. Sadly, this is not a compliment because Iceland is not and has never been especially in favor of freedom of expression. They just think it's rather radical and crazy and they're scared of it. For these reasons, they often imagine - and I feel it is evident in a talk. A senator who was otherwise fine - that the freedom of expression is, in effect, what remains when everything that people may not like or that can be harmful to someone. Godst was banned in Iceland until 2015, so-called violent films were banned until 2003 or 2006, and I do not remember whether, and pornography is still banned in Iceland under public penalties, which, of course, I am among liberal democracies and disgraces. Well, that's another story. I'd like to talk to you for a second. A senator on hate propaganda. I can say that it needs to be a hate speech law, but now it's too hazy and it bites too much. Three Supreme Court courts have recently agreed on the latest edition of the hate speech laws one another more absurd, one was acquitted, and the other two were convicted. I have a complete mystery about who was guilty and who was acquitted, yet I have considered the matter quite well and support of the Supreme Court. I'd like to propose it for what? A senator that a hate speech law must be made to deal with the specific rights of the people. People don't have the right to be said ugly things about it, people just don't have that right. They have a right to be safe. People must not be threatened or said things that endanger people's safety, which need to be protected, protected, and protected. This line that is always discussed with this discussion does not exist. I just wanted to throw that thought forward because of a talk. Senator. I don't think this is the time to call for a greater need for freedom of expression in Iceland. It's awful little and embarrassing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u110	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. A discussion of this particular bill regarding hatred speech was because it was within the discussion between the above and the highest. The minister of justice expressed the desire to protect individuals, minorities, from gangring and slandering - and then, in some way, an extreme hurt remark - was an instigator. This would limit freedom of expression. It's not like that, and in the Western world, I don't think we need to worry about it. I was reading a book transfer after a while. A South American senator on an incident that took place in a refugee camp on Ásb bridge recently, and I think that everyone is aware, and it can also be seen in the online reporting system, that Iceland's freedom of expression is set on an extremely small limit when this happens. If not, I think the system of judgment would be blocked by what I've read recently in connection with the incident on Ásb bridge. I noticed why. A senator shakes his head and says that his freedom of expression is severely restricted. [[The president calls.]] He spoke of three judgments, of two justifications, and of one condemnation. I guess that's as far as I can go.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u111	A respectable president. The freedom of expression isn't much in Iceland. As I say, it's what's left when Icelanders have agreed on what has to be banned with unique exceptions. It was really surprising to me that the Allied council agreed to eliminate the blasphemy ban in 2015, but we blessed it. In fact, there were two senators sitting by, as amazing as it is today, from an independent class and a then a leading forward but present class. I'm just as against hate as much as I hate what I do. Senator. I'm just as opposed to this speech. When it is used here for hatred, it strengthens hatred and greatly promotes hatred. I'm going to point out one piece of propaganda called Radio History. From there comes a flood of misinformation and facts every day. At least once I've called in to correct a fact error so introduced as destroying society. It was the fact that the Foreign Affairs Committee was going to find out about the third energy package, it was all a terrible conspiracy, and sending it for comment. I could talk too long about the wires and the bullshit that comes out of there. The misdeeds cause hatred, i.e. when things are said like the fact that trustrs have it much better than older people in Iceland. It's not that people use n-words or some ugly word or something that makes people feel bad about themselves, that's not what causes violence. What causes violence and hatred is when misinformation and ignorance are pushed into society. You can't forbid it. You can't forbid people to be wrong. You can't forbid people to be stupid. That's the problem. Therefore, I feel that this hate speech coded approach is missing out on all the grounds of hatred, though hatred speech may have to be there to protect the safety of people directly. I'm starting to feel like I'm starting to wind up in the middle of something. If we are going to stop, we need hate. A senator protests and participates in the debate that encourages hatred and corrects things over and over again. We thus work against hatred, not by punishing people. That's what makes people stronger. One of Radio History's slogans is, let's protect freedom of expression. Why would we give these people this good cause, and why would we put these on a plate of silver? I don't like it, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u112	Mr. President. Thank you. For the counter, a senator needs to disagree a little, at times. I don't think it's just the bullshit that comes out of people who raise hatred, I think it's also the words used. I think it is, too, when a certain social group is said to be pedophiles, that a whole social group is taken for and accused of flagrant crimes, because it is really a crime of penal law per se to be falsely accused. You see in the media the wording system and even in porcupine positions that people are being accused of flagrant crimes, entire social groups, minorities. I have taken care of people who believe in certain religions. I've seen that say about queer people. I've seen all kinds of stuff like this. It's kind of awesome. When you look at this and read it - and then why. A senator who himself speaks of freedom of expression has great limitations, speaking of the unhindered spirit that comes out of people at a certain radio station - I don't quite understand why. A senator considers their freedom of expression to be somehow limited because it is not. It's just broadcast all day, every day, all over the year. What limits do we have on that freedom of expression? There is no limit, nor is there a Trinitarian system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u113	That's good.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u114	Because of what? A senator came here and insisted that the one standing here would want to be the case because there was a great limit to the freedom of expression in Iceland again: I disagree. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u115	Mr. President. After 2nd. Some questions were raised as to whether the provisions were listed in paragraph 4. could be a little too extensive in the context of the definition of trust. I come here to try to explain this slightly because the bill text as such is not completely obvious unless it is read in the context of the Regulation referred to and introduced into law by the reference method according to the bill. There are a number of technical issues to be identified and understood, and there may be two main types of trust services under both the Regulation and the bill being discussed, on the other hand, validated trust services, and then validate employees and general trust services. Code four. is more extensive. They allow a number of items such as uncondemned searchs in certain cases, allowing considerable abundant intervention on the part of the consumer clinic for obeying the rules of trust. But when you read this in the context of various issues of Regulation, I remind you of paragraphs 2 and 7. ... andthen19rd. and 17. par., you've got some limitations. The limits for ourselves are that it is important that we understand them because at first there are limits to the effectiveness of consumer surveillance. A consumer clinic should be an initial surveillance member, i.e. In advance, only on the basis of valid trust services and the ability to become a valid provider under these laws is very high. Only one company in Iceland is in that sector, but to meet it, you have to meet very strict security requirements. At the same time, people must submit to a tremendous trust in society. It has become so that people can register on the national taxpayer web site, into their home bank, into the pension fund, into the medical clinic, etc., all of which have the same electronic terms. As a result, there may be cases where safety would not be appropriate for the trust provider, where a fake identity associated with any person's identity could be published, and it is only natural that there is a very large amount of information available to the Rapporteur, who is then the Netorial Laboratory in this case, to be able to ensure that this is being done well. However, it is important with these very extensive reports received by the National Competent Authority that we understand the context of their fall and take care of them, that most of them do not apply to public trust providers and, in particular, do not apply to some people who might consider them to be trusted providers in the view that they are doing things that look very much like trust service. Then I'm talking about--e.g. if I run a website with a login form where you can check into the website, I'm not automatically a trust provider in the sense of these tracks. Similarly, there is not even enough for parties, such as Facebook, who provide considerable confidence according to my understanding, the technical sense of that concept, but provide this bill and this directive does not provide trust, since they do not provide stable services as such as their economic core services. It may be nice to try to separate it, because it's a little complicated. Regarding the sources that the Neytend Office has to do with non-validated trust providers, i.e. Other than the highest level of validation, there is a 19th paragraph. The Regulation shall find safety requirements that apply not only to valid trust providers but also to security requirements for non-recognised trust employers are not as strict as those made to competent providers. Based on the 3 mg. 17th par. The Regulation, i.e. The European Regulation, which is introduced into the legislation here, is the role of the surveillance agency to take post-operative measures if necessary for trusting employers who are not valid and who have established the territory of the Member State's checks when they are told that these trust providers who are not valid or trust services that they do not meet the requirements recommended in the Regulation. It's complicated. In 1st. 17th par. The Regulation states that by permission of the president, the surveillance agencies should receive necessary authority and sufficient capacity to carry out their assignments. It is clear that monitoring duties have both valid and general trust providers, but this is of a slightly different nature. I'm not going to spend any more time trying to explain this except to say: "We're talking about three things, we're talking about valid trust providers in the sense of these laws, which are then explained in the European Regulation. We're talking about general trust providers who provide stable services but do not need validation because the level of security they provide is not established at that point. And then we're talking about other members of the registration team, to form the Pirate election system, or the registration form in Spotify, and so along the streets, they're certainly identifying people and they're certainly giving a certain trust, but they're not a solid service in the understanding of these laws. To say this, I hope this speech will be explained if there is ever a doubt about this matter, because it's certainly complicated, and there are many things that can go wrong and probably many places where a certain person might be considered a trusted servant. To tell you the truth, it would be normal for any members of the general network of monocommunications or, by permission of presidents, to offer a ◯sing sign-on-mkanism as such. Twitter, Facebook, Google, etc. which are generally used should fall in some way under such laws. As far as I'm concerned, they're not doing it today. That is why we will likely need to adopt on occasion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u116	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an up-to-date figure on this matter. It is good to hear what he is saying in complex matters, in the process of taking action, and in explaining bills that are being discussed in view of the fact that what we say from this chair can be, and is a part of legal explanation when just some sort of controversy arises. I think sometimes it's forgotten, Mr. President, how important it is that we choose what we say here and have a part in it, explain, or interpret the lawgiver's will, because, of course, everyone here is part of the Lawgiver, and it really matters what you're saying here. With this matter, interestingly, I'd like to ask you why. A panel on consumer protection on the Internet. I think consumers in general need to have more and more discussions in Iceland than they do. I often think it's a perimeter party that shouldn't be at all. Necessary business is running through all the governance and the business life. The interests of consumers are so broad that they can often forget in the race for selfish gain and special interest groups in this country, so that the more we think about consumers, the better. Likewise, the matter of competition might be said to do the same. I remember that the U.S. Supreme Court at one time said that competitive law was the constitution of professional affairs. It shows a bit of the thought, how important it is to have powerful consumer legislation on the other hand, and powerful competitive legislation on the other hand. At the same time as this legislation requires that the monitoring institutions be equipped to carry out their roles. Now I see my time is running out in this counterweight. I just want to get the senator's speculation on the Internet's consumer protection, on the Internet business, how he can see it now, and find where the shoe will fail when it comes to consumer protection over cross-border business. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u117	Mr. President. Online consumer protection is extremely difficult and difficult because, where borders are not relevant, there is a need for consumer protection across borders and anywhere else. This is naturally done in vacation contracts, but it is usually very limited. The voluntary agreement that we are on which to provide the strongest consumer protection is the EEA Treaty and this Regulation comes on its basis, so it can be said that this particular consumer protection issue, which is about to ensure security and quality standards for stable services and authentication, is an example of how consumer protection should be conducted online. Then there are many Icelanders who do business with companies outside the EEA through the Internet, e.g. I mention Ali Express, who is a very good service, but it may be difficult to enforce consumer protection against the tissues as they do. In the context of this, we may also ask whether reliable services on that site should depend on some rules. It's hard. It may be nice to say that now I'm probably supposed to be some sort of expert on these digital security issues, but I didn't notice any flaws or warnings that have to be put on until then. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson just told me. It shows how complicated a matter like this can be. I was doing this on the committee, and I didn't think there might be a problem with this, and actually it was found on closer observation that it isn't, but it's hard to be aware of this kind of thing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u118	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answers. This is particularly interesting in view of the nature of the problem. A senator knows quite a bit about digital security. Just as I mentioned in my previous answer, we may not have enough discussions about consumers and consumer protection, and we certainly do not discuss digital security enough. They're pretty important. I'm no expert in this field and far from it, but if you keep track of the news so clearly, you'll see that this is a problem that will do nothing but grow. We are seeing that financial services in general in the country are changing. The payment media systems are changing and, in fact, the whole banking environment. I've said from this chair that banks like we know them today will not be a people in a few years. I don't think it's a long time before most of us get into business with Facebook banks or Google banks or what's going to be called. Indeed, when all financial services and banking services, which are one of the institutions, so to speak, are making such rapid changes, these security issues need to be in place. The consumers need to be able to trust this electronic business that the bill comes to. Please enter the password on the server. Trust is a key to all business ventures, such as nothing to say, and has been that since business began. But when it comes to electronic business, especially in financial matters, we need to be especially careful, and I know why. A senator is the chairman of a future committee, and it would be interesting to know if there would be something on the table of this committee how to develop into an electronic business or in a financial market on the scene of that committee. Maybe I'm a little out of the question, but it's interesting to hear it in that context, because it's certainly something that the future will start to offer us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u119	Mr. President. I can answer that pretty quickly. No, we may not have addressed the exact question about electronic business. Of course, it's a question that would fit right up on the front panel of the future committee and may be just a matter of priorities and of the rest of the committee. We are now finishing a short report on the big lines in how we see things changing in the decades to come. It's very exciting, and I can't wait to see it come out. But the point is that when we're talking about things like this electronic business and other things, these developments develop quickly in the first place that it is very difficult to predict with any certainty more than five, six years into the future, and even more difficult. The other is that underlying science, which is just modern grammar, is changing extremely slowly. Modern grammar is actually based on three basic teachings, which tell the RSA hypothesis, i.e. The idea of counting numbers into their primary components is difficult. It's the so-called giant log, which is very hard to work backwards, and then there's an Eycrian program. These three are modern - day grammars, and it is not easy to tell which is the next step in that but perhaps dosimetry. The more business becomes electronic, the harder it is to separate electronic transactions from cryptology, and as a result, it may be little to cover at this point except the consumer side.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u120	Mr. President. This is where we discuss the insurance policy of pension and the operation of pension funds. As I understand it, it's part of an agreement in relation to collective agreements, the Government Action Programme to cover collective agreements. I'd like to make a few comments in general about your housing issues. It has been said, as it were, of course, that for a long period of time the situation that was created at the time of the collapse, a so - called collapse, as some say, came into a very deep collapse of 2008. In 2009 and 2010, there will be a recession in the economy. This year, 2019, we are experiencing the first recession in national production, which is falling together, since 2010. There is no need to recall that the collapse was a major blow to the Icelandic economy and, in fact, to the United States. A significant blow to the Icelandic housing market. I don't quite remember the numbers, but there was a very small number in those years, so that after the collapse, there was a particular need for rural society, especially Reykjavíkurburg, to be present at this time with an increased supply. Compared to the numbers I've seen, I'm looking at a better way. There has been quite a increase in the market apartments, especially in the capital area. I remember that we have to start a building on as many as 2,000 apartments just to keep up with population growth so that we are still a little bit more involved in the relaxation that developed in 2009 and 2010. The development of this market is particularly disturbing. This is not a standard market, and I think we're supposed to get into housing on the basis of human rights. It's a human privilege to have a roof over your head. We cannot leave this market to a private person just as we are to be handled by a private member of health care and education - only. The market will have what we call in economics a market failure for several reasons, so the public will have certain responsibilities in building a housing market. This may range from ensuring package oers and providing flexible regulations to support rapid and reliable development. Also, the government has a legal basis for general founded production, which is good in my opinion, and we've seen a lot of new economic problems in real estate companies that are building houses or taking care of them, including the U.S.A. ... withthe labor movement, students and other bodies. This is an exciting development and a positive attitude in my opinion because, in my opinion, we need to build smaller and less expensive apartments, not just for young people, but for all people. The demographic development of Iceland is changing considerably, in fact, a devastating trend. Determination in demographics is so remarkable, their fulfillment is amazing, and we see how evolution is being developed in the distribution of the nation, e.g. among older citizens, the number of senior citizens has doubled in 40 years. This requires public reactions, especially in housing. We live a little longer too, etc. However, in this discussion, I would like to give special attention to the position of young people. I don't feel that we have enough discussions in this discourse the reality of young people in Iceland. We know it's expensive to live in Iceland. It's kind of expensive in Iceland in international comparison, food is expensive, general consumer products are expensive, leisure is expensive. Money is expensive, and how can I get it out? I get it out by looking at growth, for interest is nothing more than money. Thus, everything in Iceland, including housing, is expensive. I'm quite concerned about the position of young people today. It is of utmost importance that the young generation of Iceland sees the benefits of being in Iceland even though I encourage all people, not just young people, to try living abroad. I have not yet met and regretted the foreigner who has tried to live abroad. I think it'll always extend the horizon. Whether people go abroad for study or work, I think they are always good. But to make living in Iceland attractive, housing needs to be in order. If we examine the figures involved in using people, we will see that the largest part of income goes into housing. It is interesting to ask people how large a proportion of earnings they think they will spend on e.g. food. I used to do this sometimes when I was teaching back to college, and I often got the figures that people thought that they might spend 20, 30, 40, 50, even 60% of their money on food, but if we just look at the living room's consumption checks, we'll see that the proportion of the person's total food expenses is much less. I remember it's about 14%, but the heat - and - power housing business reminds me that there are about 25 to 30 percent. This is a very big biography case, i.e. having a housing market that serves the interests of young people. This bill is about enforcing this special delivery form, and it has supported us in the Union, considering that this is an agreement between the labour market parties and the government. However, it is important to keep in mind that people who use their special savings for this purpose are, of course, spending their own money, so to speak, that the amount of money that was completely undiscovered was taken when the same person went into a pensioner's age. People are a bit borrowing in themselves, so to speak, to face the high cost they face while they are young. There is also another party in this matter, and he is that it's tax free and because we pay taxes when we take out the pension, they'll pay taxes in the government budget of that time, the government fund of the future. In this way, therefore, tax income is being taken from the generations of that time. That's interesting in this context. People are actually borrowing. Third, rural society has pointed out that they suffer considerable loss of income because of their resources. If I mention the local community, I often feel that I am part of a financial committee, but the Union of Icelandic rural society is often coming to us, that the rural communities have similar criticism, which is a total indiscriminate between rural society and the government, these two key stakeholders of the government. I would like to encourage the government to improve this conversation between society and the state. I'm reporting a very serious case, a planned cuts at the County Fund of $3.3 billion in two years. It sounds to me at the Minister that he's going to back it up with this, I hope so, but the communities were very harsh. Why are we going to pinch some money from a country partner? It's a treasure, even. Helps the rural community perform services with disabled individuals. It's very peculiar. But this is just one example. Another example is when our communities came to us and expressed their view of the biographies known as the Convention. They went on to indicate that according to the calculations of rural society, the cost may lie primarily in rural areas, i.e. The cost is higher than the government's. That is an intriguing statement that we may need to consider further. It is very easy to be generous at the expense of others, and you wonder whether the State is doing so in this case. Of course, the big issue is that we need to apply many of the government's counsel to help with housing. Young people are finding it increasingly difficult to get into this market. The primary reason for our problems lies in our lack of money. These young people cannot save money into an apartment because income does not allow room for savings at the same time as rent prices go, e.g. rising. In addition, housing prices have been rising and have gone up for several years. It may be about to turn around now. We'll see what it'll be like. In fact, the only last few years of government work that is involved in buying first estates has been the use of its own tax - free savings at the cost of shopping. Now we're simply discussing the extension of that strategy. Although this operation is useful to many, it is useful primarily to those who earn more money. It's not surprising in itself, but according to camp loan figures, and notice below, only about half of the tenants with the owner's savings are expected to become less normal. The person who has a low income is less specialised than the hair of a earner. This may be an example of some of us turning things upside down in this regard, but I deny that I am not opposed to the current situation. These are just interesting points we need to keep in mind. The government's resources, therefore, are to provide taxes to those who store their own tax deficiency to pay down their mortgages; thus, the main benefits are greater than the financial interests of the community. As I mentioned earlier, this bill is said to be a continuation of the Government's System Action Programme to support people for their own housing and contribute to a lower debt due to an apartment building as well as to support the actions of the government that were presented in the declarations of the biographies. In addition to this extension of the property savings policy, the government's housing proposal is largely unexploited and unfunded. That's interesting. You've been tracking politics for quite a long time, and when the workers of the old labour market were particularly allowed to arrive at the table, it was taken care that the measures the government was putting into the bag were not disabled, but it is now. We don't just see it in housing, we'll see this in the tax business too. I still have to see how the government's plans to implement the ideas presented in connection with the biographies that are expected to put the third tax step into the income tax system and to make sure in some way that the 10,000 will come primarily to the sector. I don't quite see how it can work without changing the person's discount. So this is unexplored, and as I told them, in the old days of the labour market it was always felt that when the government came to the solution of collective agreements, it was precisely clear what the government's actions were. We're going to get this financial transfer and maybe more problems, how it's gonna be. As it is in politics, the steps we need to take are particularly good care of in what way these tax proposals and housing arrangements will be implemented. The details here matter, and it's important that we in a position of government, and especially perhaps the employees of the labour market who made this contract particularly a success of this process. I have full confidence in the labour market party to do so. I'm sure we'll see the land there. At the same time, we'll talk about the money for the next five years. We cannot discuss government matters without discussing tax issues or vice versa. As we discussed this morning, we have the largest council case of every assembly in my opinion, at least in credit numbers, that is 5,000 billion dollars. A financial program that we are still waiting for may be changed to the government and possibly to the financial committees. Along with financial programmes, we have financial policy, which is also for the treatment of a budget board, so there's a lot going on in this regard, Mr. President. These were some of the things I wanted to address in this matter. In the context of these housing measures and the importance of the seminary, it is very interesting to see that the topic of housing as it is called during financial policy declines for the next five years. It's very peculiar, I think, that evolution is going down. If we compare public budgets for housing of 2019 and 2024, we're going down, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u121	Mr. President. I recommend a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee (ECC) that changes the bill's proposal to correct a set of values tax laws (established and methods of contraception). A financial and economic committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by the Director of Customs by Hlynur Ingason and Guðjónsdóttir, by the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, Steinþór-Þorsteinsson and Hörður Davíð Ómarsdóttir from the Customs Department, The Brynhildur of the National Rights Company of Iceland, and the Fr Freyja Barkardóttir, and Sigríður Finnbogadóttir from the Feminian Office. The committee received reviews from the Aðalsteinn of Baldursson, the Feminist Association of the University of Iceland and Iceland's Women's Rights Association. The bill suggests that single use only and repeated use of a product, including a female tie, amenorrhea, and amenorrhea cups, as well as all forms of contraception, fall into a lower level of value tax. The goal of the bill is to promote better public health and greater equality. A general pleasure was shown by the bill and the support that it would be successful. Among other things, a woman's view of the need for frequent products was found, so taxation of her lips in a higher step of merit taxation was unfairly applied. The taxation system should not weigh more on women than on others, especially on necessities. As for contraception, their reduction in the lower level of worth taxation would also be a timely and reasonable change, including to increase equality between those using different forms of contraception as indicated by the fact that condoms have been at a lower level considerably, but this will balance them. Whether there is a cause for decommissioning with any valuable tax from the products involved in the bill was discussed. Since there has not been a general practice of releasing valuable tax products, the committee feels that such a change requires more careful consideration. The committee received a tip from the Ministry's representatives and toll managers on technical defects in reference to to customs records in the bill and, in consultation with the customs manager, for the change of Article 1. So the bill for correction. With the change, the toll manager's space increases to define the subtypes of the products that fall under the standards of the law will be accepted by the bill. So it's going to be even. can define special products for menstrual products that have recently been identified, such as the use of frequent menstrual products such as menstrual briefs and menopausal clothing, in order to want all amenorrhea to be in the lower level of the value of a tax. The same is true of new products predicted to appear in the years to come, including the year to come. in view of technology progresses and increases in environmental awareness. The committee has been informed that to make the changes required by the company manager's office, it will take some time to adjust the parameters of the bill. So puts some more part into that change of 2. The bill that the law gains value on September 1, 2019 The change presented in the bill is both reasonable and timely. As shown in a bill report, the cost and income loss of the government budget of the change is negligible. In view of the above, the greater part suggests that the bill will be approved by a change outlined in the Committee opinion and that I am not specifically going to trace it, which is primarily a list of toll numbers. For example, the daughter of Harðardóttir G. Hardydróttttir signes in advance that she intends to explain in speech, and the Þorsteinn's son Víglundsson was absent at the hearing and signed under a warrant in 4 mgr. 18th par. Coral regulations of regular committees. Under this writing of Óli Björn Kárason, chairman of Smári Mccarthy, Odiz the Þorsteinn Víglundsson Wílund, Bryndís, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, and Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gógnsdotir. I just want to say, after finishing the presentation of the committee opinion, that this is a case that has been a very long discussion in Iceland and has been called the red tax. This is a matter of--ha? [[Up front.]] [[Taken out: Pink.]] Even the pink tax, yes, I've heard both pink and red, but in any case, this is a matter of equal equality. It was a real pleasure that in a financial and business committee most of us agreed that this was a matter that had to be done and that it was time so that I would thank the committee for just a very good job in this case. This too is true when you learn a significant amount of treatment. Or perhaps it is more than likely to mention that I think that most of the Economic and Business Committee have learned quite much about how the customs system works in the treatment of the problem and is a very interesting phenomenon when you get to know it a little bit more. This is the nature of the case, according to a number of cases at the council. There are an amazing number of cases that are simple equality issues that would be reasonably easy to resolve if there were a will and I would just want to make my suggestion that in general, when such cases are easier than others, because there is a rich agreement for them, that they are not to be asked out with them for the infinite or as long as the e.g. This matter has been discussed, rather, that it is done quickly and definitely so that these obvious matters can really be settled from time to time and that can be spent talking about things that may be less settled, issues that are more controversial. That's what I said. I'm not gonna hold this case any longer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u122	Mr. President. I find it a pleasure to give a talk in 2nd. to see the end of the great issue of justice that we have ever worked to pass through the council. It should be up to you to wonder. Our deputy Senator Pirata, Oktavía Hrund Jónsdóttir, was the first one to bring this up, and he won the bill in cooperation with him. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy, I think, too, should be very grateful for her work on this subject. I've done the same thing twice, and similar matters came out of the question. A former senator, Róbert Marshall, who, in fact, only turned to menstrual periods but not to contraception as suggested in this bill. I find this extremely important matter of justice very important, and I have been very fond of the narratives we've received because of the importance of facilitated access to menstrual products and contraception, and especially for poor women, who in some cases are only harder than other women with their lives because of the bad bioavailability of both menstrual and contraception. As is the case today, these necessities are classed as luxury products, but they are not in the same place as some essential hygienic products, which we assume are not overemphasis. Like what? paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy mentioned a pink tax in this context. I'd like to, too, before I go on, to thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, who led the committee, immediately handled this case when they made news before New Year's Eve and declared support for it then. I also found joy in hearing how much support there was within the committee on this important matter. Contraceptives and contraception are base products for women, and it is unacceptable that male contraception is on a lower level for extra taxation while contraception for women is not. On the other hand, if I correctly understood what came out of the committee, I find that in general drugs are a higher level of value tax. I think we could reevaluate it because I don't like it enough that we group drugs as some kind of luxury product. It doesn't work in my opinion to be a fair arrangement. I feel like we could think about that in the future too, because we can all need medication, and we've seen in our health system that the economy is extremely important whether or not. the person has the element of a pro-drug rather than a compound that sometimes works considerably better. Access to medications and somehow having to make up for them, and just like that, they may not be able to buy the best contraception for each woman because she has, for example, the most appropriate method of contraception for each woman. Of course, excessive initial costs or high maintenance costs are very likely because, as with women who have used contraception, they are more variable in their side effects and are suitable for women, just by the way they are. It may take some time to find the right one, and it would be good to take steps at least to make it easier and more accessible for women to find the best method of contraception and that the cost is not excessive. There is really no great deal to say about this matter, but that there is only a direct question that basic supplies, necessary hygiene, and essential contraception for women, status of other conditions, higher prices, and worse conditions than comparable products for men. That's why I'm glad that we're taking a step toward eliminating the pink tax, at least in this field. I thank you for all the support I've been given through the reviews and from the people who have been working this case. I have felt that the committee is doing it very well, and I have met the issues of opinion that came up with the best way of doing this will. I hope this legislature will agree with me to accept this important matter because it's a long time, and I don't think we should wait any longer, but we should just go through this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u123	A respectable president. A little more. In Iceland, a top tax is very high, and it is a very difficult tax for people in income - bearing groups. Now more than half of the taxes are being eliminated or dropped, but when taxes drop, they often do not achieve much in the end. It's some kind of thumb rule that tax returns directly to prices, making taxes not so easily. So I wanted to encourage consumers to observe a little about the price, see how it is and how it changes, and the rest of the monitoring organisations, especially on these products, to be very alert and to see if this change brings them all the way she's due and not to be taking some kind of intermediate amount there, which is not going to be any intention of doing this. So simple, I thank you very much for this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u124	Madam President. I wanted to say a few words, but I didn't want to say anything more, okay? paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir has done well in this case, which she is a 1st transporterr, and that in itself would be helpful to those here to express pleasure in the matter and the deed, but I'm going to discuss it in a few words. First of all, I want to, just because I feel better about it, to explain that in this fine language, which is a parapolitic solidarity, and movingmen come from many categories, there is no trace of any member of the council reorganization. The reason is not that, as we went over with a bang. 1st trucker in his day, that we do not support the case that we truly do, we believed especially at the time, and we have not yet failed in the faith that there will be some fundamental change in this valuable tax system. We thought that to be loyal to the opinions and suggestions we have made at the same time would help us to move this way. However, the case has now been covered by a Economic and Business Committee, where our representative, the why. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, is on the majority opinion and supports the case. Hv. paritaprevir Sunna's challenge was a little higher, and I was kind of reminded that two years ago, when we were in the middle of a panel discussion about health care support system, I was brought to my attention by the high cost of public health care participation, i.e. in articles that are reserved for men or men only for gender, men or women, and then women. When taken together, it was found that the payment of individuals, men and women, during these procedures or in articles would certainly be considerably higher than that of men in more parts or equal. At that time, there was considerable discussion about the so - called pink tax mentioned here. He sneaks in a lot of places. I think we need to be really alert. I'd be very interested to consider overall how he has a better way of getting a higher tax payment on products that women generally use, girls, and women, but in particular, we need to be alert to the fact that the lawgiver, public service, a public service that the state subsidies, at expense, does not fall there in particular. That's where we have at least Walking ahead with a good example. This matter is tremendously good, and I am very happy to see the general solidarity that I think may be called, although the committee does not sign in general. We do not know exactly how this will turn out, but it seems that more of us are involved in this matter, namely, justice, which may be as if it were a matter of unconcernedness and accident, not determined will. It's just time to fix it. Thank you. paritaprevir Thorhman Ævarsdóttir Övarsdósdótir for representing this case, and I hope it goes fast, definitely through the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u125	Madam President. I just want to say the word with what. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's design for the credit system in Iceland is devastating. That's terrible for many reasons, maybe primarily because it's the second largest worth tax in the world. When we look at the effects of different types of taxes on different people in the community, it is obvious that worth tax is one of all the tax types that can be created. It has a prominently greater evil influence on people who earn little money and who do not have a similar effect on people whose income is high. This case is one of an extraordinary number of justice and equal issues that could be turned toward the merit of the tax system. The Committee noted very good comments that the value of the tax system should, in fact, have no exceptions. I agree with that. But if we're going to wait for the credit system to stop being crazy in Iceland, we'll have to wait a long time. After all, at least In my opinion, it would be better to try to fix the merit tax system using this samurai method, considering that it has not yet been done as well. it was suggested in consultation guidelines for improvement in prosperity at the time, to reduce the value tax considerably and resolve it. Not that way, I thought that suggestions were out of the question of having too high an extra tax cut. You could go even lower, but of course you have to tax elsewhere and perhaps even progressia.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u126	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for the counter-relevant and meditation. This may be exactly the case, as happy as I am with this change, and I think it's a justice matter, I'm not necessarily happy that we stepped into this system of things that rages. A senator calls him crazy, and I go the long way of agreeing with him with his installation. We're happy with the situation today, there may be something else tomorrow, and we're talking about a major intervention in consumption. You're right. One senator says, there are differences in the effects of different social groups, which are the very reason we are here on this matter. A much more natural and clean approach would be achieved by attacking the root of the problem and a counter-examination of this system. As I say, I feel that this case is just a correction of the wrong position that has been present for quite a long time and therefore, with a very good conscience, I can back it up just because it works against the big image I have of how we should gain our valuable tax system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u127	Madam President. Correction is absolutely correct. It's really a correction of a bad system. A review of the terms available today, both given in general but also the cases where this is transferred to the lower levels of worth tax, shows a little bit of how we are following certain politics in these taxes. Of course, in some ways taxes are political, especially those on which taxes are imposed and how high they are. There are just some things that are very difficult to justify. It's a bit obvious, it's obvious that this is to be corrected. But I agree with what was presented. paritaprevir The Ævarsdóttir Övarsdósdótir's claim that, of course, medication should also be included in these packages. But as soon as you start to get it together, you may be walking a certain way. I think it's better to go that way than to leave it as it says today. But I agree completely with what. Of course, we should not have to do so. That's a bit of the point because hunting and bass sales are special and that we need to play the game of listing toll numbers in order to have things right with some database system shows that wrong thinking is going on. If we had the right thought, we might have spent less effort in correcting from the basic injustice of the valuable tax system each time and perhaps more powdering to check government records and even check if the income tax system works as we would like it to.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u128	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy back for the counter-sponsored. It's a little complicated. There is something that interferes with the thought of taking such a bite into this system, some in fact because the big question is, What will it do if more such scenes are taken out, up to the point of making such decisions so as to be seen, because it also needs to adjust the income and expenditure of the big picture for the State? Such changes need to be made, as the talk site went over and considered the overall effect, i.e. your income and how this affects your consumption because these are highly consumer taxpayers. I think it's really important that we take time, regardless of where we're in the best interests of ourselves to look at it, take a professional look at it. What do we want out of such a tax system? Why do we have exactly this type of tax system? What are the benefits of doing so more than that? What do we want out of this? Then we need to make a decision on the number of tax steps and, of course, adjust the percentage. But the simplicity of this, so people know what they're doing instead of using it for a macronuclide control, I think that's the way. This may be a matter ahead of time, and hopefully others will sit in the Senate Hall when it will be discussed. This is a good start, and it will be nice to see it come true.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u129	Madam President. In the beginning, I'd like to give special commendation to the 1st traveler of this bill. paritaprevir Thorhildur Ævarsdóttir Övarsdóttir, for making and producing it. I think that this case is totally beneficial. I see that at the Committee of the Economic and Business Committee, everyone seemed pleased with the bill. It's one of those bills that makes you think, "Why hasn't it been so long? " This is a personal and natural thing to me, to reduce taxes in this way to these products. Thank you and thank you. paritaprevir Ævarsdóttir Asvardóttir. That's what matters. I don't worry that we're getting too complicated by the tax system and other things. I've never been particularly afraid of a complicated tax system, and this doesn't interfere. We'll see that on the merit tax, there are not just two steps, but three steps. Of course it's the 24% step, then it's 11%, then it's the 0% step. I see that there are small problems about this in the Committee opinion, that it was discussed whether or not to cancel the value tax from the products the bill is about. The result was not to do so, at least not for this reason. But we do know that there are non-precious activities that could be considered, Mrs. President, on the basis of whether these products belong. For information, sports activity is without respect for extra taxes, swimming pools, sports events, sports contests. Public transportation is over there. The insurance business is without credit taxes, stock markets, lottery and prowess, real estate accounts, funeral services. There are several activities without respect for extra tax in the current system. It is good to keep that in mind of the voices that are often heard when such national contracts pass through: 'You're in the way of the tax system, don't do that. We're not. The tax system offers exactly three types of taxation within the value of the tax system, and we are simply here to transport products from 24% of the tax level to 11% tax level. If we look at what is in 11% of the tax steps, there are a number of products that political decision has been made to stay in the lower tax step instead of the top tax. There are CDs, records, and tapes, bathrooms, travel guides, magazine sales, newspapers, magazine subscriptions, book sales, perhaps one of the biggest items here. There's been a lot of trouble in this room about how high the value tax should be on groceries. During the previous years, only the political decision has been made that there is food, for example. at home, in a lower tax level, Here we hope to do so in the same way with the lips this bill is. paritaprevir Ævarsdóttir Asvardóttir's rivalry begins. I think the argument is that we're getting our system out of line. We also see that this raises questions about what other products are in the lower level of the value tax. The most interesting point is that large amounts of tourism are in the lower stages of the valuable tax level. I read an article in the Morning Press after I heard it. paritaprevir Insolent Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir's daughter, a member of the Independence Party, this morning working on my speech on tax issues this week and especially because I talked about the use of tax reforms by being on the lower level of the valuable tax. She is shocked by the use of the word "power of taxes. " But I want to tell you what. A member of Congress and a nation on where I get these words, a tax grant to travel, because of the fact that much of them is in the lower level. I can do this with joy. This expression can be found in the highest language. The secretary of finance and the chairman of the Independence Party, huh? paritaprevir Bjarni Benediktsson's son. This is simply in the independent financial program. It speaks of a tax grant for travel. So this is a very peculiar criticism from the writer of the Independence Party, which I hope to be listening to, in view of the fact that I allow myself to use words used by her own chairman and written in this large document, the government budget. If she has something to do with this wording, the locality should be slow down in this regard. She can take it up at Valhalla. Madam President. I don't like talking about taxes. Taxies are politics, and politics is tax. That's why I'm happy, and I'm glad we can take a political stand on how the tax system should be built up. We're not supposed to be listening to these voices that always hear when we want to change the taxes, that the system should not be entangled. I remember here in the past that there were absolutely no increments allowed in the income tax system. It was supposed to be a total death and demon that we had such a complicated income tax system. There was only to be one flat step. At the same time, almost all nations that we prefer to compare with us were in a number of stages in the income tax. I don't know better than we've had three steps after the crash, and there's nothing wrong with that. We can well have a multi-stage tax system, such as virtually every country we compare with we have, whether thought of the income tax or the valuable tax system. I have sometimes said from this chair that I feel that right men and independents may be rather reluctant to discuss tax matters in general. Taxies are in their mind some shameful word. I don't think that's the way it should be. Taxation is the price we pay for being in a civilized society, as it says. Tax collections are collected to finance public infrastructure, welfare systems, hospitals, hospitals, schools, child reform systems, roads, law enforcement, etc. Taxation is given to finance the campaign of the Independence Party, so we should not be afraid to discuss in what ways the taxes should be built up. If I came in on an article or something. paritaprevir The competition of the Arna Sigur Sigurbjörnsdóttir's daughter regarding the tax issues in the Morning Press - it speaks of that left men just want to raise taxes - it's not right that the left men always want to raise taxes. The right thing about this is that we want to increase some taxes, but we want to lower others. That's what we want. And that is exactly what history shows. The difference between us in the United States and independence may be that we want to lower the taxes on ordinary people while independence would like to reduce taxes on the big business and the rich. The work shows it. I want to, because I have a reasonable amount of time here, to cover just what tax reductions the Conspiracy has made when the economy has offered it, because the Conspiracy has been able to provide a number of tax reductions. The word from independents that we are alone in this discourse to increase taxes is not valid. The union has dropped the income tax of individuals. How did we do that? We did not have a flat decrease in income taxation that is most useful to the highest income. It goes on to say that if we lower the income tax rates, we'll have more dollars in our pocket as we make more money. How did the Conspiracy, in cooperation with other classes in its time, lower income tax from individuals? We did this by raising our personal discount. A match between character pay and tax percentages creates an tax limit. We have even dropped capital taxes, although we have also called them after they could be higher here. In Iceland, income tax is the lowest of all the North countries. He's the lowest I find very peculiar in view of the fact that there's a considerable amount of property in this country. In review, it is worth considering that only 2% of Icelandic families paid capital taxes for stock sales. We see that 1% of the richest Americans have more pure assets, according to tax returns, than 80% of the Icelanders. Here's a good way to raise money taxes without everything going on my side. But I opened this up in view that the Conspiracy has dropped capital tax. How did we do that? We didn't drop the percentage. We set up a vacation goal. It wiped out about 90% of taxpayers. This is a tax reduction to ordinary people with moderate capital pay. This is a fair politics showing that taxes can be reduced in this way to the benefit of most people, especially low - income, middle - income, just ordinary people. Free income target not initially known. The default target was set in place on the Union watch and other classes to reduce their taxes. Sometimes it's said that we don't want to lower taxes on a business. But the Consequences have dropped their taxes on a business. How did we do that? We introduced tax recovery from investments in newer enterprises. We have. We want to contribute to a reasonable tax system, and we do so in this way. We've dropped the value tax, like this bill already did. paritaprevir Sunna's integrity is at hand. We combined with other classes to lower the value tax with the campaign All Work, set up in 2010. As far as I know, that made a lot of progress. According to a report by the National Institute for National Affairs of the University of Iceland, the tax burden in intermediate and low income groups declined after the collapse. It was because of the politics of the time. The left government at that time decided to lower the tax burden despite the hopeless state's position at that time. The state's budget was more than 200 billion in 2009 to2010, but the left government was able to reduce the tax burden of low income and middle income groups, but it grew by high income groups, as it should be. We are to have a fair tax system that extends wide. There is a division in this community, and some groups can do more, especially in view of the fact that people have been calling for more money in hospitals and schools, in the welfare system. Whether people are on the right side or the left side of the center, it is almost consistent with the opinion of voters to call for further investment in public infrastructure. We're at least Frankly, saying: Yes, if we want more money in the Land Hospital, you know we have to get them on tax returns. The League believes in the insurance system. The other way is high services, patient fees, and school fees. We want to avoid such a system in the longest of laws. It's called the Richism, that you pay for what you use. We'd rather have a social security system where you pay taxes that generally run for the building of public service, so that the cost does not result because the person who gets sick has to pay just for the services he uses at that time. It's not a insurance system. It's not the North American way. These are things I would like to draw here and answer to the lntruders because they do not tire out trying to make some dirt about that left man always wants to raise his taxes. Left men may well lower their taxes when convenient, but we do so in a reasonable and general way. We do this to ordinary people, with middle income groups and low income groups, but we don't see any special reason to lower or have the lowest capital tax in all the North countries. We see no special reason to reduce the cost of hunting so much that they have become as high as tobacco. One of the most productive fishing grounds on earth is the fishing fee. This is the politics of the Ministers who are supposed to be here but are somewhere else, which we can see is reflected in two of the budgets of this government and then in financial and financial policies. The right mantra, so to speak, rules here. Here's the biggest one. Bjarni son of Benediktsson, who is in charge when it comes to the tax issues. That's too bad. While self - centered people do not tire out in showing that they always want to lower their taxes, it has been noted that there are a lot of taxes that have gone up on their watch and that many taxes have simply not changed, even though they have had the opportunity to eliminate or lower them. Often, they say one thing to their grass root, to their denominations, and then do quite another thing when they are in control. The independence party is now quite remarkable that he often behaves in ways that are different from what he speaks. This is a class that has been a large part of the republicary period at the Management Board, so if people think that things might be different, the responsibility is quite clear to me, Mrs. President. I just wanted to expand the discussion. I know we're talking about a change in values tax, a small, important case. We're supposed to talk more about taxes and how the tax system is developing. Taxation also needs to be moderate. Now we've got a downturn to the economy. We're experiencing the biggest eco-efficiency for less than 30 years, apart from the collapse. I say it from this chair and in this room that we don't tax ourselves out of the crisis. Nevertheless, we need to protect the public, the things we all have together, and the things we need to make use of in times of crisis, e.g. in health matters or when we get older or have an accident. We, in my opinion, should raise some of this conversation about your insurance policy. I said here this morning, to show how few we are, that every day, as many people in the world as they live in Iceland, are born. Today, 3 60,000 people are born. Three thousand people were born yesterday, and this also happens tomorrow. It is a small society, in many respects a good society that could be better. It is everyone's goal, no matter what their type, that people want to improve their standard of living in Iceland. In some cases, we may discern our goals, but often there are ways. In view of the few we are, we too are a rich society. We are the tenth richest country in the world. It tells us that we can do so much better, Madam President. We don't have to have a system of being a invalid in Iceland that means poverty. When was it set? Why do people in Iceland have to grow old to translate poverty, uncertainty, and uncertainty? It doesn't have to be this way. Of course I know we don't do everything for everyone, and no one's talking about it, but we can do so much better. We can reach out to these individuals who are always left behind, whether this is a economic growth or a contraction. How tragic that situation is for years! Of course, we can see progress in various fields, but we still have some 6,000 children living in poverty or in poor economic opportunities to participate in society. There is little more tragic in the tenth richest country than a poor child who cannot or cannot use the same opportunities as her peers. It's a solution that I know everyone agrees on having to work out. Of course, there is no favor for the poverty of children. Then let's use whatever resources we have, e.g. through the tax system. Some taxes should be raised to meet the challenges and problems that society faces; others should decrease. It's not a black and white world, Mrs. President. That is why you may be in a hot mood because you know that opportunities are there. You can do better than that. Decisions taken at the government table are directly moving this community toward designing a system for the rich, which is totally unnecessary in this small family created by Icelanders. Madam President. Now I see my time is running out. Once again, I want to thank you for this matter, and I support it whole - souled. I reiterate that we should not be afraid to cut only into the tax system with the aim of making it more reasonable, though one factor or two are added to the legal process here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u130	Madam President. Thank you. A senator before the talk and who responds, although it may not be unusual for a member of the group to respond to a group member. Where it is. A senator is economically educated and knows the purpose of taxes better than many of them here in this hall. I'd like to ask him if we could go further into a different tax system. There are, for example, Britain. any products that are appropriate for children, all children's products, except the value of supplementary taxes. Of course, they come in handy with their children's families. I wondered if there is something we could see as the next step in a fair tax account. When such national abuses are spoken of as reducing the value of certain products mentioned here, you often hear the criticism that it runs so rampant the tax system, that it is so weak and that it is of great concern. You know, in a computer age, you wonder, and I'd love to hear it. A senator will answer if it is. Is that a big problem? Is this an insurmountable complication that we're creating by reducing the value tax on these products and not others?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u131	Madam President. First, I answer the second question: No, I'm not afraid of the misunderstanding, especially in view of the fact that we already have three steps in ourselves. We have 11% and 24%, but we also have 0%. We have a specific operation at 0%. Thus, we are not in itself creating a new step with this system. We're moving products through systems with political logic, and we're putting these products in a place where they're at home, and in my opinion, they don't increase. Although we're ensuing a new tax leg here, I think, like a dog. In view of how our technology is in this country and how it has been for a long time, a senator said that we can take good care of it. Hv. Similarly, a senator mentions the situation in Britain. For a long time, 0% sales tax has been on baby products there. There are not many reports from Britain that the tax system is beyond their reach, as it were. Like many tax issues, just a political decision is how far we want to go. I am a great spokesman for financial motives, and they affect us. We teach it in economics, and I specifically mentioned it. I taught economics in college, and there I specifically explained that it is a fundamental principle of economics that economic motivation, both in English, affects people's behavior. Of course, taxes are financial incentives. I am, for example. a great advocate of glucoc tax. We had a sugar tax here a year before he was relatively low. He may not have had the effect he should have. There are considerable amounts of sugar consumption in this country and some external costs from sugar intake are transferred to the general health system, feeling unwell, etc. We can easily make the political decision to keep sugar more expensive. Of course, it contributes to a measure of the nation's expense, but we are rather distributing the cost that will still be involved. Transmission taxes are one way we should look at much more. [[The president calls.]] We are to use the resources of the tax system to achieve political goals or changes in behavior through this catalyst.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u132	Madam President. Thank you. A senator is eager to give the answer, but he wants to continue in the class that I really need. You also wonder about it with all your services. A senator came in instead of making a decision to place taxes on other things. Why don't we talk about salmon fishing? Is it true that there's no merit tax on it? On the other hand, we have decided to charge our services on the emergency department. We contribute to the various services that the sick need to perform. Once an 18 - year - old person is still a student, he is paying full fees in all places. There's no quarter there. There is no discount for higher education or high school students, they get seriously ill and have no forwards. So how does it go? I'm sure I'm a little bit off the subject, but I'm wondering about this because of the critical voices that have heard of this bill running the system. Is it not better, then, to let go of service fees all over the world and to have a simpler tax system so that certain products are in a lower tax level than others in a higher level, releasing the unfair tax paid?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u133	Madam President. I agree with that, because in fact, we only have these two main ways to finance government, tax, and services. It's a lot of politics to talk about raising taxes and services. We can see that there are political groups here talking for more services. Hv. A senator specifically mentions patient fees, school fees, and expenses. These are all high political decisions as to how we should finance our joint infrastructure. In general, I think we're gonna have a hard time. A senator would agree that it is far more reasonable to have solid taxes, a general tax system, an insurance system that finances precisely the public infrastructure that we want everyone to have, regardless of the economy. It is also the mark of a highly underdeveloped country, having a low tax step, a simple tax step. We can see that as the state develops and grows richer, there will be even more tax steps. I learned long ago, when Tansaniia was gaining independence, that one of the first things Tansania made was to get Swedish tax experts to advise how to implement an efficient tax system. Of course, tax systems can develop to some degree and work against themselves. Of course, tax systems need to be efficient, and we should not be afraid to revise what we can do better. In general, the tax system in Iceland is pretty efficient. We'll see how the governor has kept his business. It's kind of a user-friendly institution. We understand that status is electronic, since information is superseded and otherwise. I'm not afraid we're intruding our system in a way that makes it impossible to take these steps. If anything is, we should take more steps this way, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u134	Madam President. I have not come up here to extend the discussion but because I was sadly unable to participate in a previous discussion. This is an enormously good case, and I'm one of them. senators who present the case. As mentioned earlier, a reduction in the level of the cost of menstrual products and the reduction in contraception is required in a lower level of worth tax, which I think is extremely important for women to improve their availability and, like all, contraceptive methods and then also, for menstrual products that are less important. I think everyone realizes that they're a lot of necessary stuff, at least. for us women. It's kind of amazing that they found their way to the top level of the merit tax. This is vital hygienic response, and as we know in many lands where poverty is rampant simply so that women cannot do work or go to school during the days they bleed, and it would be very sad if it were the situation here. I believe, fortunately, we are quite at a time in this country. I wanted to commend more part of the Economic and Business Committee for the changes he's making in the case, i.e. taking into account current changes in menstrual periods. They're getting much more complicated than they've ever been, I'll mention the reused lady tie, the elf cup and so on, that I don't talk about panties where it's indentated. That's really brilliant. - Now I'm always getting to president. It is not intended to have this conversation with the highest level alone. Mr President, I'm sorry about that. - It's brilliant, and it's an enormously important and positive change the more part of the Economic and Business Committee puts on the case so that it will definitely cover the products that I would like to claim were their will at that time. senators who made the decision. Mrs. President, I just wanted to discuss the pink tax, which has two release photos, on the one hand, on taxation of essentials for women and on the other, the price of sealers and the manufacturer. In December 2015, New York City's consumer field made an incredible thorough and careful study published. I wanted to call the attention of the United States of Congress on that study because it contains striking results. The consumer scene compared prices to over 800 goods. The objective was simply to check whether the products were marketed for women and products which were marketed for men. The results were striking, Madam President. On average, the products marketed for women or girls cost about 7% more than comparable products for men or boys. Thus, there were 7% differences between toys and other, 4% differences in the clothing between children, 8% differences in adult clothing, 13% difference between hygiene products such as soap and cream. I realize that women and I are often referred to as older than men, and perhaps they are the expensive and good creams and hygiene products we use. However, I allow myself to doubt that justice will be 13% of the difference. Similarly, there was an 8% difference in goods intended for older citizens, which is quite bizarre. One would have thought that when we reach an adult age home, we were not very different. It's also interesting to examine - and I suggest that you look at this interesting investigation - the difference between clothing and clothing. One manufacturer put more on clothes for women in excess of men. Probably about as much material or even more about dressing a man in the size of a woman. There was even no difference in style or style in this outfit, but it still meant $12,115, which is totally crazy. The difference between the price of pets for children has often been taken as an example in the media, in pets that were exactly the same without the color, one being pink and the other blue. A pink one cost more than the blue one. Is the pink dye so much more expensive? Something must be. If that is the case, I think it would be wise for us to change our color and simply stop using these colors over our heads to distinguish the sexes. It's naturally out - of - date. I can give you more examples, and what may have hit me the most was that there was a 48% difference between the price of shampoo and the conditional condition for men and women. I know that we women pride ourselves in having beautiful hair and all that, but I don't know any better than many men have that ambition too. You can't imagine that there is any other reason for this price other than that one is meant for women and other men. This is something we have to change. Somehow we need to deal with this difference in our community. We can naturally take the step, setting the example in this regard by excommunicating national legislation with the factors that cause this, in which there is simply a difference between the sexes, as indicated by the change here. There's something else I wanted to come in on. Do we really feel that the sexes are so discriminated against? This is not the only case of gender discrimination, as we know. In the face of having to pay more for the products, even basic items that women buy - they are worth more - less pay. Although there has truly been a very positive, important step in this country, and we, in fact, were exemplary in the world in terms of laws that ensure equal wages, the fact is that research shows that women are still less paid than men. Clearly, we need to keep to our toes in this regard. Of course, the market law has this effect. Apparently, women have more payment or are in some way dependent on these products, so they do not feel that they are paying higher price for them. It is unacceptable, Madam President, and I reiterate that we are also on a lower salary. Finally, it causes us to have less in our hands each month than men, and it makes me feel unacceptable. Perhaps it is the so - called market law that causes this. The market will catch that women are apparently willing to pay for these things, but the men may be, I'm not going to use the word wiser, not willing to pay the same amount, and even take the products that are at the lowest price. But while no one complains, while no one makes comments, the question is which motivation of an enterprise has to change things. Hence, when such incidents occur, it is vital that there is talk and awareness in the community. With the development of Facebook, which was well discussed earlier, there has been an enormous increase in consumer protection. I can mention several groups on Facebook where I am, where people point out good offers and other such, but also these examples that go far beyond the fact of people. Happily, when such events have been pointed out, stores have sometimes responded quickly and even said that they were wronged and corrected. I especially remember one example of a bicycle helmet which was exactly the same except for the colour, one was pink and the other blue. The response was rapid, and the same price was put on both helmets. This continues to prove how important it is to have active consumer protection and to try to awaken the public to an increased level of consciousness not to be offered such prices, such a difference in prices for no reason. This allows pressure to be put on the affected person, i.e. Sellers and producers. It is amazing that after all the discussion that has been going on about the rights of the sex, especially the rights of women, it still has to do with in Icelandic society. Of course, you often want to ask why it is. What causes this to continue today? Maybe it's because we're a little bit looking at the big movie. We're looking at the status of the sexes in a work market, we're looking at the status of the sexes in the education system, and we're looking at the status of the sexes in a number of ways. Then we often forget these little things, but they are so important underneath. As Þorgerður Einarsdóttir, professor of sex studies at the University of Iceland, has pointed out, at times you also need to watch the big movie. Sometimes you think that this is just one example. Then you have to do exactly what New York City did, take a lot, check prices. Is this a unique example, or is it a systematic and systematic tail for women? In fact, it leans upon the men in terms of prices, the price is lower on them. You can't figure this out until you start looking at the big picture and see the pattern. Then you realize that this is no coincidence. Hence, in all of this, it is of utmost importance that the State will come to the matter and correct what obviously needs to be corrected, as we do with this bill's approval. We also need to be constantly examining our legislation on the basis of gender and equality. That's what got me, for example. Some surprise, Madam President, when I was studying the law on marriage law, to see only the matter of being bisexual. I would have thought it was only if the man married two women and wondered if it means that women can have more than one male. Actually, I'm not sure I'd go into it, to be honest. Yet, it is very interesting to see an example of this. Although it is true that later in the law of law that both men and women have become bisexual, my understanding of matters is that it is only used if a man has more than one wife. These examples show that we must constantly be alert and do our best to deal with visible things, as discussed here, i.e. that essential hygienic products and similar contraception for women are not unacceptable because of the government's tax. Finally, I would like to mention that these are important products, such as birth control. It is important in Iceland's sex health that the availability of contraception is good, I'm not talking about in the light of the recent discussions of pregnancy breakers. The best way to reduce the number of pregnancy breakes is, of course, to have adequate access to contraception so that contraception can be started there. Happily, things have changed, but the fact is that we have seen an increase in the incidence of sexually transmitted diseases, such as. chlamydia. Although this may not be a large amount of money in the overall context, it is relevant for individuals. So I must be glad that this case has come up, and I am truly looking forward to voting with it, and certainly also by these excellent changes, the more part of the Economic and Business Committee. I think I've managed to cross some of my key points in the case and I'll let it work for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u135	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a bill about changing the values tax laws for menstrual products and contraception. The bill is relatively simple, i.e. the value of extra tax in menstrual products and contraception falls to a lower value tax level. Well, that's not the case. The Committee's Committee of Economic and Business Commission suggests that changes are made in order to improve its control over all the items needed and to propose toll managers, from what I understand. Four comments were given, and it is strongly supported in all these comments, perhaps to expect only a relatively small matter. I'm going to go a little better into how I'm sure it is and why it matters that we realize that it's probably, but it's been waiting until now. First, I have to give a good suggestion, as stated in the comments of the Feminist Society of the University of Iceland. This proposal involves a change in the Environmental Ministry Regulation on the matter of loyalty, a change in the term ▪ fully trimmedied. Today it is defined as a special washroom with a toilet and a hand bath with hot and cold water, a mirror, soap, and dry hands. The University of Iceland's Feminist Association suggests that these will be added disposable monthly products to make a special washroom with hot and cold water, mirror, soap, toilet paper, disposable menstrual products, and dry hands. I think that proposal is very good, and I hope the Environment Minister takes note of this indication and changes the Regulation in that direction. In the context of Regulation, the bill cannot stipulate that change. Rather, it must come from a minister, unless it should be placed in a national law, but I think it is unnecessary. This is a point that only happens in the regulations, but it might be updated in this way. As many have mentioned, it is a very serious matter, and it is, in fact, surprising that this matter has not been accepted even now and long ago. I just want to find out why. I think it's important in much more context than in this matter that we realize why it is. The reason for the success of these menstrual products and contraception for women is in my opinion the character of the male complex. Then it is worth asking what is meant by society. I don't like the debate on definitions of words in general, but this time I find it really important. What do we mean by the term community, and what does it mean when it refers to the personality characteristics of that community? I view society as some kind of person, some form of the way society treats other institutions, groups, and individuals. It is important to remember that society can have exaggerated symptoms or symptoms other than individuals within it. For example, the controversies of society may be involved in a wide range of statistics and injustice, which no one really speaks of or exploits. In other words, injustice is unexpected. This is not because individuals in themselves are maleified or are doing bad things, but perhaps because of minor thoughtlessness and inconsiderateness among all. When this inconsiderateness or thoughtlessness is reflected in decisions or perhaps in the proportion of women during a council or something similar, an error may appear even if the individuals making the decisions are not mere males. I'm not necessarily referring to individuals who are male-to-males, but when we add the average of decision-making and attitudes and we put in some term called community, giving them the concept of personality characteristics, it's a community of character characteristics in males. I think this applies in more or less of all matters. We can see patterns. I mentioned the proportion of women at the General Assembly or the proportion of women in executives, the like, that distinguishes very large communities and the characteristics of institutions, and that no one adopted, and decided that women were to be fewer at councils or women were less than presidents or that the values and attitudes and behaviors that could possibly lead them. to the director's position, or higher, needs to be characterised by the Thai testosterone values that I'm going to leave alone to describe in too much detail, at least For now. This requires that we observe the personality traits that we are opposed to, e.g. the kind of person we see in the community, though we do not see them in the person form of individuals who make decisions. In other words, we must remember to be self - critical and realize that we can make man - made decisions without being man - made. Women can do the same. This requires that we approach such a subject with a measure of humility, and we cannot act as if we were simply not racist or male, and thus we do not have to give in to it. It doesn't work that way. In this way, Rasism and menism are allowed to flourish rather well. Whether we call ourselves Rasist, male, or otherwise, we need to develop a firm, conscious view of combating these influences in our own decisions and in our own approach to matters. It is also very important in all rights struggles that we do not view it as a responsibility for each member of our team to fight for their own interests first and foremost. I have to say, I like to see a lot of men on the rosary in this case and to deliver the case. I'm among them myself, but this pattern doesn't always show. Some feminists are almost just women, and I always think that a pattern is a little sad, not because they're not supposed to be women in feminists, but because I don't think that mankind is hard enough to stand up for rights that concern all of us in the big context. I don't think we're good enough, as a group fighting for each other's rights. Although this is not the case, I find a very important lesson in U.S. civil war, which, in fact, is an extremely significant story, if that is the case. Today, it is not possible to talk about black people and white people as they were done. First of all, they are not the color people shed on their skin, and second, race is not that clear. It's not that black and white, if I may allow that word, but there was a time when people could be put into black or white, black or white. When I talk about men in this sense, I obviously mean women, too. If we let ourselves do that, for that matter in the United States, black people were not slaves, white people were not slaves. White people enjoyed much freedom, and freedom was one of the key interests of the U.S. government, ideologies, even religion. Of course, it was mainly freedom for white men; women were not given the same weight in society as all of it. But in particular there was a difference between white and black. Blacks were exactly slaves. The contradiction with American ideals is so obvious, creaking and obvious. What a stink of her, which was well - known when the United States came into existence! Never was satisfied with American society on black slavery. Then, as the United States grew and more countries became part of the United States, this question had to be settled. As it turned out, the so - called South of the United States saw that by taking more countries into the Union, the American Union, slavery would cease and this would destroy the economy of the South. So they declared independence and went to war on the north. It is sometimes said, falsely, that the civil war in the United States was not really about slavery but about the economy and things like that. That's wrong, it was about other things. All wars are complicated. And it is true that the north did not fight to save slaves, the north fought to keep the alliance together, but the south fought for slavery. That was why the south fought. The reason I'm on this unnecessary long story explanation is because it took white men to fight for the freedom of black people, as they were called, and we don't call them that much longer. I think this is an extremely important point because today is, like, a.m. In the United States, for the presidency there, often with high emphasis on the fact that groups, especially the majority, the big and strong, and the privileged one should put himself in first place. And then there's a whole range of geographical numbers, and there's a terrible trend, and I'm sorry, a respectable President, the Icelandic version just fell out of me at the moment -- which is a terrible development and should raise people's fears. Human society can develop only if it realizes that, after all, we are in this rut, women and men and blacks, and whites, and pink and blue, and all kinds of people. No matter what kind of symptoms we have, whether physical or spiritual, we are already in this crisis together. I don't think it's reflected in these clear patterns in feminists that they're only with women. I think in a world that would be clear about this, there should be a similar proportion of men and women in every feminist society. The incidence of skin lesions and skin flashes should be similar in any group or group that is in terms of improving the benefit and protection of racial memory groups. Christians should not only be careful of the rights of Christian interests and of their Muslim rights; atheists should be in it - and all of them. All of us are here to protect all rights and interests. Sadly, the world has to be set in order at times. We are, for example. Icelandic nationalities are elected by the Icelandic nation to care for Icelandic interests. The world isn't exactly cut and cut like that. If we're gonna put ourselves in an outcast, let's just put a little utopia on that thing together. So let's head for that dream and head away from the nightmare of opposition. Now some may feel that I have come a little wide, but my point is that this matter is probably based on those values. We should have done this a long time ago. This should never have happened at first. I'm not sure that it was just males who decided that women's products and contraception were in the top level of credit. I seriously doubt that there was thought of of of it above his head. Actually, I think it's exactly how it happened. And that includes the warning, we must adopt the care of one another's interests, other groups. We should not always put ourselves or people who share our physical or spiritual traits in the first place, as if they were necessarily in order. When it comes to rights, there is plenty of rights for everyone. It does not have to be a privilege. There is no difference between rights and laws. You don't have to do that. It's an inexhaustible resource, and we don't need to place any identifying groups in the first place or in the second place. We're all supposed to be in the first place together.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u136	Madam President. We're talking about a bill to legalize a change in the value tax law found on the ground since 1988, which has been changed all-air. We're here on a special, well-defined factor, menstrual products, and contraception. Despite the fact that we have been discussing this subject and changing the value tax several times, this has not been accomplished to this point even though I have been less effective in this regard. We're taking a good step. We are taking steps to expand our equality, and I allow myself to say that we show this respect to other people regardless of gender. I have reason to believe that the reduction of the value tax under this proposal in the bill will contribute to the growth of public health. Clearly, the tax on the products of the menstrual system affects only women, so there is great discrimination, a discrimination that is not good to see why women have been allowed to thrive for so long. It is also health that contraception is effective and affordable. As if it were good for a man. paritaprevir Of course, the Hrafn Drafni Gunnarsson should be no matter what gender we are. You see, in the current merit tax laws, condoms fall into a lower level of merit tax. Sadly, the same applies not to all forms of contraception but only to those mainly directed to men. So the change bill takes a positive step in an equalizing direction that is not to be taken into account, as I mentioned earlier. The reporters who sent in reviews of the bill all agreed, and they rejoiced that these products would be placed in a lower esteem tax level and everyone believes that this will have a positive effect on the sexual health of Icelanders. This is particularly likely to have a positive effect on women, since most forms of contraception are directed to them. As shown in the fine talk of the day. paritaprevir For example, since they are products, the market forces have greatly recovered from the provision of Friðbjörg's Elíasdóttir Albertína. All you can see is going around the market and watching the media, where this is very advertised and strikingly that these products are financially burdensome for women. Today's products are essential for most people who suffer from bleeding, and their use is neither luxury nor choice. So it is normal that a menstrual product should not enter the top level of a valuable tax and should even be the exception of a worthwhile extra tax. In this regard, governments in other countries have taken various routes, either reduced or decomposed valuable tax on menstrual products in an effort to increase the equation and to eliminate what we must, of course, consider to be irreprehensible expenses for those who suffer from bleeding. In many Western lands, it has been found that the so - called tourist penetty, with the permission of a president, has become a well - known term, i.e. when women or girls are so affected by this, that they cannot handle, e.g. school or work because they cannot afford to obtain this brand of product. This is known in the United Kingdom, where as many as 10% of women have been delayed in learning and working because they are retired because of this problem. There is no reason to believe that the situation in Iceland really is different. I have considered this from my point of view of weakness, but I believe that it is of good will. Over the years, we have observed that evolution in this area has resulted in comfort for women. We know the term leprechaun, or leprechaun, suggested to be changed into a digestive cup. It is a multi-use device that women have used for years. Hv. paritaprevir In his excellent review, the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson mentioned the need for us to consider some factors, including Review of commitment practices regulations and take into account factors in the definition of what is considered to be a complete or adequate setting for hygiene and beauty rooms, whether in public or at work. It is now accepted that the products of the menstrual system are essential hygienic products that are readily available, whether for financial purposes or not, should be in all washes. A respectable president. There may be no reason to reenact this subject. Of course, the union supports the progress of this case, believing it to be equal, public health, and steps to increase equality, as well as respect for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u137	Madam President. We will discuss small but very important matters in many sense of that word. Of course, there is reason to thank a 1st apostle, w. paritaprevir For and for all the multitude of the people of many categories, the Ævarsdóttir's daughter, seems to me who is behind her. I'm not there, it seems to me, but, anyway, I support, like the entire Group of the United States, this is a great deal. Of course, taking a basic stand with which it is easy for the sect to do so is just as difficult. We're talking about a way that makes it more likely to get even in the community, in this case gender equations. There are various forms of inequities. We know and talk a lot about poverty and property issues against which the Conspiracy speaks. We've developed our image of the tax system, including. him where we'd like to have a lot of taxes. We want to pay taxes to people according to their own abilities so as to be spared who have little between their hands, but they are made to pay more and more on their well - equipped intake and readily be able to do so. On the other hand, we would like to avoid much taxation when it comes to services and reimbursement; and therefore, we feel that such a warning, which is a basic warning that one's sex needs, is not burdensome for that sex. We are talking about birth control and, on the other hand, frequent products. The use of contraceptive measures has been primarily, and to an extreme extent, placed on the woman's shoulders, i.e. to be careful of premature conception. There are many studies that show that it affects their ability to work and to participate in society, has become slow to study, and so forth. It is good to use this opportunity to remind us men, too, that we need to take much more responsibility for that part of the matter. We're more than just reproductive tools, we're to be responsible for our actions and their consequences. That's one part of it. One is then the frequent products that assault only women in a most unjust way. Well, we're pretty comfortable thinking that it doesn't matter, and we're lucky to be in the West that most people can afford it pretty easily, but it does not justify unnecessary taxation on the product. We may want to remember that people may not be able to handle this. We do not have to look back many decades in time to realize that it was not, except for the natural nature of the product that the product has changed and developed. In the past, everything was so much more burdensome I was so lucky earlier this winter to get to know Malawi by night. paritaprevir Slagful Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir's daughter. It was both joyous and tragic to get to know these beautiful, colorful people, but at the same time, you realized that there is vast poverty. The community is also badly held by old - fashioned ideas and practices that do so, for example. Being on the road actually makes the girls unholy. They did not go to school. One of the things it takes to raise this beautiful fairy out of poverty is an increase in sex equality and encouragement to girls and women and to help them study. It involves both the prejudices associated with the period and allows the girls to have a cutback in order to change, change, and use long - term ties, and simply afford them. Perhaps we feel that it is possible to fly for 12 or 13 hours and meet with communities where little girls just can't afford it. On this trip they woke up, with the help of a national organization like Iceland and others in the West, a case to destroy what this is. They stood in the public square and sold a multiuse female bandage, as it were in my youth, to eliminate both the prejudices, as I said, but also to encourage girls to remain withdrawn and point out that they should not be prevented from going to school with a small child or a teenager to have to use such things. What was really fun about this was that it wasn't manufacturing or marketing companies that had been made out of this stock product that fit into the taste of their day, which makes it look like people don't exactly blush about taking the product and putting it in the box. Even though we made progress, we are still completely cursed. They made the goods, including in beautiful colors. It's mostly blue here. There were recently discussed talks that this is, for example, the case. Remarkably, it seems more expensive when it has a certain color because it should appeal to women rather than to men. We are here trying to unwind it with weakness, we can say work against the market elements that will always try to get more money from people and have found that the products that women have to use, in this case, can be higher because they need to be used. Right away. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Peace of Elíasdóttir's daughter discussed this difference of price according to whether the object was to appeal to women or men, and pink razors were considerably more expensive than blue razors. In the art history, the blue color is usually linked to women. The mey girl María was often dressed in white and blue, but Jesús and the men were in red. The color of innocence, purity, and the red color of strength and passion were blue. This was true after all centuries. It was a scandal in its own time when a painting was painted the Blue Prince, where a very innocent little boy, nine or ten, is wearing a blue suit, it was the woman's color. Then, only in the 19th century does this change, and the lines become less clear, and artists too become more bold to challenge today's attitudes. It's beginning to show that men are playing with this. Then it becomes part of some transformation, even among the common people. In 1918 the Ladies' Home Journal speaks of the general rule of pinkness for boys and blue for girls, because the pink color is stronger and more specific than the blue is more delicate, more sacate, as it may be. This too can be read in Time Magazine of 1927. Then, in 1940, the market elements begin to make it appear that pink is the color of girls and blue - colored boys. And if you know, that wasn't exactly the way it was to our day because from 1960 onward and 1970 into the liberal and women's revolution, the women came to realize it and to destroy it. It produced both genders, they were dressed as colors, often white or pale colors. Over the 1980's, it changed, and pink again became girls' color and blue boys' color. It is quite remarkable in itself, though I am only out of the material, to consider how prevailing political attitudes and economic changes can directly influence our attitude. The important thing is that we do not allow girls and women to pay extra taxes for situations created to them. We could go out on a wide range of personal activities. I have, for example. Never understood why the Allied Council of Iceland accepts that children or youths diagnosed with diabetes 1 are paid for that disease. One thing is that people have to pay the Mosaic Law or even suffer the consequences of living unhealthy lives, such as those who are overweight and middle - aged, may have to do, but another is when humans cannot do anything about how they are created. It's just a pretty big deal and a lot bigger than I think it's part of a Senate hall. We're also talking about sex health. We're talking about the sex health of women in this case. We're talking about women being able to control the time when they get pregnant and when not when those who were really worried about the approved pregnancy crisis bill and even thinking that invasive in all the first week of pregnancy would be such a big deal, perhaps they should have been here with us today and struggle to fight for this matter. This is, of course, that, together with information and a good bioavailability, there is no doubt a very effective way to reduce the occurrence of pregnancy breakes or a choice on the part of a woman. Of course, such products are not to be slightly lowered; they should be accessible. I'm afraid some senators would be shocked if they had broken next to the toilet downstairs and you had to put a bitch in it if you were going to use toilet paper. It's generally considered a product that's a vacation in the public room, and I would have thought that the frequent products were even of that nature that, in time, they should also be available to all women and free, at least at work, at school, and in other places. It can be a big deal, that I know as a husband, and the changes in my drive or walk to a town may need to be made if they suddenly find out that these products have been forgotten. I think this is a lot more than we men in general understand. We pretend to understand it and want to put ourselves in that situation, but I'm afraid we would be very happy if we realized the real consequences for women's everyday lives. Most important, I am glad that men are involved in this discussion. If we are harmed by a desire to achieve racial equality, we are also responsible for the absence of such injustice. A paper with the bill speaks of the so - called tourist crisis. I mentioned earlier how the most painful form of travel is, such as those little girls in Africa who do not dare to attend school because of prejudice and who simply cannot afford to buy these products. But as our community is in Iceland, I'm sure there's also an example of traveling around here, i.e. We have not, despite being the 10th or 11th richest society in the world, have built up an agreement for the standard of living that everyone can afford to snatch out of his wallet a 1,200 or a 1,500 call at regular intervals to buy products that should, of course, be taken for granted. I hope after this careful, relatively long review today, the case will be accepted. Despite the fact that this is only the government environment that is fighting this issue and burns it in a chamber, I think it is relatively fine among all the many men and as much as women in the board. Finally, I must thank you. Ævarsdóttir And I just have to say at the end that if there's anything, it should have been more than a third energy pack.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u138	Mr. President. I'm not gonna have a lot of words about this good stuff. It is simply very good and was not complicated. Although this idea was often spoken against for the alleged misunderstanding, it was once found to be extremely simple to implement it. This is a public health issue, but not least an urgent equality issue. All of the Parliament's reverends support that whole mind. I also agree with the speaker before me, or why. paritaprevir Although they have been identified with a significant delay in their speech today, the members of the board of directors of the United States, the Logi Einarsson, agree that members of the administrative committee agree. Although the subject was not long or extensive, the majority of them had somehow disappeared from the Hall of Congress and hardly taken up a single matter. But on this point, there was a very good interpolitian economic and business partnership, and I believe that more than all members of the committee are involved in this and thus support the case. It is only to be expected that the matter will be successful in the Hall of Congress and that it will be adopted with the overwhelming majority of the votes that are well understood. What a joy it will be when we reach that goal! Because we have often talked about these different categories, e.g. the number of such cases, in tops and belows, would be very happy if shops were taken in this country. We see that shopping is taking its own initiative to strengthen its appearance and to show a more responsible attitude toward consumers. More than anything else, it is a source of joy that the store's environmental consciousness has increased in recent months. It would be happy to have shops put together to eliminate the so - called pink tax when it comes to the different prices of completely uniform products marketed to men and women. I'm always as interesting to watch like that. On these different razor prices to men and women, depending on whether they are pink or blue. We saw in a recent study, which I think was done on the behalf of Stopr 2, examples of oralwash for children, Hello Kitty for boys or Batman for boys who were different prices, were more expensive for the girls, without concern. Many examples illustrate the same. It would be a cause for rejoicing if the trade of the country agreed to eliminate this very different price of uniform goods and to take additional steps to reduce or eliminate the so - called pink tax. Of course, it would be fun at the end if the greater part of this section could emphasize that the matter would be supported by a majority of members of the council by coming only in short speeches to confirm it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u139	A respectable president. We're talking about a bill to correct the change in terms of worth tax laws, with subsequent changes (addresss and contraception). I'm one of the supporters of this bill, and I support it whole mind, and I think it's one small step in the right direction. As we have seen during the discussion, our valuable tax system is a little jungle and discriminating people on the economy. Another factor that came up is that we have the second most valuable value tax system in the world, which is a disgrace to us. That's not good. The less money a person earns and needs to survive, the greater the impact he or she has on the valuable tax system, and especially on those on minimum wages or pension payments. Everyone realizes that this means that each dollar is enormous. We didn't talk that long ago about pregnancy break and a new set of laws. There was the shocking conclusion and the fact that there are about 1,000 fractures each year that are not medically available. Only 40 of these procedures were performed for medical reasons and 1,000 for other reasons. That alone should have rang many bells and did so, especially for me. I asked myself and also here at the council why we had not responded and did something. We need to realize that we have drug - dependent people in our society. These people will rarely buy contraceptive measures or receive permanent contraceptive measures. Hence, the next step in this matter, of course, is that the looping and other permanent contraception simply cost those who want it. I don't think so, really. If these were absolutely harmless, if only the person could come to the doctor and get this permanent method of contraception without cost, I believe that pregnancy break would be dramatic. We're talking about menstrual products that, of course, are supposed to be a self-centered item on the room, especially I would count on health care and in school. In fact, there's nothing to be taken for granted but that the saleres are self-employed for those who need this, and this is to be free. We should not be arguing about whether the merit of these products is too high or too low, but should be our next step to make sure that anyone in need of these products can get them in a free and easily receive them. We have various things here for animals. The honor tax is the second highest in the world. We need to think a little bit over the question of who needs the needed attention and cannot be without it. From that, we own, for example. to limit taxes, such as credit taxes and other things. Consider an example. It is inconceivable that two people overshot with police traffic and get guilty of the same guilt, say a hundred thousand dollars. A fine. One of them has $300,000. in pay, but the other person may have 2◯3 million in salary. Who is being punished more? Of course, the one with a lower salary. As a result, the person is rewarded with a much higher guilt than the prizer. This arrangement is all over our system. We also have this, perhaps another way of turning it in the personality rhythm system. A personality discount for a person with 200,000,300,000 francs. This month is of immense importance, but for the person with 2◯3 million, it is a very small part of his advancement. It is also a question of how to conduct education in connection with contraception. It also includes these 1,000 pregnancy break-ups, which are carried out every year. We are talking about three or four breaks of pregnancy a day, and this tells us that there is something wrong, including instruction. How important it is, then, that we pursue education in school and make contraception more accessible at the same time! It will also give you an immediate choice of permanent contraception that will last for a certain length of time and that they will be free of charge. It's also a question that over the head there's only any method of contraception available for those who want it. I'd imagine it wouldn't be that expensive, and I think it would definitely pay off for society. It's amazing that we should, for example. Do not have better access. We could, for example. gives us a much better access, and we make good use of the new web of health, which is an excellent enterprise. I'm once again going to encourage people to examine him because they can go in there and be in real time, lying around with a doctor. We know that young people are highly computerized by telephone, and it is very easy to access this site. There, too, it would be possible to make sure that a single knock on the phone would allow for birth control, or for free of menstrual products, and it is especially necessary to start by setting it up in such a way that all clinics, everywhere, offer these products without payment. We are not far enough in helping out those who need help, and we are somewhere in no man's land. We've lost track of time. We've forgotten what we've done, I'd say, the worst solution. We've come to terms with the most difficult and frightening solution that can be, that it's somehow easy and sure of it, about the break in pregnancy. But we forgot to start at the right end, making sure that nobody has to break a pregnancy. It must be, as I've said before, the scariest decision possible to have to leave and intend to go on the process of living. We are under obligation to find all ways first and to make sure that no one, preferably no one, except in every need, has to choose the course to take on this difficult course. That is, as I say, the first step of this bill. How is it that these products have produced a higher value tax than many other less needed products? How could we ever develop such a system? It tells us that the same is true of other products. We must take full reimbursement of the tax system and make sure that life - sustaining products, products that are needed for daily living are not taxpaying people for money. Because of poor financial options, people may have to make a choice. Can I afford this product or not? It claims that a person who is in pensions from the state's insurance agency, which is over 212,000, has to pay rent, 165,000 bucks, and then all other fees, doesn't have much to pay. I know that people can be thanked for having 500 bucks. magazines a day. How, then, should a person go about buying other basic items that he or she needs? It tells itself that he starts with food, can't help but use this small coin for food, and must, of course, reject other things, including the human rights of seeking medical treatment, going to the doctor, buying and paying medication. This is what we're dealing with. We are taking steps to make sure that people can afford those products. But we have to go much further. Although this bill is a very good step in one direction, it is not a solution for everyone. So we need to do everything we can to find out how to obtain the necessities, these and other items we are talking about, so that economics or too busy rations and benefits from the government do not cause people to refuse to take advantage of things that are good for all, those who have them in this community, probably feel that they can approach.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u140	A respectable president. I have to admit that I feel only now that I may be in 1965 when one older man comes up and talks about the affairs of women and the female body in a very broad, even unexpected way. I'm one of them. I have come first and foremost to celebrate this matter and to express my heart for its support. However, I do not agree with what was presented earlier. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson, in which he associated this product with a recent case of pregnancy break. I don't think it all costs a perfect analogy or a connection, but it is the function of the female body and that the woman herself is in control of that function and knows best what that function is. In case of a moment. A senator would like to suggest that women in general view of a pregnancy break in place of birth prevention, I believe it to be quite misunderstandingd and not only an awareness of what this procedure means for women but also what it means for them as well as an ignorance of the lot of women who undergo such an operation. But I'm not gonna have more to say about it. In fact, it is in some ways that we are discussing this matter in the year 2019 because you feel that such a product is still taxed in this way, and it is long time to accept that it is not some kind of luxury or unnecessary product to be taxed as such. In some communities it is so, like a cot. Einarsson Before that, the idea of humanistic and religious ideology is viewed by women who wear clothes, as if in some way they are unclean, who are not in houses capable, and who should not even be kept in isolation somewhere. During my present taxation, I feel overwhelmed by some kind of attitude toward them. A member of the Committee to Re-Elect. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir, sign the opinion of the committee in advance. It does not mean that it does not support the bill, for it does, but she wants to emphasize it with her warning, which she will no doubt account for at 3rd. This case, that the entire valuable tax system needs to be reimbursed. It points out that as the exception increases on the system, the more difficult it will be. Then there are all kinds of questions about why not this and why not. She wants to emphasize the general view that the merit of the tax system is not a good equation device. Rather, it is better to do this through the income tax system. I think I've finished most of my part in this sermon. I've made an advance notice of what. Harðardóttir I believe I have explained my view of the matter. In my opinion, I repeat, there is a great deal and a good deal of interest. This is very important equality and public health.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u141	A respectable president. Thank you for my names, man. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Thorsson Thorson, for a good speech. I'd like to say anything to him about what he said he didn't agree with me about, which I think was the best thing about pregnancy breaking. He spoke of the self - determination rights of women. My thought was that it must have a tremendous impact on a woman's body to make a decision to break a pregnancy. All I was pointing out was that this is the last thing I would ever want for them to decide. I can't imagine what a good decision it is that's made to be in it. We know that certain individuals in this society are dealing with addiction, and addiction takes everything. There is no money else; addiction lies ahead. I'm just thinking that they can go to a clinic and get free long - term birth control methods to prevent the terrible situation of having to break. I just think of it in a good way that we teach youth, that we give her free access to contraception. I don't know if it works, but I think it would be an antidote for 1,000 abortions a year, three to four a day.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u142	Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for this reaction. I know we don't share our views on pregnancy violations, and I completely accept that. On the other hand, I believe that in some way we agree that it is urgent and good for people who are in a crisis, those who are addicted or in some sort of crisis, to get free contraception, and usually to help with all the help they need, and to make life easier. In fact, I believe that contraception should be offered at all levels and for which most people are and for nothing. But I was only using these words to challenge the tendency to place a match between pregnancy and I'm not sure that it was necessarily intended. A senator, and then again not having access to contraception, because I would like to protest that people use pregnancy breakes as a sort of late contraception.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u143	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It wasn't the thought, it never occurred to me for a minute, not a second, that someone was going to use pregnancy break as a contraceptive. I was just thinking about them for some reason, because of addiction, not getting on contraception. I was thinking about people who have a very low pay, pay, and other options and who take a chance on a lack of money. It sucks to know that someone cannot because of his financial situation get on contraception. That's what I'm thinking about. I'm thinking about individuals in this position, in which society has already put them by having their salary so low that they can't afford to buy the things they need. As we know, the forwarding of the government's insurance agency, which is under normal standards, is not poverty, but very limited, it is so low. It would be normal for these individuals to be able to access and receive this service free of charge, whether for single use or for long term contraception. I'm asking why. A senator whether he agrees. It's never the thought of playing into that you can't afford to get things to yourself.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u144	Thank you. In answer to this question, a senator wholeheartedly accepts his statement that, of course, poor people and poor people are to be given the opportunity to enjoy minimal parts of their lives, such as birth control. It is also very important to increase our knowledge of God's Word. I agree with that. However, I reiterate that as I understand the bill, perhaps the main point of this matter is that taxing is not taxing what women really need because of their physical activity; that taxing him not as luxury care. But that is what we do, and that is what it is to correct matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u145	A respectable president. I think that any assignment we perform here at the council is more noble than working toward the fact that society will be well done that there will be no violence here. This has not been the main subject of the politics for a long time, but the community has developed and the council has joined in and the council proposal that we address here, on a plan for the actions against violence and the consequences of which are important in getting us toward a nonviolence society. This case has been very much discussed in the General Information and Education Committee. It's, for example. to mention that there were 35 reviews at the proposal, and it was discussed at 14 meetings of the General and Education Committee, and we attended the meeting of countless guests, where each one contributed a great deal to the case. What we have in our hands is a reference to 32 pages, which includes six more pages of change. All of this, I believe, is over the average Congress that comes through, but it also reflects the wideness and importance of the subject. Besides thanking the members of the committee who have attended this meeting and who have taken the matter to heart, I may thank all the guests who have contributed. I cannot help but mention the secretary of the committee who held all the threads and produced this text, which is the value of one BA-writer in length. There our secretary, Elisabeth Partriarca Kruger, draws attention to all the different viewpoints that appeared in a somewhat different way. The committee's opinion gives a clear picture of what took place on a global and educational committee. The proposal we have here is rooted in three plots that began to work together in 2014, based on a declaration of cooperation by three Ministers. A meeting with stakeholders, institutions, and members of society was then held in January 2016, and this work resulted in the proposal. I may be especially involved in the battle against violence because it has been the root of the discussion of the scope and nature of violence in the community. It was the Red Socks and the Women's Art that made these cases powerful for the political scene here, 40,650 years ago, and it has been an organization such as the Women's Apostolia and Gangs, which have especially attracted attention to sexual violence and sexual abuse. Then we have had to expand our frames each year, allowing different types of violence to become evident, violence against children, domestic violence, and violence against various peripheral groups, such as disabled, elderly, or queer people. None of this has probably been, and all of this has been based on the work of grass sublingual motions. The suggestions we address here are given at a time where the latest subversive movement has been at work, including the Drain or informal self - induced conflicts, such as Free the Nipple, which brought attention to what we call today digital sexual abuse, known as the annual vendetta. It is proper to mention this because in the synonym's work it is still used as a form of vendetta that we have since gone away in recent years and are more likely to talk about digital sexual abuse. It reflects well how this group of languages is in its season that the terms are changing year by year, and we do not necessarily have an enormously established grass - based movement but a spontaneous conflict in which the need simply calls for action. One example is the #metoo movement that called attention to sexual violence and sexual harassment here in 2017. It might be noted that using Instangram as the term "frepider " is used to highlight the lack of ability of men to view teenage girls online, since they are asking for nude photos or something else from women and often very young girls. What may mark all the work on this proposal is how much action is needed in favor of a cross-collar line. Fighting violence in the way suggested by the proposal would not have decades ago, though very radical in various political groups, would not have been enough. It may also help us to appreciate more fully the scope of violence as a community. This is in the opinion of the committee where, for example, it should be considered. reports that in winter the investigation of women's history showed that a quarter of women have been raped or attempted rape in their lives. The same ratio has been applied to physical violence. Just before we supplied the proposal from an General Education Committee, the UNICEF figures showed that 16.4% of children are exposed to physical or sexual violence before they reach 18 years of age. There are shadowy figures and for interested persons on shadowing numbers, and for interested persons, this is an ensuing document for the Committee to publish figures from the study, health and well - being of the Icelanders since 2012 and 2017 that the governor's office has had to do every five years. These are figures that have not appeared this way before. It reveals that violence is a huge problem. On the basis of these data, the General and Education Committee was able to unite in driving this issue. What may be lacking in the plan directly related to this assessment is the focus of research and innovation in this area, helping to strengthen the development of the university community in terms of magnitude and also on the best way to cope with violence. We mention some of the research projects carried out by the police working together with the university community, informing the community in several areas, perhaps especially in the case of the service to the sexual abuses of the North East police. The University of Akureyri has been there to help them develop a new kind of work to improve the trauma resulting from sex offenders. That's why we've put some emphasis on improving these sources, the college community, into plans as partners. This plan is the first general plan for action against violence and its consequences in the Icelandic community. It is important that we do not view it as an endpoint of any kind. It has touched on many other social and other aspects of the government and part of the criticism entered the board of the General and Education Committee just turned around to the fact that certain things were not covered by this program. Often there were points to consider in other areas. You can, for example, do so. mention the struggle against a man - made dealer. This program involves human tolerance but the battle against man-seller has an independent plan for the Ministry of Justice that is relevant to this program, but the main weight of law enforcement in human halls is the nature of the case. Another example is a review of the treatment of sexual abuse, which is in a special staff at the Ministry of Premiers these days, and therefore is not in this program. What really matters, however, when work is started on this strategy is reaching out for all that is going on in other parts of the management system, so that this program can be the center of what is being done in the fight against violence. Another factor that came up in many reviews was criticism of inadequate consultation with stakeholders in preparing the programme, and in part it can be explained by the long term pregnancy in the schedule. It was a preparatory meeting in January 2016, but the proposal is made for a council two and a half years later. The overcoming of this period of time has not been to allow people to experience particularly extensive consultations in the process. It is important that, now that we have the planned schedule, some form of communication will be made. In fact, it is one of the operations that will be a annual meeting for measures against violence and its consequences and in the Commission's opinion that this meeting is an important site for all the stakeholders, all of these subsidiary groups, to be able to assemble with the administrative, university and other institutions and the executives, to detect and include. what is at the top, what new problems and challenges must be faced. The fight against violence is, so I drop, a respectable president, a work in progress. This is a constantly changing project that is growing, and this program is not designed to be moulded in stone that it does not follow the need. Another thing that was often discussed in the reviews and the discussion of the Committee was the financing of the strategy. Most guests agreed that the total amount of money required for effective dosing is sufficient. This is about 300 million in the period in question. Most of it comes from the Department of Social Affairs, but it may be important in this context, as if we have to look to all the other programs that are running and related to this plan, to look at all the other activities that are going on, and to realize that the money on the earmark in this program is not all the money the public puts in the fight against violence and its consequences. In addition, there are measures in the schedule that are not likely to result in a revised budget. You can, for example. Consider this meeting of national meetings, which I discussed just moments ago about action against violence and its consequences. The cost is estimated to be 1 million per meeting. Anyone who has held large conferences knows that much needs to be changed so that the cost can run a lot to or fro. Then there is the B.3 operation, the authority to obtain information from the state criminal record, which is regarded as nonprofit. In other words, it falls within the budget of the recruitment process. This action is simply a matter of finding the way to ensure access to the criminal record that he needs. Then, when that route is discovered, it will likely be undertaken by some project that can be expected to result in cost. The important thing about this is that responsible workers view the target to be met and then work within their means to plan that the budget for these tasks is in line with that objective. So we on the committee do not go into some accounting slips to find out if coffee is to be held at an annual meeting of national meetings or lunch, whether to invite 100 people or 300. This will be left to the members of the project in the years that will be carried out. At that time, we were made aware of a number of things that were not part of the plan. A discussion of these points is here at the end of the committee, so we actually direct it to those who plan to examine these points for the next ones. These may be the subject of the annual meeting of the national meetings, and we are talking about factors such as the connection between alcohol or drug abuse and violence, the safety of dance clubs, the violence against self - righteous people. There's a lot of work to do. We're not going to pretend that this plan is going to cover everything right here and now, but it's a step in that direction. A respectable president. As you understand, this brief speech cannot cover all the teams and all the changes made by the Committee. I'd like to bring up a few people in particular. First, let me mention that this six - page conversion document of the Committee is as far as it really is, for technical reasons, most of it is. Plans were divided up after the plan was submitted, and then we're working with the local partners and we're synchronizing this. The biggest changes we make would say there are five or six, and I want to name them. First, I'd like to discuss only one action team that the committee discussed as there is no special change, just word change, but it's the point of A.6 which deals with the teaching on sex practices and sexual behaviors in basic and high school schools. The discussion of this factor revealed that some measures are needed outside this schedule. This was especially evident in young people we met at the Committee and the people who work with young people in the educational and social centres and so forth, teaching about sex and sexual behavior and interracial relationships, e.g. Accepts and boundaries, needs to be greatly improved at all levels and to see if it needs to be moved down the river. We believe that we can surmise well with the review of the main study log set out by the Ministry of Education and Culture, and we'll discuss some of the views presented. Then I'd like to mention point A.11, which is a new part of the plan from what the minister originally proposed. Team A.11 covers the creation of centres for child abuse and is, in effect, a response to a UNICEF report on the status of children since May, which I mentioned earlier. This is a center led by the Department of Social Affairs that is supposed to be the key to keeping track of information, research, statistics, and other aspects of child abuse. The lack of information was found in the UNICEF assessment. When we're talking about as serious a thing as violence against children, it's hard to find that there's no information available and that's why we're putting up an additional measure of this operation. Then I'd like to mention the B.3 operation on the authority of the institutions and members of society to collect information from the criminal record of the state. This point I'd like to mention because the need for this project has been made, not just in this discussion, but three or four other cases for a General and Education Committee in the winter. Children - whether school, sports, Boy Scouts, or whatever - care organisations - are calling for much more minor systems to call for information from a criminal record to provide adequate safety for the children involved in the analysis of the criminal record of employees. This study is very timely, and after it is called very soon. Then I'd like to mention Operation B.4 which, as a Minister's motion, is known to be a conspiracy in criminal affairs, was not a great deal of luck for reporters at first sight. A major difference of opinion is whether a head is appropriate to use a form of communication in violent matters. A communication suggests that two persons settle down and become reconciled, and this does not mean that even if there is a possibility of finding a place in other causes of violence, there is no health involved. When we discussed the matter with the Ministry, we found that we agreed. The Ministry is looking into reconciliation in broad contexts regarding other forms of criminal activity other than violent cases. We suggest that there be upbuilding justice here in criminal affairs where reconciliation can be one of the factors. The key is to experience the execution of justice. What needs to be examined on the other side may especially be the case with young doers, who will be searched for ways to guide them in the right direction, while some form of punishment takes place so that bacteria can be taken and directed in the right direction as soon as possible. Then I'd like to correctly mention C.14's team, which is a second factor and has the title review of this action plan, and we feel very important that this plan is not an end, but in a formal process, it will be adopted and reviewed and retraced, that before this event falls, a new plan will be submitted with even more ambitious goals and even more capital.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u146	The president wants to be very kind. A senator of the Icelandic word remained.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u147	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for a great and extensive speech, i.e. Enlightenment. I have to say, it's probably one of the most detailed and elegantst places I've ever seen in my time at the council, which is actually not a very long time. However, well done, compliments to the General and Education Committee for that. Not only did I want to come up here to commend the committee but I also wanted to ask questions. As a regional senator, so I use the word, which may not be quite correct, for, of course, we are members of the entire country, I would like to ask about the procedure C.3, support to the service center for the tolerance of violence in the Northland. I would like to curiously inquire about the discussion on the committee. At the National Service Center for Trustees in Akureyri located in Akureyri, the police, the hospital, and the force who have done an enormously important job but are only on a annual contract. It's always a way to make longer contracts with the Afghans. Of course, it's great that the Service Center can get to the right direction, but did it not come up with the help of putting the Power in as well as trying somehow to improve its existence? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u148	A respectable president. I thank you for the answer and I'd like to mention the Service Center for Violence in the Northern Country because that project was pushed out of place while the proposal was being discussed in the General and Education Committee. By the time the proposal came to the Committee, there had been 6 million earmarks on that project. In the meantime, another 6 million were found, and the project may reflect how much is going on in many governments while we are doing it. In support of our team, we did not specifically examine support to any group. Here may be the broad stroke of the plan, but support for a group is something -- now I always forget where I have this. In fact, it is two things that we nose. On the one hand, we have an equal reserve for the next five years, which has, in part, emphasized the importance of strengthening anti - violence projects. Then we have the support of a body of advisers who are not at all cost in the plan but who might start fighting that ministers will be able to raise each year. It would be possible to review some form of service contracts between recruitment and social organizations, such as those we know in various areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u149	President. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for the answer. I'd like to ask him about the following questions as to whether he won't agree with me that it's very important to secure the existence of an organization like the Grand African who's doing an extremely important job, not just for Akureyri, but for Northern America all, and even for the East. I know why. A senator knows as well as I do the importance of the service as close to the one to whom it is possible and therefore important that such a service, as it is available, be in general and really sad that the power that has ever worked, has not been placed on solid financial laws, such as Step meets, or at least Bring a long-term service contract to the Ministry, like what? A senator mentioned. I see that here is the chairman of a financial committee. If I could blink properly with one eye, I would do it now to draw attention to the importance of this matter. I hope he does, even though I don't blink exactly. But I was going to talk to him. The manager, not the chairman of the budget board, and I'd like to grab off here a little bit. I visited the Service Center in Akureyri recently, where I mentioned the very important issue in which women's reactions are needed in the country, and I thought that even if they were not formally taken to work once when I went to visit, she would feel the need for them when they were needed. I'd like to hear it. The writer of the case is merely a guide to the importance of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u150	A respectable president. Of course, any subversive organization that fights violence should be strengthened to accomplish the good work they do, whether it is the power or what else. In fact, I think this operation plan can be a good start point for such support. Here we are, for example. with point C.6, to support regional consultation on action against violence. The Senator referred to the National Service Center for Tolerance and the ongoing project to evaluate the need for other comparable resources in the region. The situation of people differs greatly from whether they live in the urban area in southwest or in the scattered areas. In these matters, it is very important to keep our sights on the land and realize that these struggles do not necessarily have the same laws. And, as a matter of fact, I think there's a lot of activities in the plan that took place. Now I think I forgot the second question. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u151	...about the women's disappearance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u152	Yeah, with the women's disappearance. Since this is the first action program against violence and its consequences, there is a great deal about assessing the need. The number of women's reactions we need throughout the country is one of them. It will be exciting to see how this work continues and how it will look when the next program is coming to take over a more detailed picture of what is needed to respond to the need. Today, that is not known enough. This is one of the ongoing challenges we face in these matters, the list of information available.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u153	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson is very impressed with his thorough and excellent review of this matter, which is most clearly said to be extensive and will address various factors that I will mention in speech. But I held back, and I especially wanted to ask him why. A member of the general and educational committee of criminal reconciliation. Hv. A senator spoke of representatives of the Ministry of Justice who came and spoke of the fact that there was little point in agreeing with violence in close relationships or that it was more difficult to do so there, that there could be a complicated issue because there was a conflict of power between individuals. For that reason, I'd like to ask you why. A member of Congress whether it has been discussed, in which it is the same Ministry and Children's Law, to cancel the requirement for reconciliation in custody, at home, between parents involving parental violence and child abuse.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u154	A respectable president. I want to start by correcting, I've obviously not made it clear enough that it wasn't the Ministry of Justice that said it couldn't be used to compromise in these matters, but it reflects the coverage published in the reviews and in all the sources who came to the Committee. Whether we view the educational community or the subversive organization that came to us, there are differing opinions. Generally, there was an ambiguous compromise which, in the most gross cases, would be saying, but perhaps it was the best thing about when it would be available, where there was a calm sea to communicate in order to get ashore, and both sides could understand the matter in such a way that they themselves were at peace with the outcome, not so that they agreed with each other. This was sometimes mentioned in the case of a patient outcome. But upbuilding justice may be what helps, since it is in part about building up doers after the end. Regarding the need for reconciliation in matters involving custody of children, I can't remember that we've talked about it, but maybe it's just for the assignment that was here, and we have other things to consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u155	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to know the answer. In many ways, I agree, and I appreciate that this was shown in the case of the stakeholders, members of society, or agents who know best about the field of violence, who are familiar with the causes of tolerance, that it has been said how important it is that all such reconciliation is on the grounds of sexual tolerance. It's all about, you know, that we're primarily thinking about what's in the best way. That is why I also asked about it, and I understand that there is more to it than that. Yet, there are a number of break - ups that differ from those of many. Some are simply very important to be recognized directly from a doer that he or she has committed a crime. I completely understand the idea of criminal reconciliation, but I also want to know if something has been discussed with the child about reconciliation. There's not talking about reconciliation, maybe more about the coerpera. [[The president calls.]] Was this the subject of domestic violence directed against a child?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u156	A respectable president. I wholeheartedly agree with what the senator mentioned, that the reasons need to be fragile in the outcome. That is exactly what drove us on to change the objective of this action force, which involved reconciliation. The objective was to improve the scope of reconciliation. What we're offering in return is expanding it. In some cases, communication may be appropriate, but increasing it can not be the sole objective of this procedure but the fact that upbuilding justice will become what is practitiony. In some cases, it may be a reconciliation. Hv. One member mentioned an example of parental violence, which was just discussed on the committee, as an example of cases where reconciliation may be necessary and the only way for a person to continue in a family relationship with a person. Taking a parent to court can be a very important decision. But if there is any other option that brings the sufferer the same lenientness in the matter, whether it is a compromise or something else, that is exactly what we were told to consider. This will probably be one of the points that will be considered under these operations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u157	Mr. President. This is a very important and important subject that we are considering, an action plan against violence, and the consequences of it. First thing I want to do is thank you. A prominent historian, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, for the history and work of the matter and for the fact that the secretary of the General and Education Committee did a very good job. Violence in all forms is a serious social ill that we have to fight by any means necessary. This program contains a number of relevant factors. I signed the commission in advance with two other members, and I want to start with that. A manager wrote a few words about the financing, correctly, and pointed out that it might not be sufficient but did not consider it wise to take on a particular point or to review the amount of money that would be needed. I agree that it is not possible for the committee to begin identifying individual tasks precisely and costs, etc. The whole plan is very ambitious, and it is good and very good, and its goals are noble, and many of them are elevated, both to a number of projects and to the desired results. On the other hand, I think, and it says in the advance, that for those who are either going to be assigned to a project or for whom the projects are being carried out, they may raise the hopes and expectations of those whose expectations are then difficult to live up to. I don't think it's good to cause tension and dissatisfaction when people start to read about what to do and what to pursue, but then they really lack money. It is also appropriate to mention it, as shown in the case of a person. ... thatit'saboutthat. 293 million spread over four years as planned. But it is also worth noting that many projects are said within the framework of the advisers or financial programs. Of course, these projects vary, but it is a source of concern that such a large proportion of the materials should be included within the available framework. 'My concern for this has not been reduced in view of the fact that there is now a new financial program being announced, and there's a lot to it that needs to be maintained, I'm going to say it carefully. Thus, experience has often shown that such tasks, sometimes called the softer, become a bit of an advantage or a cutback. I think that's right for us now. Senators should be on guard when they arrive, that there is a table there to handle these tasks, and they will not suffer for what may need to be done in a financial program. Violence is serious. It is revealed in various ways in our community and is a work that we all reasonably need to fight. This must be done by various measures. As shown in the introduction to the committee, a study of health and well - being is published. It shows that it is frightening to see, and parallel figures can be read from police data on sexual violence, that 30% of women aged 183/444 years claim to have been sexually abused. It's a very striking figure and against this needs to be won. I'd like to kill on a few things outside the financial structure that I'm not going to do anymore as a publicity material. There is a good deal of information about the #metho as well as the effect that this wave has had and more spontaneous movements to draw attention to these issues. How important it is that such self - righteous groups act and listen to them! I am also glad that the committee agrees. I'm going to give a witness, with the permission of the President, on the committee opinion that covers the #methoo movement at the end of that section: The question highlights the importance of responding to the scope of harassment and the violence that was exposed in the #methoo movement, especially in the labour market, and the right to perform an extensive task, which is also needed. to include a progressive education on gender, sexual freedom, self - determination rights, and the importance of consent in sexual relations. I think it is extremely important that people can be instructed and guided, both by public enlightenment, and especially by the systems that deal with all these issues. It's a B-section procedure, I think it's a very important procedure. It speaks of promoting the education of violent cases for those who operate within the justice system. When we talk about the justice system, we're talking about anything from the police that comes on the scene, the case, the treatment for the courts and the health system, and no matter where it goes through, until the judgment comes down. The challenge is immensely important. In this context, I would like to mention a key factor in dealing with the sexes and what to do and where the normal limits are and when normal relationships, normal sex, change from being and becoming violent. These boundaries are very important to set clearly. I allow myself to mention in this context the changes made in penalties over a year ago, in which the definition of rape was changed and consent is clearly stated. This change in law alone will not change the treatment of rape completely, nor will it result in the formation of condemnation, e.g. quickly or suddenly, it will be much easier to finish such a matter. Still, the charges must be proved, and the principle that the defendant is innocent is proved, of course, in that case. Nevertheless, this is a petition made by the Lawgiver regarding the spirit of the law. It is very important that the spirit of the law spreads itself into society, and it can become the basis for a good discussion and a transformation in many areas. In effect, the penalties of rape, as it were, were widely read for the common people or for those who were not legalists, whatever it is about raping. But with the changes made, it is clear that sexual relations without consent are rape, and this is said to be very direct. This is important, and this is an important foundation for many areas in which these things can be spoken clearly. In this context, I would like to mention that the person mentioned here has proposed a synoptic proposal, which, as a matter of course, has not yet been established on the council but, nevertheless, is already available, in part, to what is being discussed in the program against the violence we are discussing. It is taken in a more decisive way than the plan allows us to turn our energy into the courts to educate there and provide funds for it. However, the suggestion also goes much further because it also speaks of the education system and all the schools there, both students and teachers. More important, it is a new channel of free partnerships who are concerned, in the media, and in other organizations. It also expects to spend a considerable amount of money on such a journey. It was considered that our neighbors, or neighbors may be well along, but our brothers and sisters, who live in Sweden, shortly after the Icelanders changed their penalties and adopted this agreement, did the same. But they decided to comply with the legal adjustment with a great effort that is directed right into the legal system, into the school system. This is so in order to follow the revised law that these matters should be addressed and handled in a different way, and everyone understands the violence. It is extremely important that we do so. I think it's very important that we think about how important it is to put these messages into all aspects of society. Sweden spends a lot of money on that project. The suggestion that I have with me, with other whisks. Congress officials have suggested what Sweden does, but we share it a little, taking into account an appeal number and that we are much less of a community. Nevertheless, there is a careful estimate that this type of project requires at least 150 million. K. in three years if they are to live up to their names. I say this to put it in perspective with the funding found in the program to counteract violence, but still this area is much more narrow than the plan assumes. There was a reference to something I'm interested in, and it's discussed under B.4, the Communication Act. The word itself, the reconciliation, and it was expressed only in the case of a layman, and then in opposition to the point. paritaprevir Helgú Vólva Helgadóttir, according to the word, that an agreement is made between parties. I've only studied reconciliation, i.e. I'm going to change only words, but what is called upbuilding justice. True, this term appears in the committee opinion and is an excellent translation, or is to some extent translated into English, by permission of the president, the ◯Correated Jussticic SCICE. In some cases, upbuilding justice can be applied to a person whose eyes are directed to both offenders and doers. As the translation gives reasons, efforts are being made to build up. In serious sexual crimes, upbuilding justice is not at all thoughtless as any kind of reconciliation or some way of dealing with the violent person or in any way forgiving him. This, however, is thought to be part of the recovery of the broken - down ability to the extent possible. That's exactly what it's done, like what's happened. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir came in, that the perp, or violent, confronts his crime. It is of utmost importance to be recognized as a victim of violence. And to some extent, it is also in this matter of accepting the fact that the violence that took place and the case is about that matter was in no way responsible for the wrongdoing. It is the violent man who is responsible for his wrongdoing. That's the way it's supposed to be. On the other hand, sitting face - to - face with a victim or a broken victim can also be upbuilding to the violent man and discern the consequences of his wrongdoing. It can also help him to face himself and possibly recover. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u158	A respectable president. This is very extensive, for all the hard things in the community. It's not the soft thing. It's the hard things in the community. I'd like to start with that, and do it like a cot. paritaprevir Thanks to John Valdimarsson. A pilot, w-w. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, for his good work on the case, and like the member of the Committee Editor for an excellent job preparing this particular opinion that I'm signing with a warning like that. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson does about financing, which I might do a little later. First, I'd like to say that it is very important for the Council to take over this case, declaring that violence in any form is an intolerable social ill that will be handled with all means. This in itself is very important, precious, and good. There's no question that this plan is very ambitious. It's in 28 teams, and they're all very important. There are many things that can be added, especially that consultations may have been better with various relevant groups of groups, but we must establish hopes that it will be improved when the programme is carried out and that it will be carried out in close agreement with those groups. The password may seem to me to be what is the red thread and the translucency and is very important, i.e. Education and information that we learn about violence, that violence is not a secret but that we push it into daylight, we look at it, and we look at its causes and manifestations. The other is that violence is being dealt with through education and enlightenment. But most important is the prevention of violence through education and enlightenment. This latter feature is particularly relevant to those who use violence and may be at risk of violence, perhaps because of social or other factors. How important it is to reach that group with instruction and enlightenment! Then there will be no avoiding the fact that young men, very young men, children, are being taught from pornography and pornography, which is highly acceptable. They are taught that they are violent, and they are taught that sex is violence, and they receive that message. They may not receive enough powerful messages to correct the delusions that arise from viewing pornography. There, education and enlightenment are key elements. There are two things I would like to mention that are also mentioned in the committee's opinion and may be better off and the attention of the committee was drawn. The first may relate to what I left behind, and it is a digital sexual abuse. We were warned that there was no special task for digital sexual abuse, that this program would not include measures to support the tolerance of digital sexual abuse, actions to educate parties in the justice system, or measures to promote public awareness of this phenomenon, digital sexual abuse. In this context of the committee's opinion, it may be noted that a whole group of improvements involving sexual violence has been assigned to shape measures against digital sexual abuse. It can be better, though, if necessary. The other point that I would like to mention, and I have been criticized, is that under the treatment of the matter, the commission was not to mention the connection between alcohol and violence. It's kind of important, I think, to keep this in mind because alcohol is a very violent complication in Iceland and it's been a long time. Not to be overlooked is the culture of violence. Violence is a cultural ill, even as association with alcohol is also cultural. Indiscriminate association with alcohol is a lack of culture, and it is often accompanied by violent behavior. A committee study highlights the importance of the prevention and role of the health system, and I wholeheartedly agree with it. I'd also like to mention one more thing that I think is important in this relationship, and there's access to alcohol. It must also matter when we are talking about violence and alcohol. For young people, education, and enlightenment that I merely changed from earlier to earlier, it may be forgotten when young people are taught about sex that sex is not primarily about the body's activities, as some might be expected from educational programs that highlight the way the body operates in sex. It's like what I've been doing, just like violence, and just like drinking alcohol, it's cultural. Sex is also cultural and mental. Just as any material can be instilled in an uncivilized culture, so a beautiful, human approach can be instilled in them as well as in others. I hope this strategy is to play well with a church resolution referred to to by the government proposed by Oddný Harðardóttir, which was about to be a plan for 2019◯022 to strengthen the position of children and young people, and I hope that the government will work well. That plan has many well - equipped actions that are focused on helping violent or violent children. As mentioned earlier, I have high hopes that the government will make this operation program that we're dealing with here and then the Senate Directive on children and young people in Iceland work well together for the benefit of the Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u159	Mr. President. We are here discussing a very important case, which is a proposal for a synopsis of a plan for the year 2019,2022 on action against violence and its consequences. This is a council proposal from the highest level. The Minister of Social Affairs, now known as the Minister of Child Affairs, has been in more intensive treatment for the council. A top-of-the-art Board of Education for some time. I'd like to start with a package that is only included with the Committee on General Education and Education Committee, a document that contains processing from the data of the study health and the well - being of the Icelands conducted in 2012 and 2017. These figures are merely said to be shocking, and they show us black and white that we need to take very massive action against violence here on the country. In a recent study, a number of Icelanders were interviewed. This was a sample scan based on responses by some 6,500 individuals in 2012 and 6,400 subjects in 2017. Unfortunately, it only talks with an 18 - year - old Icelandic citizen with a registered residence in Iceland. It is clear, therefore, that foreign citizens living in this country are not unique in the long range of the study. I think it's shocking, because I think I can claim that among foreign citizen of all sex, groups are more common to any kind of violence, often because of a mismanagement. And now I'm not saying that foreign citizens living in this country, or people of foreign origin, who are then not foreign citizens, but Icelandic citizens of foreign descent - among them, people are in a more delicate position. What I'm talking about is that not everyone is in a more sensitive position but that there are individuals in a more sensitive position who are then more exposed to violence. That's why I'm sorry that the group isn't involved. Still, you can see shocking numbers here. When it comes to questions about physical violence, it can be seen that 37.7% of men 183/444 years of age claim to have suffered physical abuse, whereas less than 23% of women have suffered physical abuse at this age of 183/444. However, taking the total number, it is 27.5% of men and 18.9% of women. This, of course, is a very large group that has experienced physical violence. However, when individuals are asked if they have been sexually abused, 8.8% of the 184 -44 - year - old men say that they have been sexually abused - less than 10%, while 30.4% of the women aged 183/444 have experienced sexual violence during their lifetime. This is a third woman in this age range, 22.8% of women between 45- in the age range, and 9.4% in women aged 67 years and older. The total number of 18 years and older is 7% of men who claim to have been sexually violent and 23.9% of women. These numbers are awesome. They're super-excited. It is really amazing that we have not turned everything upside down, that we have not yet made plans so that when you are exposed to violence, sexual violence, or other violence, you can immediately seek justice and get a conclusion in the matter before a long period of time passes. That certainly is not the case today. It is also of great interest to examine who are involved in violence. In the case of women, there are 1.2% of the cases of sexual abuse by partners or boyfriends, 3% of those who are sexually abused by their ex - spouse or boyfriend, 5.4% of friends or associates, 5.4% of relatives, 6.6% of strangers, and 6.1% of others. This means that sexual violence against women is in almost 20% of the cases committed by someone with whom the woman knows. There is something we should watch and aim for the ministry, since the overwhelming part of violence is 24%, and there is a woman who knows who is involved in it. For sexually abused men, it is 0.2% of your partner or boyfriend, 0.4% of your former partner or boyfriend, friend or partner of 1%, relative of 1.2%. It's a total of 4%. And then a stranger 2.4% and another 2.3%. These figures are something we in the whole system should see that our response should be based on the facts we have about who is involved in violence. That is what needs to be eradicated. We need to look at who are involved in violence. I know that attorney Elva Dögg Ásudóttir Kristinsdóttir, who has worked much with the insolence of domestic and sexual abuse, wrote a master's essay on the subject of violence. The results of this study were very interesting, for it showed that violence is not partial. Violence is merely a paradox of society. We always think that there is some kind of person who uses violence. But this is what we should be looking at, and we should be quite foolish to eliminate this violence because it is so extensive. Maybe that's what makes me a little thrifty about this council mishap, even though it's a good price and good thing that we're looking at it, that I think it's just so unfashionable to the general population. I think it's a little airy. Although the suggestions may be a great deal of pay, of course, the discussion is first and all that, I think it's a lot of working people who are somehow supposed to think about things. It's a four-year period, but it's a bit of speculation while we're also watching things that we should be able to do and work on and finish and decide to finance and invest in. It's not just about money, but it's about money. That is the major criticism here at the beginning of the committee opinion, which is very thorough and professional and obviously just honest. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ Most guests were in agreement that the total amount of money required to act on violence and its consequences would be sufficient for a dose and that the cost of a single operation would be often and often completely unrealistic and would not result in the fulfillment of the objectives of the strategy. A little later in the Commission article, with the permission of a president, says: The Commission's handling also made it unclear whether the Parliament's decision to cover solely the cost of the State or whether the cost of a budget would also be due to the costs that partners would be paid to work and to its induction. Special attention was given to the arrival of a rural society, where it would not be to see that the State would contribute funds to the rural community to follow up on projects, but it would also need to consider 129. Civil Government, No. 138/2011, who decides to have a cost assessment if it is predictable to recommend a bill, a proposal to govern the administration or other policy-makers on the part of the government will have a financial impact on rural society. Finally, the committee's opinion, with permission from the president: Then the importance of considering the cost of translating and dispensing to people, including children of foreign origin, was highlighted. And after that, it says: In view of the above, the committee feels clearly that investment is needed in the topic field. That's where I want to stay right now. I've been working in the justice system when it comes to violence. For a few years, I was a lawyer in an emergency room for victims of sexual abuse, and a lawyer is receiving a reception for the victims of domestic violence. You became so tangiblely aware of how limited money was into this system. It is perfectly unsurpassed that those who tolerate sexual abuse and domestic violence have to wait for years for justice, have to wait for years to be really able to close the case, may feel that it has been taken care of in the system in order to begin completing the work on such extreme pain that people experience as a result of being violent. Especially because of the facts I mentioned at the outset, i.e. how much more causes of violence are known to a person who is guilty of crime, whether in a family or in a group of friends, or at work. This is even more important because each day a person needs to face a tormentor. Then it is so important that the immediate intervention is taken, that the reaction is real, not that you have the feeling of being at the bottom of a pile for years and not getting any information. That, of course, is what many wrongdoers have complained about. It is also noted in the committee that the committee did not think it was time to plan any changes in the cost of all these measures, since there was no progress on how much this would cost. There seems to be no plan upstairs. You're also wondering what numbers they are in the Senate arrangement. This looks tiny, like a strudel that is given the impression that either the cost is 2 million annually or within the box. In some places this is done in detail, but somehow it is about a million here and a million there. You feel this isn't practical, as it happens. One is that this is not realistic; the other is that there is no thought behind it. Then I must also state what is stated in the committee's opinion that the committee directs the responsible for each procedure to emphasize the objectives of the procedure by providing a realistic assessment of the cost when further expansion of each procedure is available. Encouraged by the Ministry to draw attention to the WHO's financial committee to such projects, the Committee directs to the responsible person of each operation to emphasize the importance of this money from a financial committee. However, the committee is made up of representatives of the legislature authority of the state. I feel that once again the lawgiver is totally involved when it comes to responsible financial administration and actually put it in the hands of all kinds of groups that are supposed to do the rest and this, control groups and other groups, to find out how to finance things. To this end, because I don't have much time left, I have to commend the committee for leading everyone to the table, to get this large group to meet them to discuss this matter. It seems that this group of people, in some way involved, comes to children, comes to victims of violence of all genders, ethnic groups, etc. It seems that it has been tried to keep a tight grip on the vast majority of information. I must say, I find it very respectable to see the detailed and practical work that has obviously been put into this, even though I repeat my criticism in terms of the professional estimate of the cost of these actions. We're the ones taking the money, and it's not just in this case that I criticize it, that's in more cases and on committees where I sit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u160	A respectable president. We will discuss a proposal for a resolution from the Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Minister on a strategy for action against violence and its consequences. This, of course, is the best and the most excellent effort, as far as it goes. But we have heard various criticisms about the financial issues on the subject and how to finance it. I'll come in on it later. But what I'd kind of like to wonder most about, and immediately it is that in the proposal, in the motions, and in the opinion of the committee, there is one thing that never acts out, I have not yet found a special chapter about it, or that it has been mentioned precisely on the name, and that is, in the United Nations Convention on the issues of the disabled and his validation, and that should be taken into account in this matter in connection with that aspect, especially when it might also be pointed out that when it is legally established, it will be a very correct for this group. This is one of the most vulnerable groups that need special attention, as shown. That's why I want to quote and read a part of the review of Development Help, with the permission of a president: ▪ People who work hard are very vulnerable to various forms of violence. All studies confirm this clearly. This is true of all disabled people, especially disabled women, those with developmental impairment and disabled children. Therefore, it is a very clear and highly obliged government to do what is within its power to protect disabled people from violence by means of available means and by making sure that laws and rules, policies, plans, actions, and actions take into account the circumstances and needs of disabled people. It is also mandatory for governments to ensure that adequate research is done to legislation, policy and implementation is based on reliable information and data. This is definitely supposed to be a matter of business. Another thing I expected was a list. With President's permission, I'm going to read here a little: ▪ In preparing the Action Programme, the Control team has been contacted by many experts who have reported where they feel the need for action as well as possible implementation. In this context, it should be noted that the first - century governing group had already obtained extensive information at the international meeting. The following have come to a meeting with the group: Then there's a group of people, the National Association of older citizens and others, but I don't see a list of Iceland's Scaring Association or Developmental Help. Maybe they weren't at this meeting, but I hope it's rather forgotten to mention them. But I hope you'll see. We need to realize that sadly, those most in need of our protection, the disabled, seem to fall between being counted or being taken into consideration. I don't think that's why anything else is but that it's just a clean, clear mistake and thoughtlessness. In this context, I would also like to refer to this in the review of Developmental Help to the Commission on the basis of the case quoted in Article 13. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disappointment It shows access to the justice system, by permission of the President: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. The Member States should ensure that disabled persons have active access to the justice system to like others, including adjusting the treatment to their needs and taking appropriate account of their age, in order to enable them to perform their role in an active and indirect role, including witnesses, in all procedures, including the field of study and other conditioning levels. 2. In order to help ensure an active access to the justice system to the disabled, Member States shall contribute to the proper education and training of the people working in the field of justice, including police and prison personnel. That is why I have wondered that in a list of the free partnerships listed in one more time, there is no record of Iceland's Qualification Association or Developmental Help. Of course, this is totally unacceptable because everyone in these matters is due to come. I want to continue to point to the United Nations Convention quoted by Maturity Help, Article 4. According to this chapter, the review of Development Help, with the permission of a president, says: A chapter in which the headlinership and consultation are made with the Parliament's resolution of the Action Programme will show who was in the head of the Ministry of Health at the development of the programme and who came in contact with the group. In spite of clear communication according to Article 4, the National Association of Development does not see that it was represented by disabled people or organizations acting in their behalf. The contract of the UN and despite the fact that disabled people are particularly vulnerable to violence, the need and the duty of governments to consider especially in the terms of the UN Convention on the rights of disabled persons referred to above. I think it's just sad that they didn't get in there, and maybe it's in a lot of my own way that I didn't make it to the General Committee because I'm an agent to point out this out. This shows that you can't be everywhere, unfortunately. It's kind of sad, and I would have preferred not to have met that way. But then there are other vulnerable groups that need to be more considerationd in this synonym and committee warrants, and there are older citizens. The older citizen's national relationship sent in a review, which clearly points to factors that they think require special attention and I intend to quote them with the permission of the president: ▪ Especially should we rejoice that society's need for awareness against hatred is being discussed. This is especially true of all social services. Indeed, we need national effort regarding harassment and violence. This subject has been discussed with the older citizens of the United States, since the fact is that violence and harassment are taking place in the older cities of the country. Therefore, it is necessary to take special care of the elderly when it is suspected that they will be violent. The EEC emphasizes that all studies of violence and harassment with older citizens as well as suggestions for improving are put into good cooperation with the management of LEB. It's supposed to be a big deal. Unfortunately, there is something else that I feel is missing in this council resolution and the committee's opinion, and there is not one word of it. That's what I call it a miserable name for economic violence. This can take place in various forms, and one form of economic violence is the poverty of children. Children who are unable to attend sports in schools or elsewhere cannot stand up to their peers as being harassed, that is, a fact. Therefore, it must also be guaranteed, and to be self-improved, that no child must live in poverty, much less readily. Then there's another thing in this case that I'd like to point out in the review of the Iceland Human Rights Office, which she sent in on the case. I'd like to quote that review, Mr. President's permission: ▪ AMRSI makes comments with a lack of cooperation with free partners and other people who oppose violence and its consequences. True, a work meeting was held in the den where the basis was laid for the implementation of this strategy, but it should be aware that it did not provide time to go to the depth of individual groups that are specially exposed to violence, e.g. women of foreign origin, disabled women (kempt people), queer people, e.g. Transmissions and people with addiction or psychiatric disorders The plan shows that when preparing the programme, a number of experts have been specifically consulted and presented where they think action is needed and possible implementation. Interestingly, the organization and organisations that are particularly antiviolence were called for only a specialist from Dragon Path, which is worthy of any good pay, but it was not consulted by the Women's Resident, the Gangs, the Women's Council, the Women's Association of Foreign descent, and TAU for example. It might also be pointed to MRSI, whose office has years of experience in counselling with victims of human halls and women of foreign origin in violent relationships. In view of this, MRSI misses that the actions programme should not identify any clearer and more closely defined actions in the groups mentioned above. These are the best tips from the Iceland Human Rights Office, and also, by permission of the President, I'm going to quote from another source in the review: ▪ As mentioned above, MRSI comments that the plan lacks specific options for various groups that are more exposed to violence than others. In particular, the office wants to mention drug addicts in this relationship. National studies show that about 50% of men have been violent in drug abuse/addiction therapy, and a large proportion of women are involved in the use of alcohol abusers. Therefore, dependence/addiction therapy should address the consequences of violence as well as the use of treatment for bacteria. Under this, I'm sure we'll all be able to accept. We should do the same. But that is not what this said, i.e. financing. According to Iceland's Human Rights Office, it is estimated that a total of 45 million are being spent during the operation. For so many actions, especially after reviewing the statistics from the bottom line. Helgadóttir In fact, while this is an impressive amount of 45 million, I'm talking about a small amount of money in this context. Still, it is also petty in the context of the seriousness of the matter. What I always find most seriously about this is that in such a program, there is nothing about strengthening the groups of fellow workers mentioned in these proposals and the rest of those not mentioned, they are greatly strengthened to handle these matters because we know that such groups, many of whom are doing great work, volunteer work, are under attack because of lack of money. In order to handle these matters seriously, it is necessary to make sure that funding is available and that, for example, there is a budget in your case. Children who are disabled would be very necessary to have financial support, e.g. in the Generous Community and Development Organization, to deal with things, to help people to survive, to help them, and to help them, and to treat them properly. As I say, this is the best of matters, and I would say that this would be a great first step toward dealing with this tremendous social ill of violence, and especially against those who are least able to defend themselves in this context, those who are disabled individuals, children, and older citizens. We know that the nation is getting old. It grows rapidly, and the growing number of older citizens will become gigantian in the future. As a result, particular attention should be given to the fact that the older people of this land are affected by diseases that expose them to violence. Therefore, we especially need to ensure that older citizens are not subject to violence, and we also need to make sure that they are not able to do so and that older citizens will not be able to become victims of violence in institutions that are supposed to satisfy them for the last days of their old age. Therefore, we should also make sure that in order to achieve that result, we must make sure that there is money and that the funds also exist for a free organization. Because I'm afraid, and I see it with the organization I've come to avoid such an organization: money supply is missing, people are needed to fight, people who've built up one organization after another, just from vision, and then they're kind of giving up because the financial foundation is falling apart. And it tells itself that if many of these organizations give up because of financial problems and risk the good things and the good things they've been fighting for and volunteering, somewhere. They will likely land on the State and at great cost there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u161	A respectable president. I thank the senator for this review and especially how he brings out how we need to look especially at our peripheral groups as a result of their position, often exposed to violence. However, I would like to show him that part of the criticism he detracted from the comments is a factor we have responded to. First of all, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disappointment is not well discussed with those who are disabled, particularly twice in the Committee, and the committee criticizes precisely that the Ministry does not seem to have called the association of disabled persons for consultation at previous levels. It is not available, as the senator mentioned, so it is directed to the government to observe this with the implementation and review of the plan. In particular, the importance of increasing the knowledge of the whole system of government treaties is expressed, so that the committee overtook these criticisms and, in fact, took what theist help said, and the senator read here, making his point of advice. The Senator mentioned that economic violence is not being discussed. In fact, we suggest that the opening words of the program, 2 mg 1st. Chapter I, it has become a matter of economic violence. It's here. It's a proposal from the Committee. With regard to the support of a free organization, the senator may surely agree that it needs to be done better. In the opinion of the committee, we call C.6 to support regional action, and we call the Secular Fund that leads today to getting money into a community. [[The president calls.]] This needs to come into more solid shapes for the future, but we do not fully deliver it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u162	A respectable president. I'd like to give you just two, three things that got by you. Senator. First, I'd like to thank her for a good review of things worth reflecting on in her schedule. First, I have to make an observation that she twice spoke of 28 operations, since the committee added two and now 30. Perhaps I'd like to pause for a discussion. As the senator mentioned, you feel somewhat aware that, of course, the Ministry is supposed to consult all possible items, but the very fact is that this is often a failure. I think that one of the major initiatives of this program is that the three Ministry, now four, which are coming together and writing a plan. As a result, some cultural cooperation is formed in a language group, which is close to the Ministry. Then, in that culture, consultations can be made with other parties outside the scheme, which was a failure in this process. I have high hopes for the last three teams of the programme, C.12 for the annual meeting of the National Conference, C.13 on follow-up and C.14 on the review of the programme, as a way of achieving a steady conversation with the grasslands, the university community, the field service, in order for the next plan to be even better than this, in order to implement this strategy as best we have it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u163	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a proposal to promote Icelandic as official case in Iceland to the Committee for Education and Education. Many helpful comments were received, and the committee, similar to the number of members of the committee, are reporters and guests in the committee's list. The Parliamentary proposals to promote the English language as an official language in Iceland. This is a policy proposal and includes a total of 22 activities that have three main objectives, that the Icelandic community will be used in all areas of society, that there will be an increase in Icelandic education and education and academic development by teachers, and that the future of the Icelandic language in a digital world will be ensured. The handling of the matter discussed all the actions of the proposal, as well as translations, interpretations, cultures, writers, and cultures. The Commission would particularly like to stress that along with the official English language, many people in Iceland have limited power in Icelandic but still need to be active members of the community, enjoy rights and responsibilities. A course that takes place in this group is needed. One of the objectives of the synonym is that Icelandic will be used in all areas of society. The committee found that there would be a closer understanding of the importance of the objective for the different and varied areas of society, e.g. Tourism services, as well as the potential effects, to form on the educational and educational world. This committee aims to direct the Ministry to the implementation of the programme to define the importance of the objective for specific areas and sectoral activities in broad consultations with the relevant stakeholders. In view of this, a policy is, in fact, to a policy rather than a plan of action. Since there is no budget for the overall Action Programme, the Committee stresses that the Ministry costs the cost of each action and that the Ministry is stressing the importance of achieving the objectives of the operation and at the same time explaining it to the government's financial programme. In addition, the Committee stresses wide consultations with further implementation of measures. The project manager has already been appointed on Iceland, which is designed to further shape the programme and to achieve its objectives and follow-up measures. This is in harmony with the decision given by the Committee. The Commission noted that strong cultural life in Icelandic countries is one of the basic foundations of a wide variety of economy and contributes to society's general well - being and balance. In government cultural policy, it is emphasised on providing conditions for diversity, prototypes, and initiatives in the field of art. The cultural involvement of children and young people is important for the United States to grow and thrive, as is the children's culture fund and art for all. This is especially so by the list that the English language has been a unit symbol of unity and has added sympathy to its contents in English and Icelandic realities, such as art, music, poetry, and song lyrics, movies, dramas, dancing, artism, and literature. In addition, globalization and multiplicity of the people have influenced the language at the same time. The committee stresses that Icelandic is a living language that adapts to new realities and develops with the nation. At the same time, she must be nurtured, reminded of her creative powers, and encouraged to be used in all creations. According to the Committee, cultural activity and funds need to be supported, which strengthens the various arts and in general, encourage creative awakenings among artists to make an important contribution to their maintenance and development of Icelandic languages. In addition, the Committee suggests adjusting the headline II. section but it is established that the schedule should be performed for three, but not four years. The committee suggests that the operation The School Library will be removed from the section on Education and Schools, but instead of the combined operation on public libraries under Mention. As to the importance of reading, the Committee found a point on how writers should be involved in a national law on locks and the committees have the right to eliminate these measures in broad cooperation and adherence. In this regard, a view that calls for more attention to young readers was developed. At the same time, the importance of continuation of the work of a team of locks and readers of the National Institute of Science was highlighted. In the treatment of the matter, children's speech and emphasis on reading were discussed in a wide sense that directly and indirectly contributed to the language and understanding of children, whether on text, pictures, society, or culture. It is important that various methods of research be studied to promote increased speech usage and understanding and to evaluate planned methods to promote locks. In view of this committee, particular attention should be given to those with learning problems, such as dyslexia, dyslexia, speech disorder, or speech disorders. In such cases, special attention must be given to education to informers of the importance at home for the key aspects of children's speech and speech development and later their reading skills. So the committee points to the Ministry to consider that the above and that the education on hearing will be part of the operation. The committee found that the study material for a multilingual and multilingual student group would need special attention, as well as special instruction from children born in Iceland who need specific assistance for their language skills. It would also be important to be supportive of parents of a foreign background and to teach them their responsibility to maintain the mother tongue of their children. The committee was also shown to have to distinguish between children born in Iceland and moved to the country during the first five years of life, using a language other than English at home. Their language would be in both the language and the language of the English language. On the other hand, children who were older when they moved to the country and learned English as a different language would be older. If so, a comprehensive program of teaching students with a native language would be needed, which would be based on research in that field. In addition, the factors involved in school society's responsibility must be defined as teaching Icelandic and the responsibility of parents and guardians to maintain the language of their children's origin. The Commission aims to keep the above reference in mind in the implementation of the procedure and emphasizes the importance of determining the overall policy in this field. In the treatment of the matter, it was suggested that there were a wide variety of opportunities for a variety of students to study Icelandic. In this context, the changed combination of immigrants would need to be considered. In connection with Icelandic as another matter for adult immigrants, more opportunities would have to be developed for practical study, where the study would be combined in Icelandic and professional studies. In view of the above, the Committee considers it important to consider the Icelandic study of this group and to cooperate with the people in Icelandic school. Then there was a thought that it was dangerous to make a elementary school responsible for strengthening and maintaining the many language languages of children with Icelandic languages as a second language. According to the Committee, the educational system is designed to accomplish this to some extent. The committee noted that a good language skill is the basis for another language study. Languages can be learned at the same time or after, and children can need the opportunity to develop language skills in their language, and it is important to encourage parents to develop and develop their own language and to support their children's Icelandic studies. The Commission again relies on the importance of achieving a global policy in this area and considering the measures to be taken so that the immigrants can be assured of proper support in those areas, including: The education system. In the treatment of the case, there was a view of expanding the procedure of the School Library and stressing the changing role of librarys. Libraries have been turning into knowledge centres for providing access to a variety of educational material, such as reading, recordings, footage, and any media material, which can play a key role in the development of Icelandic languages. The committee is accompanied by an expansion of the procedure so that access to material in general will be stressed, not just literature. This is also true of the material in Icelandic Sign Language. The committee noted that in the synonym of this arrangement, two actions are almost consistent with the work of librarys, one on the other, the School of Schools, and the other, public libraries. The committee suggests that these actions will be united in a new operation, a collection of books. A new action that combines these actions will be found in the chapter "Geeding and Arts. " The committee has the importance of access to materials at all school levels, including high school. At the same time, the bookcase needs to be considered and maintained. In this context, the commission has been given to explain how this arrangement is conducted in the north countries in terms of government shopping for libraries, part of support of both writers and publishers. The committee, however, leaves it up to the Ministry to see if the materials of this recommendation fall under the operation. In addition, the Committee directs the Ministry to see what standards or standards are in place for library activities. The committee claims that there will be widespread cooperation with those involved, including writers. In the treatment of the case, a perspective on the importance of emphasis was made on promoting the interest of teachers in the language and training them to use the language of students, language skills, and creativity to build their positive attitude on Icelandic and enhanced speech. The committee agrees that teachers play a key role in attracting students in Icelandic languages. The commission, in turn, points to the Ministry to have the above views on the implementation of the procedure and also to see if there are other requirements for the training of other teachers in the school to which they are educated. Special attention should be paid to the implementation of the procedure in terms of education, ability and counseling of teachers and school directors at preschool, elementary school and high school, case No. Eighty-one, if it's the law. The committee also points to the Ministry that in the implementation of a teacher's work development process, it will be considered to increase the quality of the development funds and the development of the teacher's supporting systems for the future and that this will be done in close cooperation with the school community. The committee noted that it would be necessary to look for ways to reverse this trend in order to reduce the number of fixed teachers in Icelandic languages and students who would suffer from intense research on Icelandic language and its status. The Commission believes that the Ministry will have to take that development seriously and examine the implementation of the programme. It is important to increase the number of Icelandic studies to set the basis for later language studies and to increase the availability of Icelandic education for international students. In the treatment of the case, it was found that globalization in a modern university community was important to advance university benefits and to ensure the competitiveness of Icelandic university. The Commission therefore aims to take into account standards that highlight the status of Icelandic university in a global community. Then the committee agrees with the view that Icelandic Sign Languageists receive support and training in sign language and suggests changes in the procedure so that they can also be trained in Icelandic Sign Language where appropriate. The committee suggests that the procedure digital study will be extended in such a way that it will be not limited to a digital subject but will be used in general and that its name will be changed accordingly. Then, the committees have extensive cooperation, including publishers, authors, libraries, and school society. The committee suggests minor word changes in the Icelandic study of adult immigrants, which aims to highlight the wide range of courses and study programs for different mediators. The Committee then points to the Ministry to work with the members of the European Parliament who offer an Icelandic study of adult immigrants. In the Senate arrangement, there are five actions listed in Mention. The committee suggests some changes that are primarily subject to the creative aspects of the language and culture. First, the committee proposes that the chapter be given to Mention and Art. Second, the commission suggests four new actions related to the new headline of the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures, such as music, art, stage art, movies, and television programs. Third, the Commission proposes to combine the actions of Ingalend programme with the private media for a procedure that receives the headline Multimedia and national programme. Fourth, the Committee also suggests that the operation of Book Edition and Children's Literature Fund will be united in one operation. The committee noted that music is a major part of the daily lives of the people of the country, and the Committee has to support musical creations in Icelandic language and encourage transport. The support of the state's making of music and the music of the local people has been a wide variety of ways to promote Icelandic music, music, and presentation to Icelandic musicians. There are the rewards of musicians and musicians, music funds, sociologists, Icelandic music exports, and export funds. It is also the National Institute of Music for the Symphonic Orchestra of Iceland, whose legal projects highlight the transport and presentation of Icelandic music. In view of the above, the Committee suggests that there will be an added operation that should contribute to an increase in the origination of music and text making in Icelandic languages. The committee emphasizes that it will be encouraged by a theoretical and artistic discussion that will be used in Icelandic terms and names to make it available to the public. In this regard, it is necessary to look to a newly formed world that replaces foreign terms that follow the ever - changing art world. Then there is the National Institute of Arts, which is designed to promote Icelandic art and to promote progress and development in Iceland. An art body is then entrusted with building up an art fund. Finally, paying a job is the key to the remuneration of the arts. The Commission suggests that there will be an added operation that contributes to an increased awareness of the importance of the Icelandic subject on art and on the diagnosis and sharing of art. The National Theater and the Icelandic Dance Party are the principal institutions of the state of the stage arts. Among the legal roles of the National Theater is to promote Icelandic plays and to be exemplary in artistic transport and the treatment of Icelandic languages. Then the Icelandic dance party's role is defined in a bill to set up stage arts, no. 800, that he should contribute to the innovation of national ballet production and to the development of dance arts in Iceland. At that time, the pay fund provides annual employment salary and support for other acting jobs, both professional and amateur partners. In recent years, the arts have become very angry, especially in the field of dancing. Like other arts, dance is often without words. In a new art form, it is important to increase the language of Icelandic language and therefore contribute to a new operation that highlights the use of Icelandic languages in many ways and in a wide variety of fields in the country. One of the most effective influences in youth's culture is film and television, and the committee agrees with this view, as it is a challenge to promote the production of childhood and juvenile material in view of the high technological changes and the development of social media. The committee suggests that new teams that will be added to the production of films and TV programs in Icelandic, particularly considering material for younger audiences and support for translation, texting, and speaking of such materials. At the same time, the Commission emphasizes that this will be in cooperation with national media agencies. There is increased production and availability of Icelandic entertainment for television, such as aftereffects, also important for the development of the Icelandic language. It should be noted that the role of Iceland's movie centre is to promote production and spread in Icelandic movies and to promote film culture in Iceland. In view of the above, the committee suggests a new operation, Movies and TV programs, where films and TV programs will be brief and particular attention should be made to younger audiences. There will be increased support for translation, texting, and speaking of such materials. According to the Committee, there is a large mix between the actions of the Ingalend programme and the private media. So the committee suggests that these actions will be combined as the Multimedia and national programme. This procedure will also be extended so that it also covers a web program. At a meeting the Committee discussed the importance of protecting and promoting the Icelandic press market. In the treatment of the case, there was a view that the procedure Private Media Administration was in line with the Commission's proposal to improve their environment. Budget support for the private media is important so that personal lighting media could further promote national programs and access to them. Then it was stated that, according to the media law, the media host, as appropriate, promotes the English language, but the media, which conveys audio and text in English, should also be used as a means to establish a language policy. In this case, the availability of a variety of substances in Icelandic Sign Language or Text must also be ensured. In addition, the Commission suggests that the activities of the individual media are supported by the amendment of news and news media. The bill of this material has been submitted, with No. 919. This allows the operation to expand and the Ministry to consider additional ways to support private media efforts, including to promote the Icelandic language and action thus not limited to reimbursement support. Finally, the judicial committee will take into account the importance of the implementation of this procedure by considering material intended for children and young people. In view of the Commission's opinion, it is preferable to discuss in a comprehensive way about literature culture, so the Committee suggests that the operation of Book Edition and Children's Education will be combined during a procedure called Bookmaking, where there will also be an increased emphasis on creation and translation. The committee was told that a book version plays a number of roles in the current Icelandic language. It is then assumed to set up a fund for children and young people, but the role of this fund is most likely to focus on publishing books. This committee aims to ensure that both original and translated books are taken into account by the Ministry. Then the committee points out that authors need to be considered in carrying out this procedure. During the new century, rapid technological advances have changed dramatically in the environment and have multiplied the effects of English, especially in Internet and television. It's an Icelandic defense campaign in this field. Thus, the committee feels that the importance of translation is rarely or never been the same. Special funds have strengthened this aspect in the European Union, and the Committee considers it desirable to support them more closely, especially when it comes to the translation of entertainment for children and teenagers on webs and on television. The committee considers it necessary to strengthen the environment of literature: Icelandic language, writing, translation and publishing of books in Icelandic, technical development in this article, support of the environment, etc. Finally, in view of its importance to the development of the case and to improve its locks, the committee points to a law that was adopted in December to support the publication of books in the New World Translation. The Parliamentary arrangement includes two actions in the section Technology, access, and innovation. The committee suggests a change in the latter procedure so that the operation of Word Committees will be combined with the Vocabulary in a special section of dictionarys and Dictionary Committees. Opinions on the importance of securing Icelandic status in the digital world were presented in the treatment of the situation. Progress in grammar will contribute to simplifying the process by publishing live OSDs on TV and on web, as well as the use of such technology to the deaf and to the deaf and to the hearing and to those learning Icelandic. The Commission agrees with the importance of this and points to a five-year language management plan for Icelandic languages. In this context, the committee points out that video games need to be played. Computer games have an enormous potential for innovation in Icelandic culture and language, as shown by the United States Association of the Film Actors, which came from the budget of 2020,2024. The committee suggests that the actions of Word Committees and Wordsets will be united and therefore suggests that the above action will cease in this chapter. The committee was told that to ensure the position and competitiveness of the language in the future, it is important to ensure editors and reviews of dictionaries and dictionarys and to ensure public access to the subject. The Commission is directed to the Ministry to ensure consultation with the relevant person and that in the implementation of the procedure, groups of words will be guided by competitive views. The committee then aims at the Ministry to see if there is a shortage of material on the Icelandic language as well as a lack of the material for a smart device. The committee was told that the work of a vocabulary committee would require one of the most financial support and that it would be necessary to promote the Communion Fund. If so, it would be an opportunity for the Agency to make Magnússson of Icelandic studies the centre of a staff service and a credit card. The Commission, therefore, aims at the Ministry to investigate in a further manner that allows for the objective of the procedure to be met and ensures that the Icelandic dictionary and the debate process should take place. In the treatment of the case, there was a view on the use of the language, that criteria also need to be set for the use of Icelandic Sign Language. The committee agrees with this and suggests that the use of Icelandic Sign Language will also be established. In the treatment of the case, there was a view that there is good reason to also propose a plagion proposal to promote Icelandic Sign Language. The committee aims at the Ministry to further investigate this, but there was an opinion that, for example, would be considered. More books would have to be translated into Icelandic languages in electronic language, ensuring that those who rely on Icelandic Sign Language books are suitable and have access to new Icelandic books. An Icelandic seminar assumes that new policy measures are in progress only at the end of 2020. According to 2 mg. Section 6. the role of the Icelandic Language Committee and the role of the Icelandic Language Committee, including the U.S. to make proposals for conference ministers. In the handling of the case, the commission was advised that a New Icelandic legal committee, which will be started in January 2020, would need to be assigned to the work of the New World Committee of Justice, which will begin in January 2020. Two years to revise the Icelandic language policy adopted by the Council on March 12, 2009. The Commission gives a comment that the Ministry proposes that a newly appointed committee will be granted a longer delay, and the Committee suggests that a new language conference will be due at the end of 2021 C.E., which would be in accordance with the current policies. Finally, the committee suggests adjustments in word and correction. The committee suggests that this arrangement will be agreed with the changes outlined and proposed in a special Senate document. Hv. paritaprevir Árnadóttir Colbrow Aarnadótir was away from the hearing. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson, who was absent from the case, signed by a 4 mg source. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. I would like to read up those who have been assigned to write others especially thanks to the committee's secretary for holding on to this important subject and to the Committee for a very good work on the subject. I reiterate that this is a very important strategy for action, and the committee, as I started with, emphasizes that as with conventional policy measures, they will be followed by cost evaluations and take into account the indications that the committee made a great effort on the subject and after a very helpful discussion with a number of reviews. Under the opinion of this publication, the following column. Councilmen: Páll Magnússon, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson Þrsson, Ingi In Jónsson, Birgir Ármannsson's son, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Halla Gunnarsdóttir, Mæfán Gurnarsson, and Jándrímsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u164	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson for history. I'm not gonna put on long numbers, or I'm gonna say a lot about this. What a joy it was to share in putting this matter to a drift, and you became familiar with it! Many visitors came and taught us and helped us to prepare this matter, and I believe this is a well - thought thing to further the New World Translation as a living language in the coming turmoil of languages, regardless of what it will be all about. The question may be asked whether there are reasons why there are other reasons to protect English and why other languages should not be used in English only because it is not just English because there are no people who understand English but we ourselves and hardly us ourselves. It may not be easy to answer, since it is some emotional matter. This is not just a matter of cold logic, it is somehow built into the common memory and mutual feelings of the people that they speak Icelandic and that they respect English. It is some sense that the Icelandic is valuable in itself, and not just that, but when we speak, as well as when we read Icelandic, link, a thread is over there in an age - old age. We can still read the first thing that was written in the English language and understand it. It is not very common in the world that this is true of nations, so we can somehow access the brains of long - walked people in a very unique way. When we access this brain, we get access to a global picture and we get access to a much wider world than we can see today and much less on the screen today. This in itself helps us to think about the world in some additional way. It is important to think about the world in Icelandic language because the Icelandic language is filled with terms and thoughts that may not exist in other languages, and as soon as we know other languages that give us access to some form of the world, we have this breakthrough, Icelandic, which in itself is invaluable. Then, at times, we talk about the need to be careful that there are diversity in the world. We talk about biodiversity, that we need to stop species from dying. We need to keep the vegetation from becoming too uniform; plant species die out; species and so on. We take it very seriously, but we must not forget, too, that there are many languages that die out each year because no one speaks them anymore. In other words, our modern - day role is to preserve the English language for the world, to preserve it for mankind. No one else does. The Dutch will not preserve English or anyone else. It is only Iceland that uses Icelandic people in their daily lives who will be able to preserve English and will only preserve English by using Icelandic English in their daily lives. They do not protect it by putting it in a museum. The Icelandic doesn't belong in a museum. It's not a collection part, and that's why some word can't be like an object in a museum unchangeable, and then it's our job to wipe from this word every now and then with some delicate brush. We can't walk around Icelandic like a very delicate and fragile object that needs to wear some specially designed gloves before handing. It's not Icelandic. The Icelandic language is to be endured by all kinds of sludges and dirt, which it does because it is a very prophetic and curative language and a rich language. If we just remember not to be too solemn when we're thinking about Icelandic, speaking Icelandic, and talking about Icelandic, we're going to use it completely wild and crazy. Then I find it important that Icelandic education is such an important way that we are not inculcating children when they come to the school that Icelandic is foreign, that Icelandic is a very difficult language that they will never be able to handle, because they may say, "I want to, " or they say'to me,'or they say'mér long,'and they use other forms of the language that are not in harmony with some official rules about how the Icelandic should be a collection item. They are using English as a living language in their daily lives, as their native language, the language they have grown up with and used in all their relationships. There is no one to tell them when they come to school that they don't know Icelandic. This is their case, this is what is in them. Since your language is so much yourself, you can never say to someone: You don't speak good enough, not fine enough. You're not fine enough, you're not good enough. You must not approach the language in that way. It must always be done out of love, but it must also be done out of love for the language. I think that there's a lot of concern about all this in this concierge proposal and that it's a good way to further the Icelandic language. I certainly hope that this will be a stand-by and that this may lead to some kind of conscious awakening. It is not surprising that a person may feel overwhelmed by a measure of complacency toward the English language among people in general, which may not be strange. You may not necessarily think much of the language you use in your everyday life and may have nothing to do with it. But there is concern when English is so intense, and when you see that little children are watching entertainment and, in fact, a subject that helps these little children in their speech, and in English, the parents are not quite aware of what they are putting in their little children's hands when all this English material attacks them. As a result, they start thinking in English, and they start thinking in a sort of lescal way. This is not the real English of real living people from real living communities. It is some form of computerist, and it may not be a very mature language. Therefore, it is very important to develop Icelandic - language material, this foreign entertainment material, for children, that there will be a top priority for it to be voiced and even produced here. I have strong faith that Icelanders can master new language techniques so that they can use English in this regard. We often hear people say: "What is it like again? Then it comes with some English word that may be common in the discussion, indicating that it is thinking about the phenomenon in English. I don't think it's that bad, that's not necessarily so bad. I think it is important for us to allow cultural currents into the country and into the portals of our mind completely wild and crazy and that it in itself is not necessarily so harmful to think in international languages about matters that are essentially international in these great international times. We don't want to become an isolated society that has only its own little resources in its isolated language. Still, we must always try to find the word, how it is again, not because we go up to the museum, find the object, wipe the dust off it, and look at it in the light, and admire it, but because when we find the Icelandic word and even build the Icelandic word, we are in the process of creating the thing. We're creating the concept, and we're reaching out to the concept, we're putting our arms around the world. We're thinking about the world in Icelandic, and I think this concierge proposal to promote Icelandic as an official case in Iceland helps.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u165	A respectable president. I thank you very much for a very good talk and very meaningful talk in connection with an Icelandic language. There are some things I'm very interested in and I'm not very much of a language man. I was studying Danish in high school. You got something going through it, went quite well, then the German added, and then both the trouble started to fall apart, and I was completely lost. You were supposed to start learning German grammar, which was exactly like Icelandic grammar, which is nothing enormously interesting. Then, just no, I'm not learning English again in another language. It was hard enough the first time, I was never very good at it. I have come to appreciate the languages in a new way, even though I have never been particularly good in them. I have come to the conclusion that it is the very understanding that, after all, is able to understand the language, and to understand others who are not easy at all, because a language is a very imperfect means of conveying thoughts, although some of them are, of course, much better at all, than others, to produce it in a poetic way. A senator often does the highest. A president likes it. On the other hand, I'm not as poetic as people misunderstand me very often, I've been very aware of it. There are just two things I have in mind, one for learning a language that enables me to understand and understand others, and the other is the extinct language. A senator came in and relates to another assignment, language technology in Icelandic. I'm asking if it's the two main points we need to focus on in Icelandic, on understanding, and on preventing the matter from dying and being overwritten by other subjects, that we can teach the language of the computer in the computer age. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u166	Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Of course, it's important to talk, so people understand you, and I don't know better than that. A senator is involved, and he always achieves it. You're right. It's crucial that the verbal project really makes flight. We must be able, in our new language age, to use English in our daily lives. If we stop using Icelandic in our day - to - day lives and start using it only a span, she'll die out. It'll be like Latin. Hv. A senator was reviewing when he was in school, but I was fortunate enough to learn Latin during my school season, and it helped me understand the grammar and grammar of English and German and other languages, and it is fascinating to get involved. [[Up front.]] Above all, it is important for me that a language is alive and remains alive, that its users are comfortable with it, and that they play with it, they think about it and tell jokes, turn it over and put it off, and try to bring in all sorts of strange words that may fall because they just don't walk, but they still use it and play with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u167	A respectable president. That is exactly the combination of these two kinds of language technology, which is also the case in the computer world. Your voice is not used. A person who does not listen nods to let him know that he understands what he is talking about is immediately communication that the speaker will express his meaning. When using keyboards to send messages, we do not know whether the person will accept it in a positive or negative way, whether he will read from it sarcasm or anger or such things. Not everyone has the gift of fiction to put emotion in words in a meaningful way, e.g. I feel a little overcrowded for language, grammar, and so forth, too much of the exceptions and all the kind of stuff that I never realized and couldn't put into the Hebrew context. As an example, I already mention it. The senator began his speech, saying that he would not extend this matter much, but then the talk, perhaps as I understood it, lasted longer than I put in it, that he would not extend the matter. In fact, it is a little common during a council meeting to say that people are not going to extend the matter, but it is at the precise time, in my Hebrew sense, to do exactly that. There are these things that go very well in verbal conversation, and they don't have a problem, but in the computer world, where the language lives a very different life than we do with the human factor, it changes its understanding. That's something we need to learn.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u168	Thank you. A senator answer - and I will not extend my case here. It's a fascinating subject. The language is organism, that is life - giving. It's alive. That's what happens in our head, and it's gonna happen between us. It's kind of fun to watch a language. It's a lot of fun to do it through computers, computers, and e-mails. It's a little bit like watching Surtsey. In time, Surtsey's life, which was only black first, is becoming fertile gradually. That's how we're watching the language, i.e., it's the way computers make it. as a human form of communication. It happens with smiles and all kinds of signs that will always be more and more, which we use just to nod. It is the thumb that has arrived, and we use it for various tasks. And then there's something here called'seen', when you're ◯sheen, about to be one of them. It may even be possible to demean people by having seen the message, ◯seena to them but not to answer them. That is how it can be counted for a long time. That way we can watch human society grow. But human society is always impossible without a language. And there is no way for a community without a Icelandic language. As soon as we stop speaking Icelandic, we have become another community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u169	A respectable president. I couldn't hear the first part of my speech each time. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri son of Thorsson, but I heard the latter part of it, and I thought it was so good that I just didn't talk about it myself. He actually outlined everything that was most important to me to communicate, which is that the Icelandic language is a living language, and especially so, when we seek ways to maintain it and to promote it that we do not do it with some kind of language. We're supposed to let people talk as they please. We must not simply be tolerant of it; we should just be excited about it. It's a good thing for people to play with it. How positive it is that young people especially have new words and use them differently! Perhaps you don't like to hear Icelandic language changing to the English language. But sometimes that is the case, it is both German languages, and it is normal to a considerable degree. Even if it's slippery, over time the sledgehammers change, like the word bob, which does not mean English anymore. It almost means the same thing or is a very similar thing, but it doesn't mean the same thing. Sheop's a very Icelandic word, I think now. I don't think it's a gossip. That means something, and in my opinion, a very Icelandic thing. When I lived in Canada, I did not feel as if it were Icelandic junk. They were different, were more camp. But it's an outcast. I'd also like to go over the technicalities and how we could possibly save an Icelandic language. In fact, I am very hopeful these days because I feel that the General has responded very well. There is a common ambition in the General Assembly and in the community for doing what needs to be done, which means setting funds for the project, and that has been done. You see ambitions for like that. The fine suggestion we now make. So I am optimistic, but I spent a long time trying to survive the 21st century in the Icelandic tongue. There is one thing that we need to realize, which is no fun to admit out loud, and it is that the English language is not very useful when it comes to taking in information and knowledge. It's just that way. The simple reason is that English is overwhelmingly the most beneficial issue, in my opinion, when you seek information because of an unhearable number of those who speak it. There is another interesting thing about English. Amazing, but true is an interesting English subject. Doesn't look like it quickly, but it is, in fact, an amazing case. One of the strange things about it is that three fourths of those speaking English speak it as a different language. It is a much smaller part of English - speaking people who speak English as native languages. Of course, this is not just the reverse but almost everyone speaking it as a mother tongue. In any case, there are very few relatively few people who speak Icelandic in any way. I think that most people in here, or very many, would think of speaking fluent English, but speaking fluent English is a huge job for someone with another language language. Because English is much more beneficial, I find it beneficial to review why we want to keep it in English. One reason is simply romance. I believe it myself. I think that's all right. It is also important that we keep Icelandic, in my opinion, for scientific reasons. Although the New World Translation really is, when all of it comes about another German variation, a northwest variation in human language, it still maintains a number of things that are either gone or on the way out of other languages. One of my favorites in the Icelandic language is the mechanism of connection. I notice that many people today have stopped using the mechanism. I don't know when that happened. I don't know if it's always been that way. He thinks it's complicated. This is often what people choose for themselves when they learn Spanish, which is the mechanism of connection, and in fact, more people stop. Spanish is a very simple language, but the complex part of it is the verbs. Spanish contains e.g. a very special phenomenon for someone who speaks Icelandic or for me, it's amazing at least. And there is no future in Icelandic. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] You may not say it that way, but there is no future in English. In fact, there are words that I would like to take away some other matter and make up again. As the word is sent to the times and the times, hence, in English, and is identical in ways that are intolerable. When you use that word, you never know if it's being sent now or if it's being sent later or sent yesterday or whatever. I think it's a flaw. However, it is fun in Icelandic language and complex language, such as Icelandic, that has three genders, four falls, and all kinds of ways, and God knows what and the weak manifestations of descriptions. Why? Why do we need a weak, strong dent in the wording? It's actually pretty useless if you think about it. But this is fun, and I find it of scientific interest to maintain an Icelandic language in the 21st century and to use digital technology, to get computers not only to understand the language when it is spoken to them but also to design, e.g. An application that can distinguish between sex and say ▪ Three new envelopes, but also three new bills. By the way, I'm writing a program myself to help with the Senate work where I've had to deal with the exact problem. Then I find it so important that the English parents and parents in general have in mind that languages are different. Not all of them work the same way. I'm very irritated when someone writes a program, and they can translate it, but it's expected, for example. English order. So the number is always ahead of the word, not after it, as in other words. There are ways to avoid this, and translation techniques can be used to make a rather good living in Icelandic, but they need to know how to use it. I find an interesting scientific project to get programs to understand and say three new envelopes and three new bills, to use sex terms that are naturally not used in languages such as English but, for example, are used in English. In Spanish, which is the most spoken language in the world, and I recommend that people learn because it is also a fascinating matter. Another reason why we should keep the English language to the very best of our ability is for us to understand the story. I have had the privilege of living in Canada for two and a half years, in Winnipeg, Manitoba. They speak the native languages, which are called the first nations, such as Cree, Ojibwe, and Oji-Cree, and they are almost extinct. There are very few people who speak those words. What I was so sad about was that if you ran into someone of the older generation, I met someone, for example. There a woman who has actually fallen away now, for she was allowed to live quite a long time, who felt bad when a man asked her too much into the language. You wanted to know how you said it or how you said it, and she remembered it, and maybe she told you, but then she didn't want to talk about it for a very long time. This was because she was of a generation where it was literally and directly beaten out of the children to speak their native language. They became so much of their culture. Then you meet the young people who may have a sense of humor associated with the first nation, perhaps with early national sentences, with some reference to their philosophy, but you see the loss of contact with the past, with its characteristics. We don't have that lack of contact here. We have a strong connection with our background and history. How well we understand where cultural things come from today and why they are like them! They may not always be great, but we know where they come from, and we know how to appreciate them. As a result, we can cope with a variety of situations in our culture that we may want to change. Perhaps we do not want to change them because we love them. For example, I would like to change what is called cooking, food that's supposed to be delicious, but I don't. But it's good to celebrate it if people like it. This is another reason why we should keep in English, in order to keep our history, our understanding of history because it comes from today, and to understand modern English, and to be in good relations with it, and we need to understand the story ourselves. These reasons work for me, which one of them alone would do me, and when all are gathered together, I feel that there is no question that we should contribute to this project even if you could, if you were to look at it completely and simply out of a pragmatic view, in a hurry, it would seem pointless or based solely on romantic parameters. I mean, it's not. I'm not going to extend the discussion, a respectable president, just to point back into the grandest speech of all. A senator who spoke before me and who can save the audience the rest of the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u170	A respectable president. I'm going to start by thanking the General and Education Committee for a very detailed committee opinion and the great altruism it has in it. I'd also like to thank all those who have planted the committee, all those who have sent an opinion, and who have worked hard to improve their interpretation proposal. As I would like to thank those members of the council who have brought up their fun and material interests. I think that what we've got in front of us is a pact to promote Icelandic as official. I agree with someone who says, "We're supposed to use Icelandic." We're not supposed to be shy on her, we're supposed to have that open and warm language and all to encourage English to be used everywhere, and that's how she lives on our lips. We can't keep it in a museum like a dog. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson said, and I take my heart with him. I think this is going to be an act of support for the Icelandic. Finally, I want to thank you very much for a very good job. I care about her, and I appreciate how much the General and Education Committee has worked to support the Senate resolution. I think this example of how we should adopt ourselves further during the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u171	V.E.G. President. I'd like to recommend a committee party. General and Education Committee with a Change in bill proposal for a European Research Centre (ERIC). The committee discussed the matter and obtained a meeting of representatives from the Ministry of Education and Culture, the Social Science Institute for the University of Iceland, the National Institute of Social Sciences of Iceland, the Founding of the Year Magnús in Icelandic Studies, the Oceanographic Research and Advisory of Oceans and Waters, the National Institute for Natural Science, Iceland's Western Institute. The committee received reviews from the National Institute of Social Sciences, the Social Science Institute of the University of Iceland, the National Institute of Marine Research and Advisory at Sea and Waters, Iceland's Natural Science Institute, the Founding of the Year Magnús in Icelandic Education and Iceland's Weather Office. The motive and purpose of the bill is to enable Iceland by bringing in the Council Regulation No. 723/2009 of June 25 of the Alliance's legislation on European research infrastructure (ERIC) and the Council Regulation No. 1261/2013 of 2 December 2013 for a change in Regulation No. 732/2009 being a member of a European research organisation. By means of the implementation of the Regulation, an opportunity for the Icelandic scientific community to participate in the development and operation of research infrastructure, which is of the order of magnitude that indecision is for individual countries to finance such infrastructure independently. The importance of agreeing with the bill and ensuring participation and cooperation on European research activities was included among the guests. Their consent also increases their quality of life. Icelandic scientific community has access to research infrastructure and funding from competitive funds. The Commission takes the above, as well as the fact that economic impacts do not merely focus on the costs of Iceland's involvement in foreign ERGI organizations but also on a positive financial impact for the scientific community. For example, participation in research projects in Iceland has led to sponsors greater than the cost of participation in such cooperation. This too is a professional influence for the scientific community. The committee suggests minor changes in wording between paragraphs 1 and 5. The bill. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: Instead of the word "Uzekiel, " in pars. Come: help; and: Instead of the word 'Ennvironment' to the 5th C.E. come: applications for Iceland's involvement. Páll Magnússon and the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, who signed a 4 -mg document, were away from the case. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under the order of the centuries. Councilmen: Páll Hrafn, president of the General and Education Committee, Bogi Hafliðason Merkerson, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Jón Kolbrún, Birgir Steindór of Ármannsson, Guðmundur, Halla Helgi Gunnarsdóttir, Valdimarsson
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u172	A respectable president. This network bill on European research infrastructure is important for our university community and its research work and is a major improvement and improvement. I am very grateful to the committee for the way she has discussed the matter. I think it's a very good thing that this is the way it is going on, and I think that the compensations presented in the Committee opinion are all good. I know this is one of the issues that many scientists are waiting for, and it is very good to increase the way of scientific international cooperation. A respectable president. I want to know that I was at the University of Iceland today, and it's a real pleasure to see how well our scientists are working in international cooperation how many of their releases are getting and the power of these articles. We have a very high proportion there, and this bill is just to increase our opportunities and nurture our scientific work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u173	V.E.G. President. I say on behalf of what. General Education and Education Committee for Committee members with a revised bill to correct the conversion of authors law, No. 73/1972, with subsequent changes (inhibiting of network transport regulations across the interior market). The committee was contacted by a representative from the Ministry of Education and Culture and the Neythal Office. Asked reviews from the Navigator Association, the Neighbours Office, and the Astrophysics. The objective of the bill is to ensure that those who travel from country to country within the European Economic Area and temporarily live there can use subscriptions to the digital material they have purchased in their own country. The bill suggests the implementation of regulations from the European Parliament and the Council of 2017/1128 on the transport of Internet-based material services across the internal market. The Committee found that it was necessary to make clear the surveillance of a consumer agency by non-convincing terms on business and market surveillance, no. 57/2005, and the implementation of Council Regulation and Council of 2017/2394 on the cooperation of member of the Member States in the internal market for the forward follow-up of consumer protection legislation will have no spontaneous changes that can provide relevant sources of permission to consumers clinics. However, the report on the bill shows that the Ministry does not believe that consumers have access on the basis of a law on business control and the market to monitor the services on the Internet does not offer their subscribers an unreasonable terms or that they do not practice misleading or unjust business practices regarding the possibility of subscribers to their access to the network during a temporary stay in another Member State in accordance with the regulations of the Regulation. It will then show that when the Commission on the Cooperative Protection of 2017/2394 is implemented, the details of the implementation of Internet-based waste management legislation on business practices and markets will be implemented, and in accordance with the Commission on consumer protection must be agreed on by the National Competent Authority in accordance with the regulations established by the National Competent Authority. In the opinion of the Committee, monitoring of national regulations must be ensured. In view of the above, it is appropriate for the Commission to refer further to the Education and Culture Department to investigate the management of this surveillance and to consider whether there is any reason to address the Commission's surveillance on these topics and whether the management of the agency should be restricted to the labour agreements and that the Necessary Affairs should be concealed in non-conformable terms of consumer agreements. The Commission points to the Ministry that this will be done in cooperation with the employment and innovation department, with consumers and consumers' activities, including business and market surveillance. Finally, the commission points to the bill's headline and suggests that the bill will be approved by the change that the bill's headline will be: The bill to correct the conversion of Authors, No. 73/1972, with subsequent changes (importation of CA services). Páll Magnússon, who was absent from the case, signed on a 4 - mg source. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under this opinion, why? The General and Education Committee is writing on the following issue. Councilmen: Páll Magnússon, chairman of the Committee, Bogi Hafliðason, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Árnadóttir Kolb Kolbrún Yearnad, Birgis Birgir of Ármannsson, Jón Steindór Hrafn, Gunnarsson Gunnarsdóttir, Valdimarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u174	A respectable president. I'm here only to make an account of the warning I had at the General and Education Committee on the matter. I'm in on it, I think it's very good and very important. It really is about the fact that authorship does not prevent people from using national services, e.g. static service, like Spotify. I find it worthwhile to mention that checking where people are located on the Internet is, at first, not easy, and even if it is the intent of the user to hide where it comes from, it can be impossible. What I think is important to you to come out and be clear is, in my opinion, the unsaid right of the user to hide from what country he comes from. I think it's very important that users can hide that they are, for example, someone like that. Iceland, Saudi Arabia, North Korea or anywhere. I myself subscribe to a service that enables me to do this by one command, a single mouse click would say, since I can choose from which country I come to examine the Internet. I do this all the time to check, for example. Whether or not something's broken. If I can't get into any kind of web, I'll check, for example. whether it works in Norway, Germany or South Korea. It may also be fascinating to examine the Internet only from other countries, since webs naturally adapt to users and where they come from, especially Google. Sometimes I go through Finland because I love Finland, I lived there for a year, and all of a sudden the Internet will be in Finnish, sometimes incredibly funny. It is very important that this is possible. It is important that the politicians do not develop in some way in order to prevent it. There's nothing in this that'll stop you from doing that, but in 5. However, the Regulation seems to be a small attempt to oblige people to check on the subscriber's livestock state, which is good and blessed, but you wonder how. The techniques are never completely perfect, so hopefully they will never be perfect. It's the pattern I have in my case, so hopefully we'll always be able to use the Internet and cover it up where we live and where we are. To say that, I'm going to say it's good. It won't hurt any of this important value. I just thought it'd be a good idea for future generations to start looking up in conferences. At least 21.50 tonight, on counts of authorhood and permafrost in the EEA, at least heard this view as they are wasting their time in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u175	A respectable president. I recommend a board of committees with a change form from a General and Education Committee on what is called a bill to legalize the change of holidays and laws about a 40-hour work week (work on holidays). The committee has discussed the matter and received to her meeting with the European Courtship of the European Union of Iceland, Andri Valur Ívarsson from the Union of Colleges, Heiðrún Björk Gísladóttir from the National Association, Ólafur Stephensen from the Team of Professionals, Benedikt S. Benediktsson from the Association of Usts and Services and Viðar of Guðjohnsenur. The committee received reviews from the Allied Union of Iceland, the Coalition of Colleges, the BSRB, the Society of Professional Drivers, the Council of Employment, the Association for Business and Service, and the Viðar's Guðjohnsenur. By means of a bill, No. 32/1997, which forbids certain services, entertainment, and recreation on set holidays of the National Church. However, it is suggested that the sacred days of the National Church be stated separately in the laws about 40 hours of work, No. 88/1971, with subsequent changes. The bill will continue to prohibit any interference between church services, church practices, or other rituals through noise or other things contrary to the sacred nature of the activity, as is Article 3. Law on Mayday Peace, No. 32/1997. In the treatment of the case, there was a view as to whether there is a basis for removing laws for non - Jews, including non - Israelites, or non - Israelites. Based on the fact that other laws have a controlled way of life. According to 3 mg. 122. g. General penalties, No. 19/190, it is punishable to interfere with public services or other rites or to disrupt a funeral weekend. In view of the Commission's requirements, the penalties of the penal code appear to be narrower than the laws of holiday peace, so the committee does not consider the law to be a reason for removing the law of the law for holiday peace. Il. section of a law on holiday peace is the holidays of the National Church. The bill is suggested to remove that definition, but instead they will be each given days in the law about 40 hours of work week, i.e. that instead of referring to the holidays of the National Church, all legal holidays are listed. The committee claims that by completing II. a law on holiday peace cannot be found in the law on who is the holy days of the Church. However, the committee points out that the term "Divine Day" also occurs in 12 other legal columns, and in some cases it can be assumed to refer to these terms in collective agreements. In view of this, the committee has the right to continue a list of the holidays of the National Church in a law on holiday peace, but with a minor change in wording. Therefore, in this context, the committee no longer considers a legal adjustment of about 40 hours of work, no. 88/1971, compare Article 5. The bill. Hence, the committee suggests that this arrangement be taken away. There was some discussion of the importance of paying people's interest in the law on holiday peace that forbids specific services, entertainment, and recreation on set holidays and that there is no formal analysis or assessment of who worked in those days. The committee noted that this combination of views on the interaction of collective agreements and fixes in these areas. However, it is believed that the bill does not have special changes in the quality of the salary. The aim of the bill is then to reduce the limit of the law's spending on holidays and is therefore intended to meet these views. The committee also claims that despite this purpose, the bill is not meant to compromise the interests and rights of the pay people. According to this, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following change: 1st After 1st. A new article, as follows: Il. The chapter of the law, which has the headline The Sacred Days of the National Church, and has a single article, 2. "Gr., put it this way: The holidays are Sunday, New Year's Day, Bapon Day, Friday long, Easter Day, the Second Day of Easter, the day of Pentecost, the second day of Pentecost, the Christmas Christmas preparation from the day of Christmas. 18, Christmas, and another day of Christmas. 2. That's it. Chapter 3, The Patriot's Day of Peace and the Cathedral of the Cathedral in 2 st. ... goout. 3. Il. A chapter goes away. 4. The bill's headline is as follows: Cells to legalize laws on holidays, No. 32/1997, with later changes (insecure). Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Hrafn Gunnarsson, and Jón Steindór Valdimarsson are expected to sign in advance that, in a long time, the law would be better disposed of for holidays and would change other laws in agreement with the aim for the possibility of ensuring the need for a sacred, but without going to the advantage and interests of staff. The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's signing of this opinion is in advance that it is best to walk all the way out of law for a time of rest and to change other laws in harmony with matters such as 439. 611. A Birgir Ármannsson of a year, who was absent from the case, signed with a warrant in 4 mg. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. Under the circumstances, Páll Magnússon, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, premonitionly, Árnadóttir Kolbrún, Álfheiður Ingadóttir, Birgir Ármannsson of Argnar, Guðmundur Andri Hrafn, Helgi Gunnarsson Gónssson, early in advance, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, and Luneka Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u176	A respectable president. I recommend a board of committees with a change in bill proposal to set up a good scientific practice. This bill is about setting up a central advisory committee, promoting education and handling matters, whether they are referred to or taken up on their own initiatives. The Committee reviewed that in the scientific community this would be viewed as a matter of progress that would add to the credibility of an Icelandic scientific community within countries and abroad. It can be said that much is called on by this case, since it can show that research meets moral standards and meets the standards of advanced scientific practice as part of what is required for participation in various international projects or publications of international journals. This would ensure that national standards are in accordance with the criteria set by the international scientific community. The committee discussed the matter and heard various viewpoints as to how this central committee could be adjusted differently in terms of its composition. For example, a small U.S. scientific community called for foreign experts to be members of the committee. This committee was then discussed where it was best located in the management system to ensure good employment, but also a certain mismanagement and distance from the one mentioned. However, the General and Education Committee does not suggest any change to this condition at this time. The international scientific environment continues to develop, and the same is true of the standards of good practice, such as other aspects of scientific work. We feel that the setting and the commission of a careful scientific practice must therefore be made up of the nature of the matter in order to ensure that the quality of the research and academic work in this country is always as best done. We do not suggest a law-enforcement of the law after a certain period of time, but direct it to the Ministry to take out the experience of the law carried out after a few years and to submit to changes to follow this assessment. In a committee program, I recognize a number of adjustments that are mostly in order to enhance the clarity of the Law text. What may next come to be chemical change is the change we make to level 11. a law to make sure that law is clear about what research is under law. According to this view, the General and Education Committee as a whole stands, i.e. In addition to this, Páll Magnússon, chairman of the Committee, Árnadóttir Kolbrönnadóttir, Álfheiður the daughter of Ingadóttir, Birgir the Ármannsson, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Helgi Gunnarsson, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, and Líneik Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u177	A respectable president. It's not quite far enough for me to give a talk, it's a general comment on the ethics committees in various sciences, and now this review board. There are some comments that you hear from the scientific community, increased management, Braziliania, a tremendous increase in paperwork that hinders a particular development in research. These are general concerns that I am concerned about the establishment of these phenomena, as necessary as they definitely are. It is necessary to consider exactly what you can do on the job without making a big difference in your installation. How important it would be to consider that efficiency, the ability to interact with those committees with the researchers at all. Research is best done by researchers, not by writing and explaining that may not be necessarily involved in the research. Of course, investigators have to explain their methodology, etc. To a large extent, though, ethics committees are centered on whether there are studies in certain fields, studies in children or prisoners, or so on, which are not relevant in the vast majority of cases. How convenient it would be to be able to say, "No. " Not applicable. That's when the paperwork's over. It would be really convenient if something like that happened. This is a general comment about these phenomena that have recently been produced in Icelandic law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u178	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. I'm not sure that this trend described by the senator is necessarily just a matter of Icelandic law, but rather a much international scientific environment. We got, for example. Reports that to the Scientific Committee, which is to be discussed in the field of health science, researchers sometimes consulted with cases that are not linked to the work of this committee because foreign partners called for a check on this box. The fact is that we need one of the top scientific committees, which could be said to fulfill this committee, so that investigators can, instead of going back to one of the related committees, receive the simplest confirmation that they are fulfilling key standards of morality in their studies to meet the requirements of foreign partners. Although scientists do not want to be lost in writing when it comes to research, it is also from the sector that is called for us to add these writing opportunities so that they can turn in reports to which they are called.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u179	A respectable president. I was just at a university where there was an IRB, an IRB, a state-of-the-art Review film, a board of ethics. The requirement was, in fact, only in the medical field, but the school decided that the Scientific Committee applies to all aspects of the school, e.g. Computer science. It was just his decision and nothing about it as such. What I mean, however, is that the situation and the assistance perhaps for researchers who are good at doing research to return this paperwork is often out of place, coordination, communication. However, even if there are certain exceptions for student studies, this is also true of student research, especially when it is because of children. In one study where I know this took a long time for the study to be self-controlled, the student study was self-controlled, a fourth grade interview. Not only did they have to go through a scientific committee, they had to go through the community educational committee, which also took time, and the term was almost over without the investigator's being able to collect data. It is extremely serious if the process interferes with research and study in this way. Today, the pace in technology and the research environment is so intense that you can miss first a week's publishing or a week's time. Then it is of utmost importance that literature does not inhibit the speed of research, although it hopefully improves the quality of the research.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u180	A respectable president. I think the key may be that a minister and the committee might be moderate when it comes to creating the framework that will be handled. There is something that will be implemented after we accept these laws. Then you might, for example. Thought that there may be different demands on the scope of the study, so that a simple study of students could possibly go through shorter baptisms than large and extensive international studies with the availability of a number of scientists. This will probably only work with stakeholders when it comes to them so that they can enjoy themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u181	Madam President. I'd like to recommend a committee party. The General and Education Committee, with a revised bill for a People School song. The committee discussed the matter and met with a representative from the Ministry of Education and Culture, the University of Iceland, the LungA People's University of Seysters, the People's School for People at Flattu, the Young People's Society of Iceland, and the Union of Iceland. The committee received reviews from Blue Forest, Iceland's University, Hoatotype Town, LungA People's University, the People's School for People at Flatlance, the Union of Iceland's National Society, and Iceland's Young People. The bill suggests general social legislation with the intention of creating a professional frame of law about their school management. At the meetings of the Committee, it was mostly about the conditions for high school to be met in order to gain recognition, i.e. about the number of students, minimum functions, dormitories and financing. Number 3 2 mg. Section 3. The bill is one of the conditions of recognition that the People's School was to appoint a school building, i.e. Homes for teaching and working in the home setting that meets the laws and regulations set in place. Eight. The bill is then made up of arrangements for dormitories. On the one hand, there was a view of expanding the 3rd paragraphs 2.mg. Section 3. and 8th pars. the bill taking into account the student's farm plan. However, there was a view that it would not be reasonable to make a home environment a condition in which to use a vacancy in the public school territory. Instead, it should be noted that in the immediate surroundings of the school, a public school should invite students to live in a home, with access to a common space. According to the Committee, the law is already enlarged. Rather than being confined to one building, the committee has the right to use other open facilities in the public school territory to meet certain conditions. The committee then considers it a reason not to cancel the requirement for boarding, since it would be not a social school but another sort of study or temporary course that is already going through. All over the country, educational centres. In addition, the presence of students is an important part of high school, and it is one of the characteristics of a high school to improve tolerance and social and social skills, including by studying together in boarding. Number 6 2 mg. Section 3. the bill is valid, including on the minimum number of students to be at least 15 per year, every three years. A trend was observed for e.g. in Denmark the weekly values would be counted. Thus, 20 students who were in school for one week or one student who studied for 20 weeks would not be distinguished. The Commission noted that the requirement for minimum number of students is in accordance with the conditions in the Norwegian and Danish People School and their national schools and goals, but they are not least based on social development and conversation and cooperation in preparation for participation in democratic society. The Commission thus feels that the minimum number of students is desirable; it is clear that high school cannot serve that goal if students are very few, as well as the possibility that there will be insufficient financial basis for their activities. Otherwise, the committee referred to an explanation for a bill. Number 7 2 mg. Section 3. The bill assumes that working time with students should be at least 15 weeks during the school year and is considered to be a full study. The committee explained that these weekly numbers were based on the number of weeks that make up a one - semester priority system and that there are a number of programs for study within these weeks, such as courses, courses, or courses. The minimum level of activity should facilitate the assessment of students' jobs, e.g. in continued study. Besides this, it is based on consumer ideas, but students need to be able to assume that they are fully active at school. The committee found that it could be difficult to maintain a full 15 week continuous function, including In the event of the need for public schools to use facilities that are accessible only at a certain period over a year. The committee considers this desirable and therefore suggests that the minimum number of weeks will be 12 weeks instead of 15. Students who study for a continuous period of 12 weeks will be considered as full - time students, with a minimum of 15 students, on average for a period of three years. Funding and the importance of government support were discussed. To date, public schools have been given such temporary support, but it was thought that the Ministry would have clear authority to negotiate services with schools in length than one year at a time, in order to secure school management grounds. According to one reference work, public schools would not be able to take root in a region without official support, as is customary in the North countries. In view of the above, it was suggested that the committee add Article 5. The bill is authorised for Ministers to negotiate service contracts for a total of 36.5 years, i.e. ..................... 43. g. Law of High School, No. 92/2008, and 1 mg. Twenty-one. Law on University, No. 63/2006. The Commission stated that in the legal process of public finances, no. 123/2015, the major change was that the General Assembly no longer makes decisions on budgets for individual high school and colleges but also on budgetary sources for publicisation, i.e. Case areas of 20 High Schools and District Conventions 21 High Schools. In this context, the Committee pointed out that public schools would be held under the topic range of 22 other schools and the management of educational and cultural matters. As for the preparation of education and cultural minister's decision to divide funds from the General Assembly, general opinion on the preparation of the administrative decision, such as administrative law, no. 37/1993. For the preparation of budgets for special schools and contracts, either after 40 or 42 C.E. it's a government law. The 40th chapter. the Treaty on Public finance applies to the management contracts of public service to private citizens up to five years of age, which are in agreement with financial and economic ministers. When preparing such agreements, it may be necessary to comply with legal requirements regarding public shopping, No. 120/2016, for economically relevant activities. Making contracts in accordance with Article 40. law on official financial matters has been set up as regulations for the preparation, preparation and follow-up of agreements for implementation, business and limited projects, No. 643/2018. The 42nd paragraph. The law on public financial matters applies to the distribution of strong and forwards to a special person, which is generally set from year to year. During the distribution of such donations there should be equality, objectiveity, transparency, and competitiveness. For further details on the implementation of this law, the Minister's Coalition, No. 642/2018. According to Article 5. In accordance with the Regulation, individual ministers may provide grant granting grants and contributions. The above rules of high school and university law are not in harmony with regulations 40 and 42. a law on public finance where the source and authority of the Ministry of Education and Culture for negotiations with a private school for the management of government budgets differs significantly from that of their law. In view of this, a legal arrangement must be taken into account by the Committee to make such agreements on government donations for special schools. In view of the above, the Commission considers that there is already a secretary's authority to make such agreements on the basis of government funds and that these contracts may be longer than one year at a time. Then the Committee encourages a minister to set up a policy and plan for the public schools' topic fields. The importance of processing and opening access to information on employees and candidates was highlighted in the treatment of this problem, making it easier for employers to access criminal records and proof of good conduct. There has been an overview of a general and educational committee at the current legislation board, such as the review of the bill for the legislation on the communication counsel for sports and youth workers, adopted as law May 15 of this year, and for the proposal for a synonym for the management of measures against violence and its consequences, i.e. It's 409. In the latter case, it is assumed that a group of workers assigned will be appointed to identify existing sources of institutions and partnerships working with children in order to obtain information from a criminal registry and to assess the need for potential reforms, as B.3. There is also an examination of electronic solutions regarding access to criminal records that have only access to a so - called private certificate, such as Article 8. The rules of the State Attorney No. 680/2009, of the criminal record of the state. In the opinion of the Committee, it is important to see Article 7. The bill will also be considered for this work, including In view of the fact that the arrangement is in accordance with Article 4. Section 8. Law of High School, No. 92/2008, but the directive is to help ensure a safe work environment for students of public school. In the treatment of the matter, the importance of having a clear relationship with other schools was emphasized, especially at high school. In this regard, it is important that high school levels be made available to the physical security of learning from people's schools as well as to ensure that, where possible, the public school qualifications will fall to the level of high school. The committee considers the above - mentioned material, an important tool for developing into a job, and a wide range of skills based on continued study. The committee points out that such assessment is expressed as an operation in the budget 2020/2024 for the 22nd Environment Education and Education, which is stated to have to be consistent with the physical security assessments and to increase the availability of individuals. This will be done by increasing conversation between stakeholders, such as high school instructors and school ladders. So the committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: Instead of the words ▪15 weeks, to the 7th, 2 mg. Section 3. Exenatide: 12 weeks. A Birgir Ármannsson of a year, who was absent from the case, signed with a warrant in 4 mg. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. As a result, Páll Magnússon, president of England, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Jónsson Ingónsson, Árnadóttir Kolbrún, Álfheiður Ingadóttir, Ármannsson of Aargótir, Helgi, and Línækæk Sævarsdóttir Anna.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u182	Madam President. ▪ So much more than just a school to write to the People's School in Flattage. I think that's a pretty good description of how great the phenomenon of democracy is. I know a lot of people who have gone, for example. I have not yet met anyone who was not happy or happy with the decision to go to a public school or public school, and I am very happy that here is finally becoming a law law against this kind of school in Iceland. I wanted to come up first of all to say thank you. Minister for filing the case and the Committee for completing it. I think it's incredibly valuable for Iceland to be bringing this variety into the flea educational system. I named the People's School in Flatland. That's just such an example. Now I know where at least two people, another young woman of my age who had been working and doing all kinds of things but somehow didn't find herself in the workforce and didn't quite know what she wanted to do, and thought about moving her family to Flattyr and going to the People School. And she's really happy, she's just like this outlet, and she's making special use of that side of the school. The other one I know is my friend's mother, an adult woman -- or like that, I guess I'm an adult too. But that's different. So she's back in the latter part of her career, so to speak, a great artist. She cleaned up and went to the People's School of Flatland, and she also found herself in this awesome environment that the People Schools can offer. So I think it's a very big step we're taking with this legislation to secure this school and ensure that this kind of study is available in Iceland. You see, not everyone who fits into the form, into the boxes that our education system sets us up a little, and beyond, this is also an opportunity for individuals whose heart is inclined toward change, wants to get a break, can be said, in their traditional life, only change and try something new. The demographic schools are such perfect tools for learning all kinds of things, there are often a wide variety of studies, but the way it is in Flatty, and also on Lake Sugar, it is based on the strengths of the environment in the school and the expertise of the area, which I think is also extremely important. I'm not gonna say anything, but I just wanted to come here so much and be glad it's 2nd over. and look forward to making my vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u183	Madam President. Here we'll discuss a very important bill for a public school law. I'm dying to have a few words to say on this occasion. This is a pivotal bill, and we are at a turning point when we are doing so at 2nd. getting into new school laws - I may not say new school points but new school plans - Iceland. It's historic. The purpose of this is to help organize a public school in Iceland, which has the goal of providing, as stated in 1 Timothy 3: 1. and prepare students for participation in democracies, to promote them to become members of society, to take advantage of their opportunities as far as possible. So it's a good bill and an answer to a pressing social cry. In recent years, this subject has been given abundant attention, and it is a cause of joy, the interest that governments have shown in establishing the social schools for the first time here in Iceland. Of course, from all the North and all the countries around us, we know and experience this idea. There have been quite a group of interested people in Iceland who have survived this ideologies here at home, especially through the National Society of Iceland. They have been waiting for a long time. This has been linked to a social group in one way or another for an acute period of 100 years. I'd like to run quickly over a few points now 2nd. I participated in the discussion for the first time. Maybe I'll repeat myself in some way, because I haven't changed my opinion of this case. In the 5th. This bill discusses the funding of the public schools. Like the head of the General and Education Committee, the committee has done so well with this and well knows what you're dealing with. I don't think there's any reason to worry, since these schools don't get the proper payment for the high Ministry of Education. In other parts of the North countries we know, the funding of the People School is part of this framework. This is likely to take place here, and as mentioned in the committee article, these factors are notably discussed at all. Eight. The bill is about, like, what. A manager came in, this part of which some were worried about, who sent a commission to the Committee and to the residence and dormitories. Of course, these commentators chose that this was a little wider, that students could live either in school homes or in their own homes if they live near the schools. I don't think there'll be any difference. Madam President. The reality in today's society is that there are too many young people who leave their old standard schools and disappear in the large group that falls out of Icelandic school. Sadly, many people face uncertainty, and there is an uncertain period in their lives, and many people are affected by difficulties, even misdirections. Most suggest, and just this upbuilding response to such new options, that we must better adapt to the needs of young people, reduce the number of people who live in the way they live; that they will not find a purpose in life, this young and other useful Icelandic youth we have. Madam President. Personal education in high school is different from what we are to get used to in traditional high school. In the social school environment, students have another opportunity to develop in ways that are novel and effective. This is usually higher with both teachers and other students, and opportunities give them a chance to experiment under new circumstances, experimenting in exotic surroundings. This is not part of the traditional school system, i.e. dealing with the theoretical factors and wrestling with the textbooks, although that is, of course, part of the high school program as well. It is rather training in social skills that many people lack in today's society - related to the environment in which schools work. We have two schools working on short-term contracts, so to speak, today. It's the fine school in Sufstad, LungA, and then the People's School of Flatland. All their work is very promising. They live in the environment in which they operate in their own way, the People's School at Sufficiency, which specifically links themselves with art and then the school of Flattune, perhaps linking themselves to nature and the roots of the school and the environment in the West. This is, of course, careful study, maturity, and high value for those who have been separated somewhere along the way. There's too many of them. Icelanders have a special place in this regard. Numberable statistics speak for themselves. Madam President. I named the People's School in Flatland. That's close to me. I know something about him. Like what? paritaprevir Friðbjörg Flanders, the Elíasdóttir of Elias, entered a flourishing career, and we have experienced that the town has changed. This means a lot to this whole environment, and every story that it is. It wasn't a very refreshing gesture for a while toward the powerful inhabitants of Flatune, but the appearance of this school has made a big difference to me. This may well illustrate how the government can help with this kind of action and thus support building work on the grounds of the local people. In the western part of the world, a deep - seated culture is recognized, and in conversations with young people, most of the students are young, and it is a pleasure to stay in the area. We hope that the school will grow, and it is a pleasure to know that the same will apply to the People's School of Sustained, and hopefully more schools will rise. We know how interested we are in the public school program in Lake Saturday... in the magnificently deep - seated educational and cultural setting that has such a rich history of sports education. As we have seen, demography is not a stranger to Iceland. A large number of Icelanders have attended North American public schools, benefited and educated them, and have had very good experiences in school. So far, this ideologies has not been successful in Iceland or has not been successful. The Western government has paid attention to this, and for a few years, a concierge resolution in all the Western states was adopted to consider whether we could set up so - called post schools that are not society schools in their form but perhaps something like this. There's no such thing in Iceland as in public college, but I think this conclusion may have raised some thoughtfulness, and it doesn't have to delay the trend that we're establishing this sort of social school here, and it's a pleasure. Madam President. It's a pleasure, as I've already mentioned, how powerful life has been in this great ideologies here on the land and which are being confirmed by this bill. There is also reason to thank the highest. A minister for the understanding, initiative, and determination she has shown to push this forward and her understanding that we need to respond to the signs that we constantly get about the problem in the Icelandic school system, about the problems of many young people, not all of them, and the ill feelings of many in the school schools and the need to try to meet students who for some reason do not fall into the traditional school system. This is a good step to take because a high school student is a very useful tool for a large group of young people. Finally, I want to justify what I've mentioned before, and I'm aware that Danir and the League of People in Denmark have figured out by research and opinions that the stay of young people at public school, people who have dropped out of school in traditional educational systems, is unequivocally good. The chance of returning to study and continuing to study at higher levels is greatly increased if the stage for training young people, e.g. In a public school, for education of all kinds is so upbuilding.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-06-118.u184	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the General and Education Committee for the coverage and the helpful comments she made on the bill, but I also agree with the question. Congress on the importance of a high school law, especially because we see that the elimination at the high school in Iceland is much higher than in the rest of the North countries. It is true that it greatly increases the probability of doing so, i.e. having this diversity in education, that young people find themselves, and are more likely to find a proper study. That's why I think the bill is very important, that we're finally reaching out for a public school and the ideologies. Thank you very much for your well - being, and I am glad that the matter is getting the progress that we have.
