ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u1	Borist has received a letter from the chairman of the House of Staff on the left. We're out of here. "Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjordsdóttir, be absent at the next time in public. Today, therefore, at the General Assembly as a reserve for her 1st Specialist on the left-hand list of green bids in the district of Hildardóttir Heilsdóttir. She has previously taken her place at the General Assembly, and she is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u2	The president arrived earlier on Wednesday, November 27, the following letter from Andrés Ingi Jónsson, 9th. Smoke. n.: аForseti IIis, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. I hereby announce that today I have made myself known by the Party of the Left Side of the United States. I will serve at the General as an outside senator. Sincerely, Andrés Ingi Jónsson
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u3	Borist has received a letter from the secretary of state asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a petition for this request. 228, through the ministry's out-of-state tours, from Seystein, Sæmundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u4	A respectable president. To this day, the World Constitution Society once again reminded the General of the establishment of a new constitution based on the Council of Governments. This provision has now been ignored for over seven years since the 2012 National Bank. In my conversations with opposers of the new constitution, I felt that those who are most opposed to it base their views on and what is in it. Most common statements are unfounded that with a new constitution the old reef is torn to pieces and thrown to the trash. As noted many times, this is wrong. A new constitution is based on all the basics of the old, and there is no disagreement on the fundamentals. Fear of a new constitution seems to be the key to distributing power to the voters themselves or at least reduce the intensity of the majority of people. In fact, it is particularly interesting how the most powerful opposers of the new constitutions seem to place the same signal between distributing power and tearing up the whole system, as if it were probably that the system was standing and falling by the least voters about things or by some of them being one letter every four years, as if only ministers would take a little more responsibility or voters would take more direct action. That's nonsense, a respectable president, a terror that works best because the forces that have become homey are so afraid of losing their sense of well - being. In some respects, that fear is understandable, but only from the viewpoint of opposers of democratic principles. On the other hand, fear is unfounded because all politicians really have to do to withstand the moderate objection and support announced in a new constitution is to develop better practice, greater responsibility, less willingness. With it, nothing is turned upside down, no tear to bits, and nothing is thrown into the trash. A new constitution is a normal next step in the republic of Iceland development.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u5	Mr. President. It is important for us Icelanders and ministers, especially foreign ministers, to try to open up business with our foreign goods. Therefore, it is important to make a point that during the trip of a foreign minister to Russia, on a public visit, the message is clear, since it is meant to try to re-open the market for Icelandic products, especially food. At the same time, the message must also be clear, that we are not breaking up from the ranks of our friends in the states of the EU, the EU, or NATO. You see, the message is clear. Remember, Russia's commercial pressure did not just fall from the sky. Russia invaded a free and sovereign kingdom, and they took the Monsters. The embargo has to do with mobilization, as well as prevention of the money-covering mass of the yellows and friends of the President of Russia. On the contrary, the Russians imposed a business ban on Iceland's products, especially food. I'm sorry, of course, but it must also be very clear on a trip like this, which I hope will open the door to our excellent Icelandic export products, that we do not do it on the basis of breaking a prince's prince's Western cooperation that is based on democracy, democracy and human rights. That must be absolutely clear on the part of us Icelanders. Then it is ironic, a respectable president, that in the mission of Ministers, a well - meaning mission to open up business is an Icelandic monopoly on a milk market. They normally thirst for outlets, business freedom, etc., but at the same time, they fight the import and competition here at home - with the loyal support of the government groups and, indeed, the Central Party. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u6	A respectable president. Health issues are well discussed and how they are organized just before we take a vote on the budget. Health matters are, as everyone knows, one of the major components of the budget. In a new medical policy, it is emphasised on providing health care in the way we have managed so far, that Iceland's health - care insurance pays on a government contract. They buy, as it were, based on need analysis, according to the needs of the inhabitants of the country. This may have been one of the biggest lacks of construction, i.e. to the need analysis and this definition. Thus, during the course of health care, effective remuneration with their bioavailability are expected to ensure that a well-defined health service based on services related to financing is well-defined. This policy adopted by the General Assembly is clear on how we want to provide health care and, in effect, negotiate with those who can provide the needed health care, regardless of whether it is public or private. Private business, such as we know, is a local automation agency, to form members, health care professionals themselves, and other members. Personalisation is not being discussed where the patient pays himself, that is the difference between privateisation and private business where the government's purchases of this service are expected, but not their own health insurance. That's where the difference is between privateisation and personal business, that the state is the one who buys. According to this, I am extremely worried about all the available agreements made by health care providers at Iceland's Medical Insurance on the health services needed by health - care professionals worldwide by the taxpayers, all the agreements that have been practical for government funds, and at the same time have provided health insurance with good access to necessary health care. These include medical therapists, the Reykjavík Medical Association, the nursing home, a health - care business, so the opposition to enjoying the services of parties such as the clinical community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u7	A respectable president. The newspaper reports that last year only 49% of children were born in the country. At the same time, an agreement on a reduction in the nation's churches may interfere with paying for the church. It is explained that this has had so little impact so far, yet it has resulted in the decline of some 10,000 people in the National Church since the approval of the church agreement, which is the reward of two priests. However, a much greater reduction is already being achieved compared to this one, do not allow these reductions to take place. Is there anyone to explain to me what this new agreement is like as a separation? It certainly is not a financial separation, far from it. Indeed, the new agreement strengthens the financial bond between Church and State and State and State, reducing the monitoring of public funding to the church - less responsibility than more commitment. If that's how separation works, I'm in some side-real, not speaking the same language as the highest. Minister of Justice, I do not practice the same politics as her party. An additional agreement with the church meeting is illegal in my view to the government's law on government finance because it contains a 15 - year revision principle, which states the government financial legislation for five years. There is no definition of monitoring of public funds as defined in the official financial legislation. That is very clear to the agreement that we should refuse this by the General Assembly. This isn't the way it's done. We have simple basic laws on public financial matters. Principles on how the Agency can deal with the Council and with the nation are broken. We are simply not to let this happen to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u8	A respectable president. Out of the morning. 15.30 we will vote for a government budget bill. It is with great pleasure to tell you that three groups of directors submit an adjustment proposal that has to face the minimal growth of the elderly and disability into exactly what it is, the Ministry's minimum policy of development. These are the Piratars, the party of the people, and the United States of America, 15 members of Congress, high to a quarter of the council members, who join here. I think we're growing in the boat that rowes down in that righteous direction. I hope that we will just continue to grow, and then we will all have to get into this great boat and row together for the purpose of eliminating poverty, eliminating this incredibly unfair craze that has occurred over the past few years in those people who have to rely on the advancement of social security. I don't expect that those who don't accompany us on this transition today will pay for it, especially the government groups, but I urge all of you to be careful about how a body of elders handles the elderly and desperate people sitting in a garden and asking for help to have minimal progress, in order to live with minimal reform, because we have put them in a poverty trap that now seems to be broken. Truly, I hope it will break completely off before this government leaves power. [[The president calls.]] Should we not promise them the benefit of the doubt?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u9	Mr. President. Hv. As may be the case in the case of members of the council, local delegates have been present in many of these discussions. I'm primarily going to respond to the protests of the day. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunns Gunnarsson of a constitution earlier. I believe there is every reason to recall here in this council hall that there is a work that is designed to revise the constitution. Of course, individual groups have different positions on how far to go and how much to revise and how to work. On the other hand, the situation in the process involving the presidents of all political groups is that this is being taken in for separation. Some aspects are being considered now and have a plan for the future. In this way, it is tried to communicate in a practical way how to make changes in the constitution without assuming that the result must be everything or nothing, without necessarily preconceiving that all the regulations in the current constitution and adding 35 new ones, such as it was suggested in a council of governance that lay here seven or eight years ago. There's nothing necessary. There are some factors that can be handled and adjusted that are clearly out - of - date; people have mentioned Article 30. which includes a warrant for a president to turn aside the law. Everyone agrees that there is a reason to change this or to bring the terms of the President's section to reality. It is possible to do so without making the extensive changes that some have suggested. It is also possible to take new laws, such as national resources, protection, and other resources, without passing on the rest of the way. [[The president calls.]] You can do that. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u10	Mr. President. The applicant's list of the status of the radio manager cannot be published at the discretion of the RUS director. This is because applying for the job could hinder highly qualified candidates. This is very special in view of the fact that this fine polycentric medium has been preoccupied with transparency elsewhere that clearly does not apply to him himself. In itself, I really agree with the management of VOLV, it may be important not to publish a list of applicants, but I think there should be some other place in the administration, e.g. The courts. It is important and much more important than in VOLV that very qualified candidates are found there. Here we should consider whether or not we should change the law and allow it directly in the administration and elsewhere. There's something else that's disturbed me a little. It's known in the administrations, something's happened, that it's put in the office of the state's top officials without advertising. Under certain circumstances, i.e. by entry within the Board of Directorates, but this is also done without the person working within the Board of Directors. I don't think it'll work out, and I think I know it won't work. It's done, though. Now, clearly, a review of the law needs to be made in this respect. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u11	A respectable president. How low can you lie down? Right - minded people are offended when the Consergians abuse as hard as they can see their situation in the New African country of Namiba. It is a huge bribe, an alleged bribe, and the profit of that, they hide in debino communities and tax collectors. Iceland has come to a development in Namibia and has built trust, which destroyed these wisecoms and misused their situation by exploiting a nation of very poor people. They then hid the rest in societies and taxes around the world, leaving behind in grief and anger. Clearly, the word ethics does not exist in their dictionary. Soldiers searched for the centre of the poorest among the poor and robbed them of their resources by alleged bribes. But how low can you lie down in this country? In 2018, corruption appeared here in an area where 16,000 homes, with over 31,000 people, had to live below the low limit. Or is it normal that some 15,000 people have a shortage, and 3,000 have a serious lack of material things? There are thousands of children who are experiencing a marked lack of material things and are very poor and at the same time as the rich get richer. After that, a vote on the budget will be completed. It is used in an effort to reduce fishing costs to the expense of those who suffer a significant lack of material goods. The shame is the government of the Independence Party, the Left Green and Foreign Forces. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u12	A respectable president. ▪ Why does this have to be so complicated? " asked a young candidate in an article in the News magazine the other day and referred to the problem of recycling waste in Iceland. Icelanders have managed to create so many different versions of classification systems that many people sacrifice their hands and give up for the project and put everything in the same plastic bag. Blue, green, and gray barrels have different laws based on rural areas, even in the same area of waste. Many have called attention to this and have concluded the importance of the uniform system of things. So I'd like to call attention and celebrate because the government is running the case and we're expecting a bill on that matter at the spring convention. According to that, I'd like to make brown barrels and homework a talker. No matter how much we look at it, the most sustainable way to be a landmaker must always be built on and at the homes whenever possible. It is especially suitable for rural population and urban parkers; I am not talking about using methods that bring little carbon into the atmosphere and the newly produced soil in my own culture. However, evolution has been observed in some places at least has been observed that once a common soil has been established in the rural communities, even those who have even buried at home for years have disappeared as a result of pressure to participate in the collective work. So I emphasize that in harmony with the classification systems, there will be a view to creating an incentive for homemaking and emphasis on guidance and support for that project.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u13	A respectable president. A discussion of food and customs in general regularly appears in the local discussion, which often involves selected advocates of liberalism and facts. It often seems to be forgotten that there are two sides of everything, but customs are known worldwide. Nations put on customs to protect their production, their nation's income, and thus balance the facilities involved in the production. For example, the European Union is a large-scale to-do union with one of the areas and countries outside the EU. Icelanders have a specific import auspole in the EU area for scurvy, lamb and processed salmon. They are appointed by the EU to protect their own production and economy and to ensure that farmers and the agricultural sector in the EU territory have provided a measure of safety for their production. Iceland puts taxes on certain products as well as on other countries, and why is this done? Yes, as previously established, it is designed to protect Iceland's production and economy. In the perfect world, it would be as expensive to produce meat in Spain as it is in the province of the Bardlands, but it is not. The weather, the waste management laws, the housing, and the culture conditions are not comparable. Iceland is in the front row when it comes to courting and implementing and weather conditions here are completely different. It has a substantial cost to produce, and then countless other factors are one of the biggest costs to pay. A respectable president. Remember, customs protection is not a typical phenomenon. It is so that most countries and governments have to protect themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u14	Mr. President. At times, reality is quite complex, and it seems to be particularly complex in the operation of many major corporations, which take their place on a global level. You wonder why this reality is so complex, and why business is organized in such a complex way as to testify. We all know that famous corporations, many of the world's largest, I name just Apple and Google, have been given a special look, including in Europe's competitive authorities, because it turns out that these companies don't seem to pay much unless there's a little tax in the world. Icelandic corporation has been a significant topic for discussion. I think it was yesterday that was released an interview with the former financier of that company in which he described that it was difficult to have perspective - because there were only 130 companies in the kit. He said it's hard to keep track of all this. The director of the same company said yesterday or earlier from 14 companies in Britain, and there's probably one ten companies in Cyprus, so I'll mention a few. You must ask what purpose this is for everything. This must serve some purpose. I think this will show us and bring us back to the point of how important it is that we have institutions that can understand, follow along, and trace the activities of these companies in order for them to have a social account of what they have under law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u15	A respectable president. Now we're going to 3rd. I think it's the first time we're on time with that stuff. Then you may be able to thank for the fine work of a financial committee that has been directed under strong control. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson, son of Thor. Other members of the committee may also have a bite of the day's compliments. Although there are different ideas or opinions about how to split the cookie, as indicated here in the number of committees and the colorful lights on the ballot table, this has been a success. The vote that appears is often Colombian, the result a bit obvious, but the interpretation is fun. The union has complained in this and the media that the administrative body was never on the green button to its proposals, but it forgets to report that she's also never been on the green button to the other side, despite many excellent suggestions from that town. There are a few examples, but the art is not exhaustive from the budgets of this year that we are about to approve of today. It is a targeted tax reduction and a change in income taxation between individuals. Changes to previous plans are expected to be implemented in two years instead of three. The birthworm is increased by one month immediately next year and will be up to 12 months in 2021. The contribution to child improvement is also increased by 1 billion and the growth of stocks to housing is also substantially increasing. In accordance with financial plans, there is a significant increase in transport investments and maintenance. From 2017 onward, the increase is 11.6 billion. or 32% in real value. A respectable president. Admittedly, the challenge in terms of government is ahead, and predictions show that we are entering a lower economic growth. Lack of employment is increasing, and the less we gain, the less we need to stay awake. Good luck with what we've been through.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u16	Mr. President. We will discuss the matter of the council, and I will discuss the legal position of the Generals. Thus, the implementation of any European principle and as far as you know it is expected that what is called a European Regulation will be obtained in this country. The question is, How will this happen? Scholars such as Davíð, the son of Þór Björgvinsson, in his great book review either the laws of the material or the administrations of governments, i.e. Regulation. However, he makes it clear that this is done only if the Regulation has adequately corrected it. I've asked the Industrial Minister and received a written answer to which counsellor has been used to evaluate the sources of electricity layer, which is at 45th. and is very narrow and specific, considering that a minister is authorized to issue regulations in the implementation of the law. In answer to the minister's comments, it is the assessment of professional traffic experts that these controversial regulations 713 and 714 can be introduced without a specific new improvement. That is why I have asked a minister: "What legal reasoning, apocalyptic grounds, and legislation were proposed when these narrow sources were assessed to improve these European regulations on land? " I remind you, Mr. President, the legal rights of Iceland are in Iceland's Constitution, the General, not the joint EEA committee, and not the Board of Directors. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u17	Mr. President. I don't think there's enough talk about the forward party. Is the advance team, though, perhaps the most powerful category in the country, the most powerful of the council, the category that always controls which governments are here and how they are put together, and is always there in the center. Yet, it is as if the category is somehow invisible in public talk, almost as invisible as the general members of the VG are in the debate on the Namibian scandal. I think it's time to straighten it out and call attention to the advance group. During the days, a central conference was held in the forward category, where the head of the party, the highest. The secretary of transportation, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, gave a talk that was a milestone because he proclaimed, if I correctly understood, the division's intervention in the most important interests of the nation. As far as I can see, the head of the Annexe Party is approaching in that speech is our match for its policy. In his speech, he even hammered. the importance of the recording of resource regulations in a constitution which will make it clear that the resources of the country are owned by the nation. He also said that the fishing system had not been introduced to make a number of people superpowered. He also said that it had not been created so that the funds that resulted from increased wealth gains would cross accounts in a national country. A respectable president. As far as I can see, the formation of new controversies is far more important than the formation of long - term reforms in the sea. I look forward to cooperating with the forwarding party and other reformers in achieving greater equality and more justice for the benefit of all the people of the land. [[The president calls.]] If so, we might look forward to a time when the great structure will be here at a meeting without friends. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u18	Mr. President. The last few days, from the time the Samherjah scandal exploded in our face, a world of Congress, even though it is likely appropriate to speak specifically of members of the government stand, to the council hall, and outside the council's attention to the importance of the prosecution that it allows people to do the great work that lies ahead. No adjustment from the greater part was made in the 3rd. Despite the fact that the severity of the situation had almost been eaten with a teaspoon in the management hands of the last few days in the budget. In accordance with this, government officials will likely pass laws from minorities in a subsequent manner. That is interesting, especially in the light of words. The prime minister of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, who said that when the case first arose, the government would, of course, investigate the Samherjan case if it was called upon to do so. It is called for as long as money was unsupervised and unsupervised. I have previously declared that our legal system, our investigators, and our courts must be financed to respond to whatever comes, without being subject to political, social, and intervening events. But the situation is the way it is, and when it is scraped, there are other things. We'll see, for example. that the sex offender's judgments are only reduced with reference to how long the case has been forced by the prosecution and/or the police. It is because of a fundamental principle that projects are too many and workers are too few. The situation is that decisions for violations that society has defined as the most serious are cut off because of the way governments live in their respective institutions. This is not a situation that is a decent nation that boasts in the security of the right people. This is not a position for a nation leading to equality, for it is also a fact that the overwhelming majority of sexual misconduct are girls and women. We simply need to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u19	Mr. President. Here we have the second most recent financial bill of this government, and now we have both the time and the patience to run out. At this final talk, we try to improve this bill, which goes on a wide scale, especially from the labor movement and the groups of desperate people and the elderly. We have a suggestion not to leave anyone under the minimum wage, no disability, no senior citizens. That should be possible in the tenth richest country in the world, or what? We also have proposals to add money to an investigator's account for the Samaritan language. However, in a case closely watched by world press and international organizations, the message will likely be that the government makes such a suggestion, not even twice, but twice. Both of these suggestions would be for granted in most people except for those three governmental groups. The only hope for change is to choose a different category from that of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u20	Mr. President. In the interest of a discussion held here at the council in connection with the 3rd district. The financial support bill, the need for surveillance and research institutions in the area of the taxes and the prosecutors, is a reason to address some of the issues that the Minister of Economic and Economic Affairs has mentioned in this regard. The facts show that no one has to question whether any Ministers, in agreement with the government and the council, will go for securing enough funding for these institutions to face temporary pressures this year and the next, and even longer if necessary, and that their funds will be granted in a way that the laws on public finances measure. First, there is reason to point out that there is mainly an increase in projects that were unpredictable but that have recently been identified and that the potential for them to be insufficient at this stage. As a result, insufficient plans and budgets have not been developed in line with government policy in this region. I want to reiterate that a week ago the government also issued a declaration of measures to increase confidence in Icelandic employment, which made clear determination that the funding of these surveillance agencies will be ensured. That's what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u21	Mr. President. This government budget is once again characterized by an uncontrolled expansion of the state's firmies. The economy is subversive, and this does not produce the necessary incentive for the expansion of the Kingdom field. Since its beginning, the government has been trapped in too optimistic economic presidents, and it has relied on too much of the temporary increase in income in the rhythm of the world. We're getting down, and then we're trying to stimulate our jobs, and that's what we're doing in the middle of the group by suggesting an even further reduction in the insurance. We'd like to cut down the state's perspective and management at a total of 1 billion dollars. And to reduce the public business. Despite the wonderful promises of tax reductions, there are many rates raised. The tax system is becoming more complex and complex. The wealth is now fired with a tilt for the first time in seven years. There are barriers to uncertainty. Mr. President. It's a budget without planning and advice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u22	V.E.G. President. The changes we're about to complete here by 3rd. The financial bill is primarily technical. All major changes were completed at 2nd. The financial laws that we agree with them now make sense according to an important economic role. Head's at the top. Governments appear here and are directly designed to cope with improving economic growth, to provide services in the economy, to increase the quality of value and to continue to build up the infrastructure, to support the economy and homes in the country, and thus to support the plans set out in a government contract and approved by a national financial programme. V.E.G. In this way, a government will leave all its produce more and better in the economy, and we can, with a handsome leftover on the original level, continue to pay off the debt of state funds. I want to finally thank you for everything. The labour board for good work and for the rest of the staff to complete this work and coverage according to the work programme. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u23	Mr. President. In the United States, we are making a final effort to improve these budgets by 2020. We suggest that the Fishing Room be strengthened so that it can better monitor the fishing resource. The Commission will not be able to respond to increased stress for the U.S. Army documents unless the council agrees with the United Nations proposal for additional financial resources. It is empty talk that the government will provide the funds and fall to withdraw the teeth from research of the documents, since the Council is the means to provide financial resources and reserves for what is unforeseen and may arise unexpectedly in 2020. The demand that no one be in charge of the minimum wage is supported by a motion from the United States, Pirates and Gang of the People. I got it. I got it. Councilmen to pay these important and essential suggestions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u24	Mr. President. The problem is that there have been a number of aspects of this budget, this bill, and some suggestions, some of which are practical and others inferior. But it hasn't changed a bit since then. I'm here at the end of this meeting to mention the overall picture, which is that in just six years, the financial expenses have been increased by 50 percent. We must wonder if there is enough evidence in our community, whether we see enough difference in society compared with what it was six years ago, in view of the tremendous increase in government spending. We can imagine, when it came to budgeting in 2014, if men had the means to increase their expenses by 50 percent, if the population had not seen it, and if there had been no opportunity to attack on a very large scale and, in many cases, necessary system changes. That's not to be considered. The system is in many ways defective and is run in the same way that has been expanded, and it has increased by half in six years.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u25	Mr. President. The next last government budget will be accepted, and the picture has become quite clear. The attempt to form a government of two highly different categories has failed, perhaps because they had to do so much compromise, perhaps because it is thoughtless and likely both. Under the laws, nearly no attempt is made to combat roughness. When it comes to action against the climate, the government does not have the courage to face the exciting future that awaits us in the coming years.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u26	A respectable president. After all, the contents of the budget are responsible for the responsibilities of the administrations. Sadly, this does not tell the whole story, for these total amounts are very low in understanding. After all, we have no idea what all these billions of people are going to do and go there. We have a requirement, the council and the people, that this is better divided so that we know the legal rights of the Ministers to prevent ministers from taking reasonable measures in the handling of the funds. Other than that, with the financial team it's done well. In this environment, there is a low impact. It's a good idea to have more projects, but it's based on guesswork. [[The president calls.]] We're not going to know what the benefits of their project are and the government fees that are being paid. It's just being guessed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u27	Mr. President. We've come to the final day of funding by 2020 and I just want to say and ask the entire body of Congress to watch the overall picture of the budget work that the Parliament does each year starting with the shape of financial policy that we reviewed in spring, is based on a financial program that lies ahead of spring, and then a financial bill in the autumn we're approval of today. This entire process is proving its value. This process proves its value by putting down responsible budgets that respond to a fluke. There's a soft landing in the economy. This financial bill and this budget have been rated by sources to be a turning point in Iceland's economic management. I'm happy today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u28	A respectable president. These budgets do not reveal that the year 2018 had 31,000 people under the minimum limit. Fifteen thousand people in Iceland have a shortage of material things, some 3,000 of which have a serious lack of material things. Thousands of children still live with the shortage, including older citizens, who do not trust to see their doctor because of fear of the expense of their illness - related research and medications. That's why I say: It's hard to believe that the budget should be approved that will not be handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u29	Mr. President. Now that we finish here, 3rd. it's important to look at the bigger picture. Never have the financial expenses increased in such short periods of time with equally little apparent success. We still have the same problem in our health system, the same list of waiting, the same flow problem, the same list of nurses. We are once again leaving the poorer and older citizens the better that has been negotiated in a labour market and in public investments we are still under the long - term average. It is starving the necessary structures that have long been called after. The government has cast off the warning message that it has been directed since its beginning that there was an excessive increase in budgetary times in economic management. There would have been space to reduce taxes and to significantly increase the public investment during a time of economic decline, but the government has by its spending efforts made sure that the remainder of this terms. [[The president calls.]] That's the eulogy of this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u30	Mr. President. We're here to vote on budgets of 2020. It's good money. These are the budgets in which we are promoting our health system, promoting our birthworm system, and setting up a three - step tax system that makes the tax load fall on those with minimal pay so that their provisions will be increased. This is what we do at the same time as there's a recession in the financial affairs. This is a wise economic government, in which less incomes are not met by cutbacks but by means of cutbacks are to be given and given to support and support many of the groups that especially need it. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u31	Mr. President. These are good funding that contribute to building, while called during a successful pace. On the other hand, I want to take advantage of this opportunity and repeat it because of what's been said in 3rd. the budget, that it is absolutely set, and was shown last in case of the highest. Minister of Justice and has previously shown in the highest court case. The secretary of finance, that the surveillance and research institutions that will have to deal with recent projects will ensure full scope for this research and this should be properly supervised. V.E.G. Of course, ministers will abide by the laws on public financial matters and will make clear to the Allied Council the change in budget or provision from reserves, as expected in the law. But no one in this room needs to doubt that these institutions will be able to provide sufficient space to handle these matters properly. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u32	Mr. President. I come up here for the words of the highest. Minister of Justice as well as the highest. Prime Minister, who has decided to vow to be dosed from the government's pocket, on the other hand, at the highest level. Minister of Justice, on the other hand, the highest. Secretary of the budget, for the research agencies and the prosecutions who have alleged economic violations and tax laws now attributed to the Samherja papers. I must say, I find this completely unacceptable with all the resources of the Council rather than with the individual government officials. I'm not sure that the government will be aware of what it looks like for the universe and the media, foreign as national media, when Iceland's government proposes needed funds for these institutions because government ministers, with the highest power. A seaman minister inside the table is going to feed these institutions with his own interests. [[The president calls.]] I don't think it's completely acceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u33	Mr. President. This is where we used to talk at the highest. Prime Minister, the same one that replaced the government, saying that it was going to create better reconciliation, more consultation, and increase the respect of the General Assembly. And what happens? She's ignoring the Council. She's going to give it up. Minister of Justice and the Supreme Court. The secretary of finance decides when, when, and how much to post. In the event that our proposal will not be accepted here today, I'm going to say to a greater proportion of legal committees, who made no such suggestion, and those who reject it: subjugation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u34	A respectable president. We're about to vote for an unusually early student on not only good financial laws but great things that deal with a great many aspects of society. We continue to build up, we share in reducing the negative effects of the economy, working against it with increased funds for investments. Here, under the faithful lead of chairman Willum Þór Þórsson, has done a great job, professional and business, and I know that we in here all agree that this is how the pot is prepared. As a result of the opinion that has come up, a reversal of the fact that people don't understand the composition of public financial laws, I would like to reiterate that the government has declared that all the research necessary to do will be financed. Only in reserve is 3 billion. That won't be a problem. Everything else is out of turn because of the opposition, a technical twist that doesn't help anyone. [[The president calls.]] The important thing is that they have enough money to do what has to be done, and that will secure the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u35	A respectable president. Here comes one silk cap from another and tells us we're about to vote for the best of the budget. [[It's been a hell of a ride.]] However, the government intends to continue hanging on a social security network that few or no one understands. Sick old people are waiting to get into a nursing home. Governments tax poverty cruelly, cutting down shameless those who are ill. One hundred and twenty-five percent of children suffer a variety of lacks, the basic needs of the citizens are not present, the lack of food, clothing, housing. The failure of the government is complete in spite of the severe oppression and the demand for greater justice for those who are far, far below poverty's limits. Ironically, the government boasts of unprecedented kindness at the same time that it denies justice to poor people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u36	Mr. President. Now, for the first reason to guess that under the circumstances and economic developments, we are doing quite well with the balance between spending and, in many cases, the increase in money to the important people's joint projects but in the process of reducing the spells and the least, in particular, the most necessary, those with and under them. I don't think that in all the chaos and massive forces that are going on here today, this must not be forgotten. The big lines on the budget bill are positive. We are able to cope with difficult circumstances to sail well, passing over many of the effects on our way. We are on the right track with this, and we are making good results with the financial resources available.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u37	Mr. President. You might continue with the discussion here that there will be no legal resources for the budget of 2020. However, that is not the case at all. The bill already expects 200 billion. K. an increase in the office of the head of the state tax due to increased tax control, and these contributions have been made because of the need for it to increase since 2017. So there's a budget on the budget bill as it says. In addition, there have been reviews on how to ensure more funding for the monitoring and research institutions may be needed thereafter. Therefore, I believe there is no reason for me to make any further adjustments. There's a lot of things being done about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u38	A respectable president. Certainly 200 million are being added to IRS, but the 200 million were meant for everything else. There was an unexplained way to increase the government's income when there was a slight economic crisis here. Now these 200 million people are to be used in this matter. What, then, will happen to the income that was to be replaced by 200 million, the income of which would be increased? I don't get it. It's a very serious tone hit here by counsellors who seem to be revealing that they don't understand how budgets work, how financial management works. We need to know at the Council. Why do 6.8 billion go to the General Assembly and its surveillance agencies? Why are there 46.6 billion in transport and communication? Why are there 1.9 billion in tourism, etc.? It is not explained, and when not explained, the government, the Ministers, can do anything with the money. [[The president calls.]] And afterward, when we consider and ask how it went, they will say, "Good. " We were doing just fine using all these billions of them for whatever we wanted. [[The president calls.]] It's just a trigger and an emotional decision. This is a terrible budget bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u39	A respectable president. These are very good budgets. There are two things I would like to mention. First, it's like we took action on a new teacher, we put 220 million in it, and what's been happening? There is a big attendance at teachers'studies, over a 50% increase from year to year. Next time, I'd like to mention that we went to book support. What has happened during this brief period of time? A 47% increase in children's books and reading in the country is increasing. This is where I mention two procedures that are very well-targeted and are immediately effective. It's a government that goes into it, and we see the results almost immediately. I'm very proud of this, I'm very proud of what we're doing, and that's why, of course, I'm paying votes with these budgets and how we're doing things.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u40	Mr. President. According to the law, the use of a general reserve is subject to strict conditions, and the directives should be interpreted narrowly. That's what the report says. It says that expenses need to be inaccessible, and they are not before 2020. There is no surprise that next year's Samherja case will have to be investigated. In addition, expenses must be made so that there is no other way to meet them, as the law says. This, too, is not fulfilled because we still have funds that can handle this. If it's intended to use reserve financial classes, the expenses also need to be unexpected according to the law, which they are not in this case. And then I remind the U.S. Congress that a reserve for the district attorney is empty. That's 0K. In it, both 2019 and 2020. That's why, Mr. President, it's not a technical twist to point this out. On the other hand, not to support an immediate suggestion made here by others suggests a sad sand box of activity.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u41	Mr. President. I think it's a big concern, and it goes out for this house, how the top. Ministers and ministers. Government senators interpret laws on public financial matters, laws that we set ourselves as a border on our work. 24th par. the general reserve is very clear and should be looked narrow. More than a portion of the legal committee yields to what ministers say and the interpretation of the minister's law on public financial matters. Hv. The budget should be for monitoring and maintenance, not to subject to the interpretation of a minister of the government on public finances. It's obvious that if they leave, we're breaking the rules we've made ourselves. [[The president calls.]] That's embarrassing. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u42	A respectable president. I think there's good reason to discuss a little more about public financial laws in this room and the words that have fallen away from the highest. Minister of Justice, the highest. Prime Ministers and other members of the administrative body It is perfectly clear what is permitted and what is not permitted to do. It is not permitted to transfer funds from the governor to the district attorney. It is not allowed to move from one source or another. There are three other agencies; a regional district attorney, with some 1 billion in total donations, three or more combined with just over 600 million. K. The district attorney has presented a reasoned request of up to 150 million. K. additional supplies needed to carry out the duties of the office. Is it due to the legal rights of the other three institutions, which would be up to a quarter of their budgets? I think it must seem to me that it isn't. It will be seen from reserves, but it is very clear that there is no unexpected or unpredictable and not a petition that cannot be answered in any other way, a financial request that is reasoned by the local district attorney on what needs to be done. [[The president calls.]] It's a sandbox game, and the law on public finances is being violated with open eyes. [[The point is, it's true.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u43	A respectable president. When we now agree with budgets for 2020, we see a fine result of responsible financial administration in recent years. It is important to live at a good time, to pay off debt when opportunity arises, and it is important to show counsel when it is well - worked. Thus, over the years, we have been living in the best way to cope with changing circumstances without starting debt collections. Wise financial management now allows us to respond when the economy slows down. Under the strong position of the state's funds, we can still add needed investments in the interior, now that this is most important in the economy. We continue to build basic government services and to increase contributions to important issues, and most important, these strong points give us the opportunity to look ahead and support handsomely in education, research, and innovation, thus laying the basis for the support of society for the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u44	Mr. President. About two weeks ago, I said here that a system of corrupt thinking was characterized by Icelandic government. One form of it is that not just in recent years but in recent decades, all too little money has been spent in monitoring institutions in Iceland. Everybody knows this. True, it has been done a little to try to improve it, that's right, but not at all enough. We know how big the problem is and that some money should be transferred in some litigational group to make up for it in individual cases is not enough. That this is the solution shows that it is not taken seriously, at least not serious enough, how sick many of these institutions are. They need much more money in order to fulfill their legal role, so we should not be procrastining whether public financial laws are broken or not. [[The president calls.]] Of course, they're not meant to be broken, but at least we should be funding the legal role of these institutions. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u45	Mr. President. I like this budget bill. I'm going to start by thanking a budget for her work in behalf of the budgets that are under here. This is important, for a good economic government makes it possible for us to pay off debts. We can add social infrastructure. We've never worked so hard on climate and environment, it's a huge health structure. We're offering a bill on the prolongation of maternity and parent vacations. We're changing the income tax system that works for the less paid. There is building in the infrastructure of tourism. There's an extra for the teachers' language, as mentioned earlier, in innovation. When we are in the down cycle facing us, we are taking on increased projects, including some of them. In transportation and other structure related to travel, not talking about nursing homes and other areas of construction here. These are good financial laws, which I trust most of the people in this room will support. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u46	President. I just want to ask them members of Congress who are going to vote by divulging a government law on government finance with this payment, and if the more part of the Council votes by doing so, to take the initiative of a more part of the budget and to take the initiative of a minister: What kind of message does it send out into society? If the secretary of finance, the majority of the budget and the greater part of the Generals decides not to obey the law, it sends out a message into society. How does the public feel about following the law? You're undermined by law and order in this country. You know that, sit with it in your stomach. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come This isn't how it works.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u47	V.E.G. President. It's got the highest. Governments confirm and pledge that institutions responsible for tax and economic violations will be able to cover expenses, unforeseen and inevitable. The institutions involved - don't forget - and we're accepting sources to have more than 5 billion to play next year and 307 men of a powerful group of experts. It is natural, most logical, and in accordance with the laws and laws that prior to obtaining new sources of advice that the law allows and use their financial resources. That's the way it is, and that's the way it is in the hot tub. To argue that someone is violating and violating the law is serious. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[The point is, isn't it serious if it's true?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u48	Mr. President. I just want to make this right because of the debate that has developed about the use of government and that we have far more authority than we've had in the past. There is a certain process that must be followed. It's the process that the budget will hold on and not give a discount. Then I'd like to review it, so people have it behind the ear that here speak colicly, that I think, on this matter, it was a matter of opinion. The budget of the year was the year when the minister of finance for restoration decided in the middle of a summer to collect 4 billion from reserves. The government did not last - unfortunately, or I don't know what to say - age to address the matter so that first people should learn what their own actions are before they start to cry out here in the greater part that the law on public finances is being violated. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u49	Mr. President. This financial bill has established the ideologies. It is ideologies that the Agency should be placed above the legislature authority in these decisions. There is a ide behind debilitation of surveillance agencies. It is also a ide that is responsible for strengthening surveillance agencies. For years, the independent party has had a secret of the policy of reducing what independent men call the surveillance industry. There is nothing wrong with our opposition to government that the Ministers of the Independence Party will fulfill their word to see to it that surveillance agencies are getting the necessary funds to work. It is also the ideologies behind the suggestion to ensure the minimum wage for our poorest people, and it is also ideologies to destroy it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u50	A respectable president. I'm not going to sit here and think that we're going to weaken a place of observation. We have invested enormous sums of money over the past few years in promoting the surveillance institutions that are responsible for the role discussed here. As I came into the past, because the notes referred to have been published late, not provided adequate plans and financial proposals in accordance with Article 21 and page 22. The law, since people are involved in that law. What does the law on public financial matters require? It is assumed that a minister will seek first the means to make full use of the resources available before looking for new sources. The tools that apply here and the law clearly indicate that the Ministers have transferred rights from the previous year, change the exchange of funds into a follow-up with one assignment to another within the same category, or use a reserve for the relevant seminary, that financial and economic ministers advise from a general reserve if the case is in place, or that the General Assembly will provide financial contributions to new sources or intermediate documents to assist when it is needed. [[The president calls.]] We will be standing, ensuring these institutions sufficient funds to deliver a stream of the subjects in the area and the pressures in the area, out of the individual issues the politicians should not be pointing out specifically.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u51	A respectable president. After listening to strong defence talks from members of the administrations, it is only good to relate this official secret and the incident that took place here last night. Everyone knows it was a panik of the government and the highest. Last night, the prime minister tried to meet the request and request of the district attorney for more money. But what happened? There's a retreat, and, of course, the whole team needs to be framed into the same form. Men need discipline. This is nothing more than a reversal of methodology on the part of the government party. It is quite clear, only if the prime minister corrected it, that the will was quite the same yesterday. We'll start carvein' around here on the budget, and we'll vote later on what it'll be like. What this discussion today tells me mainly is that on major projects ahead of you, the princely act that must be handled in Icelandic society, it will not be taken because it is the government that is under, not the community. [[Take it up in: Peoples.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u52	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson has sometimes referred to an sideliness in which he has been concerned about living. I have to say, no matter what. paritaprevir I think Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear is a problem. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir lives in some side being. As far as I can see from her words, I can see that she has completely imagined some developments that have no real support and must take her case out of that viewpoint. She's the one who had the speech. A senator moved here -- I'm not usually the one who's saying a big deal at the council, but this speech was bullshit. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u53	A respectable president. In fact, this discussion has become all too much more to do with the vote. I don't know if I'm supposed to say something like that. paritaprevir A Birgir's Ármannsson called bullshit. I'm going to, though, because there's been a panik in the government that's forgotten to inform the head of the Agency and the secretary of transport and the local government. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] The nonsense being presented here is in the spirit of a ready-to-know story. Let's try to create some fake, try to create some nonsense, which is, in fact, the whole structure of the management body here on technical exports. If, in fact, men are saying that this is not something you can get money to the organisation that we say is possible and correct in the law, does the government intend to vote against or oppose it in the next year's budget when we accept the financial authority we have? [[The president calls.]] Is that the purpose of this discussion here, so I'm going to get out of here too, okayhv. þm. Log Einar Einarsson? [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u54	Mr. President. Here we are paying votes for the change in proposals which are designed to increase funding for the head of the IRS. It was stated in the case of the chairman of the budget board of the past that 307 people were involved in these complex issues, but it is correct to state, because the figures are somewhat misleading, that there are 29 who work for the tax investigator in an extremely complex study. Studies involving tax laws are very delicate, very complex, stretching over many countries and can easily burn up if bad. We recently received a report that about 15% of the estimated tax from an enterprise's profit goes to taxes and is lost in taxes nearly ten billion dollars. I challenge members of Congress to think of the 10 billion, what can be done with this money if we do well when it comes to tax research. I urge you to vote with this proposal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u55	Mr. President. This proposal goes on for 10 million. K. ... tothecommunicator and inventors and women's company in innovation, with over 300 members. Although these communities have not received any government support, their importance is clearly listed in the government's administration covenant. The Management Board of Newborns has said that there is no strength available for the interest of pioneers and inventors, let alone women in innovation. It's incontrovertible, Mr. President, at the same time as a whole of the Ministry has this group of lawsuits on its own. Let us not forget that next year, the festival of women in innovation is to be held, and the government is in the field of that vital issue. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u56	Mr. President. As we have seen, the United Nations is a complex national issue, a case that is being watched very closely in the large world, and international institutions are doing the same. Now, the district attorney's office has just asked for more money. There is also a dollar in the reserves of an earmarked district attorney and, more importantly, in the budgets here being provided, there is a physical reduction in the office of a local district attorney so that the budget cannot even be kept in the hands of inflation. So here we're confirming less money to the district attorney by 2020 than it is 2019. In addition, do people find it normal for the head of the Independence Party, one of all people, to decide whether, how much, and who will get the money to investigate the Samaritan language? This is what happens when reserves of advisers are used, not financial provisions. This foreordain would take a course in all other councils, not the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. This tells of a story that goes far beyond the rocks. So I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u57	Mr. President. As noted earlier today, the government and individual ministers have made it clear that the needs of the important organizations involved in tax research and other research related to financial delinquency will be met. It is based on government financial laws, so Congress officials need not worry that the institutions that have an important role in the investigation of the delinquency and other offenses may not be involved. The order of transfer at the 11th hour of the nature of the event is formalism and deity, and that's why I say no to this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u58	A respectable president. When it is before a minister and is available to a council, a brief discussion of additional funds is not open to people or mere showy to listen to them and to become part of them. So I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u59	Mr. President. I've described it before, and I'm not alone with the opinion that our important institutions and the justice system all should be financed so that it can end a matter as we are here, the Samaritan case, without being subject to the presence of politics, well will, and after the experiences of other emotions that arise. I'd like to respond to a word or two. paritaprevir Ármannsson, the son of an Aargian, described the matter as a cause for concern. On the contrary, I think it would be a good reason why it would relieve me of the fact that the situation is as if we were here, General, to make a decision about this, not that it was an individual statesman who did it outside these halls. This can add to a certain autonomic nature of the strains in question, which are completely unacceptable. Here's your chance, and I'll go back to word. A senator who referred to it as a mob to present this proposal at that time. I don't know how to answer that in a different way than that, so let's just try to make sure that the next big deal comes up on time - or what? - Some days before. [[The president calls.]] What exactly is the meaning of this message? We are responding to a situation that arises, and here are circumstances in the Senate Hall to finish that matter. I'll bet you it would be better for the council to have the fingers in this than for some ministers. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u60	Mr. President. The government said no. The commission to grant the request of the district attorney for the necessary donations to the office due to the huge U.S. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] [[The president calls.]] Once again, we have come to see that governments do not control their temper, and it's a question of whether - [[To the point: This is bullshit.]] [[Mr. President wishes that a senator be at peace to express himself (Go forward.) below this joint.]] below this joint) Mr. President. Now the government has made a decision. The budgetary committee points to whether to submit a change in the International Assembly of Iceland, which has the legal authority to allow the district attorney to obtain the necessary budget, as the district attorney has requested. Hv. The legal committee was not allowed to make any changes in its proposal. Rejecting the necessary legal authority for the office of the district attorney was predictable by the Independence Party, perhaps by the forwarding team, than by the left movement of an offer to support it and turn it down my attention. [[The president calls.]] I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u61	A respectable president. It is worth the attention when it falls into the word of someone here that we, representing the legislature, who said those who have the legal authority, make a suggestion when we're paying a vote on budgets that now frame 140 million. K. restructuring the most direct route to the large research available. Everything else that has been seen with these fine management teams would then only be added in case more is needed, but here, at least, at least The lawgiver out and the sheep market made it possible that we are responding to what, for example, we are meeting the requirements. The district attorney requested. He wants to add six people to his home immediately and probably two at the end of the year, so it can be better if necessary. What are we waiting for? I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u62	This is a good suggestion, it's just a suggestion that there is more to these tests and then we should watch that if there is not enough human beings like the district attorney has requested and if there is not enough money to be given to the standards needed for this investigation, everyone who votes against this proposal will be included in limiting the study. If limited, it can be corrupted. There's a suggestion to put into this increased budget. I'm not saying that you really need the money, there are others who say so - the district attorney said that there was more money to be paid. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] What I'm saying is, if you turn down this proposal and you need money and then you need staff, of course, you're responsible for it. If this study is lost, it is clear who is to blame, the majority at the council. [[The point is, maybe it's just... the whole time.]] The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u63	Mr. President. This vote has taken a long time, and I can think of a story when a foreigner who was here on his journey asked a friend how the Icelanders would always give direction when they were in the corner. He did not know, but he said that there was likely evidence of Iceland's historic interest. And here we are experiencing the same thing. There's a request from the district attorney. He thinks he needs money, and here we have a unique opportunity to do so. The lawyer may decide that he has the resources, but instead, perhaps because we feel so uncomfortable with being a little asshole, we're going to act like nothing's happened. Then we're gonna give it up to the highest. The secretary of finance decides on how money will be distributed, and then we're going to accept the money afterwards. It's terrific. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[The president calls.]] I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u64	Mr. President. Now we are making budgets for 2020. Then we are to take a position on the costs we know and have planned to land in 2020. V.E.G. The Minister of Justice arrived in a month ago, telling of the law on government finance and how to deal with any unexpected situation in 2020. I propose, Mr. President, to the highest. The prime minister stands for meetings on public financial laws at the government table, for it is clearly not unnecessary. We know exactly what the district attorney's request is. He has told us how many employees he needs to complete these assignments. There are already 100 cases taken care of on the table of the district attorney. The court's request is ignored, and a reserve is referred to for the case party that does not even exist. [[The president calls.]] What's the bottom line? Government and what. Councilmen doing with this problem? They're pulling their teeth out of their office, they're pulling their teeth out of their research on the Samherja papers. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u65	Mr. President. A government accountant's report on the control of Fishing Resource's Fishing Office shows that the monitoring of marine resources is limited, and there is uncertainty that this will produce the desired results. The monitoring of an event is weak and unrecognised, and it cannot be seen that the Fishing Office knows whether the control of linked bodies in the seas over the labor departments is in accordance with the maximum law defined. Two years ago, an interview with a fishing manager on the news program Hick, he said that a fish lab could not be a failure to perform its legitimate role and that the seabed office was aware of that. The response of the government to this serious analysis is raising contributions to Fish Office by 1.7%, which is below the level of inflation. The government contributes to an overall decline in the follow-up of the fishing resource next year. It just doesn't work. I hope so. The senators see it. They take the red off to the green. [[The president calls.]] There's still time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u66	President. I'd like to agree with this. This is a news system that has been successful in many ways because the main objective was to ensure sustain sustainability. It was added that greetings could be handed over in order to improve efficiency and so forth. In the end, there have been bad consequences. However, there seems to have been an reasonably good policy, but there is no control over the absence of an outcast, i.e. to ensure the end of the sustainable business. In spring, the majority agreed to fish farms, and they promised a beautiful fishing facility and patrolrs that the funds they would need to look out for them and that the best possible instruments would be there and funds to make sure that nature would enjoy the doubt. We talked about this during spring, but as shown in a case or two. paritaprevir Oddný G. My Harðardóttir is now increasing her donations less than inflation is, the inflation eats up more, so there is a reduction in real production. [[The president calls.]] Of course, as we mentioned this spring, we knew that there would be no increased surveillance. This is the situation and, of course, scare the steps. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, we do not rely on extra supervision unless you have to, but you try not to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u67	Mr. President. The surgeon general has said that more joint replacement operations are needed and that long waiting lists need to be shortened. Inland hospitals, there is an increasing growth in cleaning and replacement operations. So there is no room for the growth of replacement operations at the Land Hospital. Long waiting time reduces the effectiveness of the procedure and affects the quality of life of the patients. This proposal goes on and on that Iceland's Medical Insurance will get 200 million. K. Additional benefits were made to negotiate with a health care provider for replacement surgery. I encourage the Parliamentary World to support this splendid proposal, especially my independent friends, who are now privileged to support the exclusive initiative, patients for the benefit of their own. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u68	A respectable president. There are a lot of missing health systems, and it's a nice suggestion, but I don't know how it's set up, so to speak, exactly to this place, etc. Although I completely agree that it takes action, it's not exactly this way. I won't vote for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u69	I'm going to vote with this because the problem is a huge pile-up. The lack of both doctors and this service at the Land Hospital has been a major problem because the public system has been starving. This is a problem we face. In order to avoid limping and even becoming microorganisms, people need to undergo replacement surgery as soon as possible. That's why I say yes, but it must be handled. This has been repeated, the public system has been starving, as we saw in Mckinseyr's report on the Land Hospital, and increased by the expert services and special contracts to privatize it through the budget. It has been a secret and clear policy over the last few decades to create exactly such circumstances, that patients suffer, and that they must place their money in the private enterprise. But it is very dangerous to build a very large industry, the money industry in health care. In contrast with education and other industry, health services are based a little on the same thing as prison. [[The president calls.]] We want to reduce the number of prisoners and we want to reduce the number of patients. As soon as we make a profit deposit, we are creating a real danger. Yeah, in this case, because of the problem, but it has to be fixed. There's a lot of government funding to be raised.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u70	Mr. President. There is a need to improve money to shorten a waiting list for joint replacement operations, we agree with a carrier on this, but we feel that the earmarks of private funds, especially when they are available and have shown that the hospitals in Akureyri and Ak Aranei both have been able to take good care of it and that they are interested in it. So I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u71	Mr. President. Here is a occult attempt to chew at the roots of the public health system, in the disguise of being helped by a certain group of patients, when it is established that within the public health system, there is an opportunity for more and the highest. A health minister is already on the task of making the knots so that it will be done. That's why I say no. [[What about the government's wait-list policy?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u72	A respectable president. Of course, I will say no to such a propulian proposal that has come forward. [[Up front.]] This isn't about the missing funds, it's about making contracts with Iceland's Health Insurance and making better use of the funds that are already involved. I can honestly say that I approve of making deals with those who provide the best access to health care and provide it in the most practical way, both for the public and for the patients. However, this is not done by bringing a political proposal for the 3rd district. It needs to be discussed in other locations. I believe we can use the financial resources of the health service considerably better, including agreements with the clinical community instead of going abroad and other such. On the other hand, saying no is a small matter. That's why I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u73	A respectable president. At my death, I had hope, but not because members of the Independence Party began to deny the personal enterprise. It remains that there are realities, not just dozens of people in the community, but thousands of people, waiting for replacement operations. So, what is our role here? It is to ensure sufficient funding for immediate action, immediate action for the people to help them, relieve their suffering, and improve the quality of life. The government is firm in its claim and ideologies so strongly supported by the Independence Party, but I support and say yes to this proposal to help the government and the health insurance to negotiate, in this case with the private people. You can also negotiate with the Norwegians and other hospitals. You have to go on the job of destroying those lists. That's our big job, and that's why I'm saying yes. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u74	Mr. President. I feel sorry for members of the Independence Party who have walked in the survival of the clinical extreme and come up here, hiking out some embarrassing explanation that they cannot support a waiting list where a thousand people are waiting in their home and out of society. I wouldn't have believed it until I see it now that so many in this room are ready to extend the suffering of this group. It's bad to be so back at the alphabet, because maybe this challenge would have been more beneficial if I had told her earlier. Of course I'll say yes to this proposal. It is not propulian or other; it is designed simply to relieve the suffering of a certain group of people who have waited too long for them to believe in the beliefs of fanatics at the Ministry of Health. [[The president calls.]] I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u75	A respectable president. This proposal is an outstanding example of a suggestion that could be directed to a specialised health care system, where it would be more effective to process the much waiting list that follows these specific measures. Of course, the official secret that everyone knows is only half the story because it takes 12 months to get on a waiting list after a replacement surgery today. It takes 12 months to wait for the phone call to let people on this waiting list and it is extremely possible to work on them, including. Because these measures are being increasingly directed into a hospital where patients are repeatedly dismissed, where this specialized high - tech hospital needs emergency measures to be performed. 300 patients were sent home waiting for such action. Here you can see an example where you could ask for a private driver and work much better on the waiting lists than you are doing. It is disappointing to see the Independence Party become alienated from its own personal enterprise in the medical sector. That's not what you had. [[The president calls.]] I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u76	V.E.G. President. This adjustment is an attempt to delay to the hospital V and start shrinking. The trend over the past few years has been that the list of waitings is increasing and has now reached more than 700 people. The adjustment proposal we make in the Middle Ages is here making a total of 50 million, and it's very expensive. Hv. Therefore, members of the Parliament should have the right to accept it by supporting the green button. It is a prevention of children and addicts and alcoholics to see sick family members being treated and to turn their lives around, themselves, their family, and their society all for the better and the better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u77	Mr. President. Of course, Icelanders have a very good average but only average, and there are simply too many people in this country who have that shit, and really shit. This is certainly an expensive suggestion, but we face a fundamental question: Do we want to ensure a minimum wage or are we going to have a minimum wage, for example? to judge children who are born disabled and who look forward to never being in a labor market for poverty for the rest of their life? I don't think we can agree with that. It is inhumane, in which there is no justice, and in the end it will be much more expensive for society not to do so. I'm begging you, we'll go in together to find some money to make sure that no one gets under the minimum wage in the country. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u78	Mr. President. Since then, the company has been talking for improved microorganism. The middle class has two different forms for the bill, which are involved in support of micro-organism and an increase in the average free income market. There is a good mind behind this proposal, but unfortunately, we do not see the practicality of funding, and in fact, it has not been presented to the level of a student, so we do not vote with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u79	Madam President. The best investment a community can make is investing in people. The only way to keep investing in people is to make money because it returns in a large way. We are investing in the future of people, the future of children and the future of society. Of course, this will cost money, but if we really consider the cost of poverty, we would see that it is an investment that is making a lot of money back. But we haven't been doing these tests. We do not know how much poverty costs us and money that will not deal with the elimination of poverty in this small country lacks perspective and lack the ability to deal with the problems of the future society and society today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u80	Mr. President. Since collapse, poorer and senior citizens have been left behind. They have been left behind because the law says that they should follow evolution in the community, but each of the funds is said: "No, not this time. " Desperate and older citizens, in this case in the suggestion we are voting for now, are in our debt a great deal. How much is this? Yeah, it's 13 billion. What does it cost the community, the tax collection of individuals, and the companies that go to deportations? Only in the tax industry goes 10 billion. Almost makes it easier for us to move to where they live, to live with dignity. We can limit what goes on in the tax industry, which means serious tax analysis. If such priorities were possible, instead of going to those who cheat on taxes and putting them in a tax shelter, would it be possible to bring them to those in the community who most need it? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u81	A respectable president. This motion is not an animal, it is self-selected. This means no one's going to have to live under the minimum wage in the country. The most amazing thing about this is that all groups have promised that they would cut off the chicken - livered jaws of microorganism and older citizens. They're setting the poor guys up. That's where you're giving your dress back, just clean and straight. That's what we're supposed to do, and it's been promised, all classes. This is the only group that has been left behind, the group that should least be, and it sucks to know that there is always a difference between us, at the expense of the worst, not of the most wealthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u82	Mr. President. It is certainly true that this group is left on one more trip and does not enjoy comparable development to that of other people in a public employment market or public employment market. It's a good suggestion, but unfortunately, this along with another harmony is a total of 38 billion who are not financed. The fact is, the government has broken up the savings and shook off the last cent, and this is not a basis for the proposal that is being made here, without attacking significant tax increases that we in resurrection cannot support. Therefore, while the proposal is a good price, we are embarrassed by it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u83	Mr. President. Here is a landmark motion that turns toward not leaving an elderly Icelanders behind the minimum. It's a suggestion that's so self-centered in a country that's one of the richest countries in the world. This is a suggestion that can be well financed by a more reasonable and just tax policy. This is a suggestion that can be approved by a change in priorities, since we start with older ones and micropunchers rather than with bigmakers. This is an expensive proposal, however, that costs only one fourth of what great artisans have paid themselves to make money since 2010. This is a proposal that costs as much as one developer went out when he sold his share in a fishing business that builds his wealth on the use of the country's common resource. One man or 40,000 senior citizens?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u84	Mr. President. The media has always spoken to improved seniors and has offered the suggestions for them, including the following: in that professional income does not interfere with pension income income. Of course, we are to respect the older citizens and the generation we have much to thank for, but this proposal is sadly lacking, although it sounds fine, unsaid, and on such grounds we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u85	President. These are 25 billion suggested for older citizens. Just as with the microchip, they were left behind after a crash, i.e. Their interests, their income, were to grow in shape with what happened in the community, but they did not. The law said: "No, not this time, no, not this time. " We owe them a lot to get them back to where they were before a crash. 25 billion, put them in context. They told me at the Contestant Control that the cost of a lack of competition in Iceland is comparable to the top step of the valuable tax, 25% on top of prices. In terms of tax subsidies, what goes to the tax industry, it is 10 billion, 80 billion that I think in whole a year, at least one year ago, the cost of society. By improving the monitoring of tax fraud and competitiveness, there is room for much more successful society, and it should be prioritised for those who have been left behind, disability, and in this case of older citizens. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u86	A respectable president. We are referring to social groups that have been left to fall, promising that their reward would be corrected like everyone else. The rewards of all others, including those sitting in that hall, have been corrected. The answer to what is called the following is less than 30% of the person you are caring for: There is no way to pay the price. This is even said by those who have spoken about our not making material treasures because we have a national treasure called a government fund. We are talking about 110 billion in the future interest payments from our joint property called Landing. Is that not how we can prioritize our money? Can we not go ahead with a good example and show that we mean what we say and say when we praise these social groups because they will not be left innocent and holy forever? It is now that the Allied Council has the potential to fulfill the big words. It's almost like you're asking for a roll call, I'm just told it's too late, but if it should've ever had a roll call, it's now. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u87	A respectable president. We're talking about the older citizens of this country, the people that built this country. We're talking about people who are part of a large number of senior citizens who don't get the minimum in the country. A large group have that reward, but a large group do not. It sucks to know that we have to meet with these people. It comes to you and says, "Hey, I can't afford to see a doctor. I can't afford research. And how sad it is when a husband and wife come and say: " We cannot afford to take care of our medication! Why? Because there is the same time period of medication in both groups, the start of a new period of recovery. It sucks that we can't fix it. We have a large number of older citizens who cannot afford medical treatment or medication and that group is also under the minimum amount.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u88	Mr. President. Same story repeats itself. Another year, senators fall left of green, forwarding party, and the Independence Party fall into the pits of old-fashioned workouts, and all the suggestions offered by the government. All the suggestions are taken. Mr. President. Didn't arise to introduce new practices, and didn't stand for the authority of the General? Was it just the council classes down here in the old building? I would also like to review, Mr. President, that 47% of the nation did not choose these three categories as now the guardian class. This work today is incredibly demeaning to half of the population. Mr. President. That's the politics today. She's the same one as yesterday's political bitch, but hopefully it won't be a political bitch for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u89	A respectable president. I say no to these funding, because another year, a few people are sitting by. Another year, older citizens sit by. One more year, however, there is a gross difference between the worst and the worst. A further year is to increase the gap between microbubbles and underpayers. Another year is to make sure that these people are not corrected. One more year is to forget that everyone has promised to take the manipulator and correct it. An additional year is 65 bucks a year, yet they bite hard. I say no. They're bad money.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u90	A respectable president. The General Assembly has the budget. That is why it is unannounced when the government brings a budget that cannot be broken in enough way so that the council and its members know what all these billions are going, right, left. Therefore, I cannot participate in agreeing or paying this bill my vote or sitting by once. That's why I have to turn it down. I don't think public financial law is being carried out. I believe the government and counsellers are being given great authority over the budgets over which the Council is authorized by the Constitution. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u91	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you at the end of the story again for a financial committee and her chairman. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, for professional work. It's good money. I've noticed, too, the vote on the 2nd. And again today, when it is. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson came up here, that there was only one band that didn't agree to any of the government's proposals throughout the motions. It was the Conspiracy. [[The point is, it's not true.]] Not one. [[Up front.]] Another point I've noticed in the votes is that the government situation here goes more and less to refuse to use the government position to a far greater degree than to have a vote against the laws of the governments. It also tells me that the proposals of the government and the majority of the legal committees are wise and good, supporting the success of the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u92	A respectable president. It's just beginning to say thank you to the highest. A secretary of transportation for this situation here in a pita. These funding may be of prime interest, for the fact that here is the Independence Party, which has been controlled by the Ministry of finance, which we have never seen to be the same. Sadly, the opportunity to provide employment was not new, in order to supply the households with the necessary oxygen in these circumstances by reducing taxes. [[Up front.]] Instead, further plans were made to increase the booth. That is what we will stand for as the legacy of this government, the greatest expansion of the state of state that has ever occurred. That's too bad. I want to say something. paritaprevir Ágúst, son of Ólafur, the son of Ágústsson. It is also a sin to see the government's vow to change their practices here in the Hall of Congress by contributing all the suggestions of my contribution to these budgets.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u93	For the year 2020, the President would like to offer thanks for a great and good job and thanks to all members of the Parliament for the objective coverage of the budget bill. It's a pleasure to be seen in the 3rd. Last night, as per the council's work programme. Then let it be noted that the budget of the coming year has not previously been approved as early as the end of the month of November. In recent decades, there has been a 3rd. and the bill's closing bill was usually completed in mid December. For all those who have to act on that law, the provision of timely donations is greatly improved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u94	Mr. President. I come up with all my goodness to give to the highest. A minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson's chance to come up here and apologize for being wrong. He simply claimed that we did not vote for any government case, not that it was a reason to do so much, but we did it where we were supposed to do it. I've felt that the government was a rather skin-year around here, and I've complained and demanded that the members of Congress be the most important to me. If a minister got out of the parking lot and apologized for his words, he would do better. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u95	A respectable president. In view of what a respectable president said, that we are accepting budget early in the year, I want to believe that if the same thing happens when Christmas falls and happens repeatedly here, there will be a lack of time, there must be a lack of time, and be undisputed that it cannot be blamed for the government position. I think it's important to keep it in place because I notice that there's not a lot of senators coming out of the committees. This is likely because, as we say, the council has a pattern. But let's just remember every habit, let's remember what we want to fix, and remember that this council has been incredibly perplexing. The government situation has held back from using the same devices that have been practiced over the years. I want it to be moved to a book, but I'm glad that a respectable president made this statement. Then it's already in place, and it's automatic, and we can remind the administrative part of things later if the situation that I hope for comes up, and hope that all hope, that it will not come up.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u96	A respectable president. This may not exactly be about the President's conference board, but if I've fallen asleep in votes earlier, and the United States really supported one proposal from the government, I'm glad I did, and I apologize for saying something else. But to vote at 2nd. To me, it was remarkable that I did not, hoping that I would be right about that. But I'm perfectly willing to come up here and apologize. I have probably fallen asleep in these complicated comments when the government was carrying volleyball because her members could not support one another.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u97	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the law on the subject of the elderly, which is suggested to coordinate laws on the subject of the elderly with the changes made on the bodies of bodies of elders in the Community Services Act, No. 40/1191 with modification rules No. 37/2018. The reason for this bill is the change between the administrations of the Geronits Act on the Social Services Act, by law since 2018, that arrangements for consultation would be simplified and that the elderly would not serve together as service groups under the laws on the affairs of the elderly and then bodies of elders under local social services, but would accept the body of elders into the role of the service groups. With Change Tracks No. 37/2018 was converted to the body of elders by the service group, but no adjustment was made in the elderly's legal affairs in terms of regional division and the order of representatives in line with the changed regulations of local social services. Therefore, this bill is aimed at harmonizing laws on the subject of the elderly with laws on local social services, as necessary between these laws on regional division and the order of bodies of elders. It should be noted that this bill is working in full agreement with the older citizens' Union and the European Union. This point was received from an older citizen's national relationship, and there are no comments from stakeholders to this correction. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u98	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize the law on renting registered vehicles. The bill suggests that a U.S. Association Office is authorized to place the government's finest upon a driver's license owner, who has been advised to change the travel status of a vehicle registered in the DMV. In Iceland there are a record of 108 traffic rents. These statistics have no comparison compared to the population of other countries. Without motor vehicles, we would have had a real problem caring for the number of tourists here streaming from the beginning of the tourism industry. In the summer of 2015, the current lease laws went into effect by means of this constantly growing number of tourists. After a legal hearing, the number of tourists continued to increase, and between 2015 and 2016, the increase was almost 40%. Then, in 2018, the departure of tourists at Keflavík Airport was 2.3 million, i.e. 120,000 more than in 2017. This tremendous increase in foreign tourists has resulted in increased demand for rental cars and a large growth in motor vehicles. The growth even appears. The increase in the share of automobile vehicles from recently registered vehicles has been significant, but over the last eight years the share has been 40%. It should be noted that today there are nearly 25,000 registered rental cars. The use of vehicles is then more variable than previously. see in the increased supply of rental cars in the highest and lowest price groups as well as in the supply of other registered vehicles, such as four bikes and motors. As I entered this country, the current law was designed to meet the challenges of the growing international tourist population. The laws were taken into account by the changing management environment, strengthened the legal frames for driving drivers, and met developments in this article. In addition, the laws on rights and duty to landlords and landlords were sharpened. The law says that the Act is being followed by a law under law but since its implementation the Group's Office has never used the guidelines that the law allows. However, because of a fracture that consisted of moving down a mileage at least, the Grouping Room recently gave a warning on planned work permit 140 motor vehicles registered in the operating category of motorized vehicles. Following the warning of a boarding room, there were media coverages that probably did not go unnoticed by many. The deportation of a vehicle's vehicle position is known to be well - known. However, the extent to which a whole vehicle fleet is registered in the category of motor vehicles is less known. The European Union report on November 2017 provides statistical information that sheds light on the extent of the loss of vehicles in the EU Member States. The report estimates that in each Member State the number of vehicles used is the wrong mileage on a driver's license. The report also discusses the availability of devices used to change the vehicle's mileage and available for low sums of money in stores and easy to practice. All the reports are based on vehicle use, and there is no mention of problems with rentals in particular. A respectable president. As I mentioned, there are over 25,000 rental cars registered in the country and 108 car rents in the country. In view of this and the warning of a broken - down car - car - rent agency, it is urgent to take on this violation with a clear ban that established governmental fines, not only because the deportation of a mileage involves misleading business practices and gives the wrong appearance of vehicles, and not only because such fragments give the wrong perspective of licenses in order to produce financial profits, but also, in particular, since the very way that a car's owner or manager can easily prevent him from carrying on a routine safety device and needs repairs in time. This behavior, therefore, can easily affect driving safely, which is particularly serious, in view of the fact that renters often drive hundreds of miles a day in unattracted circumstances. In this context, it can be noted that according to a driver's opinion of a vehicle's car, the first legal central examination of the new vehicle will be performed four years after the new registration and every two years thereafter. It is therefore not unusual for rental cars to be driven thousands of miles without sight. It is also possible for modern technology to enable people to change their miles without much effort, tens and hundreds of vehicles. A respectable president. The aforementioned warning of the Association's Office was sent in line with Article 11. Current legislation states that the Office should write a written warning to theálder and give the appropriate time to reimburse the sector before the loss of the application will occur. This duty, Article 11. The law to give a warning and a postponement in advance of decomposition is in accordance with the view of the seriousness of canceling licenses, but the breakdown of the business of the people who are protected by the legal and economic rights of the Constitution. The objective of the bill is to prevent fragments that involve moving down a vehicle's mileage. The most minor way to that goal is to bring the violation under the jurisdictional principle 13 gr. The law. Government guilty is an efficient paradox and can be used without the preceding written warning to the permit holders to abandon the guilty practice. In the case of law, if the bill is passed, a Grouping Agency can use permission to substantiate a service permit following a government fine, the permit holder will inform the permit holder that the deportation of a mile is in place after a guilty fine has been committed. The bill does not require any changes in penalties or laws, and has been in good consultation with the Department of Transport and Transport. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-27-36.u99	A respectable president. Here's a bill to legalise the law on recognition of professional education and proper work in this country, No. 26/2010. Track No. 26/2010 were approved on March 31, 2010 and included the implementation of EU Directive No. 2005/36/EC of the recognition of professional education and appropriate, September 7, 2005. The directive lays the groundwork for the right professionals to move between countries to the European Economic Areas and take up jobs in the strength of the education they have acquired. At the same time, they can use the opportunity and rights of the Member States'commitments to accept professional education regardless of the procedure. People who have educated themselves for a particular job in this country, e.g. In the health sector, industry, or child - rearing and care sectors, other countries can visit and work on the basis of a study practiced in Iceland. The 2005/36 directive was amended with a new Directive No. 2013/55/ESB, included in the EEA Convention with the decision of the Joint EEA Committee No. 94/2017. The existing bill is aimed at enforcing the laws of this directive, which include a number of new instructions, and are the main ones: 1st EEA citizens can apply for European professional cards in order to engage in a job in other EEA countries, and this applies both when the applicant takes up a permanent residence in the inn or wishes to perform a short-term service. This is an electronic certificate that confirms the applicant's education and its right to a particular job in the home country. With professional diplomas, there is hope to speed up the treatment with recognition of professional education and to make the payment more efficient. 2. The organization of certain professions or professions may agree on common demands or common tests that test knowledge, skill and ability required for practice of certain activities. The organisation of the professions involved may suggest such qualifications for training to the European Commission, which establishes and publishes this by Regulation. 3. If there is access to a law-defenced job depends on its completion of the required work ethic school, Member States must acknowledge training acquired in another EEA country. This set ensures that students who prefer to take part of their training in another country based on educational work in the European Economic Area receive formal training as part of the study. Other factors could be mentioned here in the bill, such as on the exchange of information to immigrants regarding those jobs that have legal protection in this country and the opinions of the rights to law-suspecting professions. The bill presented here is a big step for Icelandic pros and professionals in law - protected jobs. The current legal adjustment will be a stream of simple and rapid payment on the recognition of employment rights, thus contributing to an increase in flexibility and opportunity. Education and appropriate education requirements, e.g. for major health groups, but there is much to it that these criteria are more consistent between countries. The bill has a relatively long approach, first in February 2016. A number of people gave reviews about this and came to work on its implementation and its subsequent regulations, taking into account matters that concern many departments, dozens of institutions and stakeholders in the labour market. They are all the best thanks for their interest and work on making the bill the best possible. A respectable president. I expect the case to be followed by this discussion referred to a second issue. ... andtowhat. General and Education Committee.
