ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-96.u1	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to legalize individual registrations. The bill includes an overall review of national and public registration laws, No. 54/1962. The main theme of the bill is what information should be recorded in this important file, national file, how it is recorded, and how it is transmitted. Before I have a review of the bill itself, I think it's right to draw attention to the fact that, first of all, we have a turning point at this bill's donation, because by extension, we are completing a review of three main law columns that have to do with the registration of individuals in one way or another. The reexamination began in 2010, but the first stage was reached by an approved bill for law and residence that I recommended at the 148th legislature and was adopted as a law on law and residence, No. 80/2018, last year. Laws on Laws and Penitentiaries Replace Laws on Law, No. 21/190, and correct Separator Notifications, No. 73/1952, on the other hand. Second, I'd like to point out the importance of the register, national records, here on the country. National records are the file on which our whole community is built. Whether we consider the tax returns of a state, a community, the improvement system, the financial institutions, or the commercial systems of the industry, the list plays a key role. Thus, it is extremely important that the file be carefully held, making sure that it is both correct and secure. A respectable president. I think it's time to swerve key elements of the bill. Chapter I of the bill explains the objective of the bill, set of values, commentaries, administration, personal protection, what information is recorded in the national file, etc. It suggests that the objective of the bill is a reliable record of individuals, that their registration is correct, so that it provides a sound basis for certain rights and responsibilities. It is then the goal of the bill to record information in a national file based on the best available data at any given time. It has been a few decades since the national registration was set up, but we must not forget that such a record may not be celebrated. Thus, as with Icelanders, for example, the British have no national record to form. This can ensure that a person will receive and retain certain rights, but the correct registration can also save the state's capital, such as by calculating the improvements. There's two things I'd like to mention before I go to II. section 5 of the bill, which is the protection principle 5. The bill and 6. who state registration information in a national file. As the people around the world know, new laws on personal protection and the implementation of personal information were adopted at the General Assembly last summer. In effect, certain awakenings have followed, and governments have sought to establish legislation in order to meet the new protection laws of the Persons. Then, many institutions have engaged in internal analysis of how to handle personal information. Iceland's national records are no exception to this. In the 5th. For example, the bill accounts of Iceland's National Publications Index for the processing of personal information proposed by the registry, by itself or by third parties, such as other public institutions or property owner. That's 6. Determine the details allowed to record. The law does not contain a complete list but contains key information. It is thus assumed that a minister will be allowed by the regulations to determine that any other information needed to collect and keep, such as the addresses of individuals, should be recorded. Il. The chapter of the bill discusses the registry of individuals. It says it's Iceland's National Registry that takes care of the individual's registration into a national registry and takes care of publishing a social security number. It should be noted that there is no prior legal identification of the social security number in the way this is done. Thus a law has been lacking on who gives individuals social security numbers, but it is suggested that there will be a further set of laws on this subject. This will be in the section on system IDs, i.e. The social security figures published for the public because of individuals who do not have to meet, or do not fulfill, the terms of a national registration. It is noted that if the bill remains unchanged in the law, only public members will be able to interact with the formation of a system ID, such as in other countries, but not with private people, such as banks. It is also good to note that the system ID file today has some 75,000 social security numbers. In III. section of the bill is a provision for the distribution of national files and the publication of a certificate. It is assumed in the bill that the distribution of the registry will be granted. This allows companies to share the registry, such as they have been, but also the Iceland National Constitution will be able to impart it. There are laws on the provision of personal protection and the processing of personal information. It is expected in the future, when an updated national registration system sees the day, that the total delivery of national files will be prohibited. Instead, updating will be done so that data from the central file will be downloaded using a web call to the file. In this way all updates, such as expected in a new personal protection law, will be able to ask individuals for information on who turned them into a national file. Today, the Constitution is delivered in its entirety, and then it depends on the way the person's contract deals with Iceland's National Publications Index is conducted on how often the registry is updated. Thus, some companies have purchased a complete national file a few years ago but have not bought any updates on the registry. In the present system, which has entered its years and does not measure up to today's standards, national dating is not attributable. The introduction of the updated system is then expected to prevent any information about the name and/or home, or the location of the individual and the immediate family from being given nationally. The 14th chapter. the bill that says it is closely linked to a law on a so-called '-developed home,' in the law on law and residence, but the implementation of the law was postponed for technical reasons, in other words, because the old registration system is not capable of doing so. The same is true with regard to Article 14. This bill and other requirements subject to an updated national registration system - execution is delayed until a new national registration system is used. IV. The last chapter of the bill then contains various regulations, such as those of local population, how to evaluate foreign documents, income and so forth. A respectable president. I believe it is only a matter of reimbursement in general by the National Congress of Iceland and the financing of the Agency. I will share my opinion with you here that access to the basic records of the kingdom, including national records, should be free of charge, i.e. No charge. I believe that making this information free of charge would have a positive effect on society, innovation, and employment. It would mean, however, that the Agency would have to be funded solely from a government fund. This is the way it is expected today that Iceland's National Publications Index will cost less than 1.9 billion. Some 920 million are expected. K. Straight from state funds. Restin, another 930 million, is selling information. So there is less than 1 billion that need to be bridged if all the information that Iceland's National Book collects freely into the current position. So I suggest, a respectable president, and, in fact, in a paper with the bill, that a working group will be appointed to be identified as a community benefit by making access to information from a national file and other foundation files of the Agency condition condition free of charge and detect potential costs for the state funds. I think it's right to give this working group a lot of room to do this well. A respectable president. I have now explained the subject of the bill in general and suggested that the bill, following this discussion, be referred to. General and Education Committee and 2nd over.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-96.u2	A respectable president. I hope to the highest. Ministers won't hold it against me if I mention that here we're going to replace a law that's pretty old - and gone even - in view of their approval here at Congress on April 27, 1962, when the Minister was seven days old, if my memory is correct. I think we must agree that at that time, much has changed about how we acquire information, what information the government needs to hold on to and how we share it. Especially in the last few years, in which an information revolution has taken place. I'd like to ask myself, " What points are listed in Article 6? ' Regarding registration information, where we are speaking mostly of subjects' qualities, their names, where they were born, and when. But then there's a 1 5th non-individual figure, but now it's a little long out in the bill's text that's about every fee for registered religions and institutions of life. This is because it is not a matter, as the minister mentioned, that the State usually keeps a national record. But the fact that the state has a record of people's beliefs and beliefs is quite different. That's why this one is gone, I want to mean, a mountain back way to maintain the system we have around the funding of religious and biological organizations. I'd like to ask the minister if the cold wording of the 15th is a sign that the parish system needs to be revised and whether the registration of the national record of people's beliefs and principles is eliminated. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-96.u3	The president asks why. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-96.u4	A respectable president. I respect it for what it's about. A senator to recall that the law has become as old as the minister, and many have changed since then, especially the minister, since he was seven days old. Of course, for the query, this is the case in Article 6. is being opened up to the fact that a minister can legally record other information - and so are several committees. So you can wonder, just like what you're doing. A senator mentioned, whether or not the 15th issue of religious registration or of an opinion partner should be there. We simply do not see all the things that are possible, in the sense of the present time, are necessary to record - to do so. to keep our economics and information and statistics and things we've been calling for. That's why this warrant is incarcerated. For example, this article discusses, e.g. To record the location of marriage, one of the examples of the law. It is not registered today, but there are information on the location of weddings in so - called reconnaissance proofs used by the Habitat for economic development. Of course, with regard to religion, it is also the arrangement for us to pay certain money to religion today. To do so properly, this way has been used. I don't think that there's some kind of mountain back route going, but maybe I'd much rather say that even if we have a complete review of this, it would be a completely independent decision to change the currency.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-96.u5	A respectable president. I'd like to continue with the religious and biological organizations only. The bill's report speaks of religious registration in everyday speech, and this revised expression is more likely to reflect the praxize that has been used. I was wondering if the Ministry examined the relevant laws because, for example, if you look at them. Section 3. The application fee is referred to as a person registered in the National Church or registered in a religious or biological society. It's those two groups, it's the budget registration. The same is true of written religious and biological laws. It says in 9th. ... withauthority of the President's permission: To that extent of reporting to national records of infiltrates and religious disclosures. Here, there's a certain discrepancy in the law that I'd like to avoid reflecting the difficulty that we're going to have in, the public, by keeping this file. That's why I want to wonder if this system doesn't need to be re-phrased. It is now, for example. a large part of the public lends a index that actually just builds an opinion on the value of public development. Couldn't there be any similar system on how religious and biological organizations get money from public funds? Would there be anything worse in the evidence from an indistinguishable poll on the location of people in religious and biological institutions than the list of each rate for registered religions or partners, as it is called on in the bill? However, it is not to be said by any means that each membership will be due, for the state cannot collect it for its own companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-96.u6	A respectable president. I can answer my questions and the Ministry. We're primarily talking about national legislation. As a result, religion or parishion is not subject to the Ministry, and we have not been considering any change in other laws or such procedures. This is mainly a question as to how this overall review can correspond to existing laws from other laws, that a national file can fulfill and take into account a new protection law so that it all works together. We can answer that. So there is another discussion, and the question of whether this will need to be taken up on the committee. I guess, out of interest. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's subject is that he will keep it open to the committee. I'm sure it's done. This is mainly a review of Iceland's National Registry on the registration of individuals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-96.u7	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. I'd just like to step aside the funding of the changes that lie ahead of us at the sentence of these new songs, I think it's safe to say. Many aspects of the registry now show that change is very important. To develop is the system on which the Constitution rests on the old, and it's quite woody to make changes. There are some things in our society that are changing that require the Constitution to be technically flexible. These include discussions in connection with possible changes in human names laws, changes in registration of gender, ideas of double law home, or a change in residence. All of this needs to be available to log and convert into the Constitution. If I read correctly in a financial program, donations in an investment are expected to be between 70 and 80 million each year in this category. The report on the bill contains considerably higher amounts of money as the Iceland National Publications Index itself assumes the need for projects. If corpses do, I'd think they'd be rather underestimated than the other. [[The president calls.]] That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Does he have conviction that change will be possible?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-96.u8	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. You're right next door. A senator that has not yet been financed the ultimate changes for a new national registration system. I think we have at least two other issues for the council today, at least. Three or four, based on our being able to adopt a new national file system. Sadly, we have not yet found a financial program to complete this project. It is an up-to-date budget that will appear in a report with this bill that we believe is necessary. If I recall correctly, there was also the mention of a certain amount of money in other prime places that depend on the fulfillment of a new national registration system. So I think we need a few ministers and a few departments to ask one thing about completing the funding, because there are so many things that stand in front of us that this can become a reality. As I mentioned in the past, some of the rules we agreed on last year in the law on law and not to be made until a new nation's accounting system is realized. I had confidence in the support of the council in due course.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-96.u9	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for clear answers. I cannot help but agree with him that it is natural that funding will be guaranteed for this. It's like the highest. The minister mentioned is a number of important matters that hang on that spit. It is shocking that many good cases need to be delayed or that laws need to be set and suspended, however, in the future because the system is unable to cope with the proposed changes. Of course, you can also ask yourself, " Is it good to be putting forth bills that are inevitable and that really point out the problem? ' Would it not have been more reasonable to discuss securing this budget and then offer a bill in connection with it? This certainly works in a somewhat peculiar order of the parts, being together with a financial agenda for the next year, and then the bills that anticipate specific expenses, and the documents do not fit in at all. I think it's at least not to imitate and to give the highest order. A minister to speak with his fellow minister and then to get the help of the council to gain this wealth. I also encourage him to carry it on a government board and try to improve it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-96.u10	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator's importance is that we complete this assignment. I think we're all focused on that. There are, however, some important issues that we are coming in here. But I don't agree with what. A senator in the knowledge that it would have been better to wait until we had financed it. We're doing a full reexamination of the law and better that it all shows up in that whole reexamination. In the same way in other laws, which are partly linked to the establishment of a new national registration system, a registration system, and rather to use it as pressure to establish priorities in order to get the money to get it into the past, rather than to be picking it up in the future, some one, two changes in the law. I think it's a better thing to do. I know that the General and Education Committee will take this assignment to heart. It is true that the budget board is also informed that it is important to look to this on both financial and financial arrangements for the next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-96.u11	A respectable president. It's not that I may be extending the discussion much, but I still think it's a reason to come up with this matter. I am glad that it has come out primarily because I trust it will take on a particular point that I have repeatedly pointed at here in the platform and discussed in interviews, that is what I think is called a veneer of individuals. I'm particularly referring to parental obligations and that parents who exercise custody of their children are not clearly registered in a national file - or that the Agency has at least not been able to share that information with other public institutions. I'd like to refer to questions I asked a health minister and answers to them about Iceland's Medical Insurance. It's on the roof. 819, case No. 455, where I asked a minister on the basis of what information health insurance is being used, and of course they used a national file, and what the rules of operation were when letters about children are sent out. Then I asked, "Are they addressed to both guardians and others? Or are they in relation to a child's home? ' By permission of the President, this is the answer: In accordance with information provided by Iceland's Medical Insurance, letters are generally addressed to the person who controls the child's family number, the oldest member of a family according to national registration. Thus, if a child's guardian is older than the parent living with a child, he may be an unscrupulous mate. However, Iceland's Medical Insurance notes that in some of its systems it is possible that a manual could be passed on specifically by the specified superintendents. I also asked if a minister thought this was compatible with personal protection law, i.e. When it comes to health insurance making letters that involve children's affairs in matters other than their guardians. The best thing to do is to say that the Minister agrees in his failure to meet the Homological Protection Act, in fact, in violation of personal protection, is that this treatment is not in order and the Ministry reiterates the comments on Iceland's Health Insurance. I'd like to stress that this has to change. When you start digging in it, you realize it's a whole page on Iceland's National Book that explains it with a family number. It is an old system that was invented in 1986, and it was not thought of being able to trace the subject of child custody. I have an understanding of that. When you read through the Web site, you see common questions that a national file gets: Why aren't I registered as my child's parent in a national file? Why do you see government agencies, e.g. banks, not that I have my child's custody? Why does a stepparent get a target letter and a report about my child, not me, who is a parent, and who makes the baby look ahead? Of course, the fact that Iceland's National Registry has to have these questions and answers inside the home page says a lot. It tells us that we are not practicing what the law commands us to do. According to children's laws and parental obligations, parents who exercise custody are obliged to give their children a certain amount of service, and they have certain responsibilities. When this is done in this way today, it simply does not give parents the opportunity to fulfill their parental obligations. I believe this will make up for the very first. I was interested in seeing it here in a bill with the bill that the General concluded to hide the government to ensure that in Iceland's public registrations the necessary information on social security would be recorded to the level of other parents as soon as possible and no later than January 1, 2016. I reiterate that, in my case, I'm not talking about marriage parents, although I think it's important, I'm talking about parents. I'm talking about parents who exercise custody of their children, that their children are registered under their names in a national record. I must admit that I do not fully understand how our system has not been able to follow this course of social change and the laws we have already set in children's law and in so many laws, that it is so overwhelmingly difficult to record it in this way, which is, in fact, by my information, made to some extent, but they have not trusted to share it with other public institutions. It will be out, as noted, e.g. In my answer to health insurance, that these laws are just not being strictly adhered to. The same is true of many other problems that parents face in this situation. It belongs, for example. We have insurance companies, banks, and other places. I sincerely hope that this bill is designed to correct this situation. Then we will discuss the costs that were only taken in return. Of course, it is necessary to finance the necessary changes that may have to be made to the national network. We've heard it in a number of discussions that the national network is over and that it needs to be corrected. Then I'd also like to see the highest power. Minister of reviewing this cost. Is it necessary for them to act, this work, to take place within the Agency? Or is this a expense service? Are we sure to take the best and most practical way of doing this? But like I say again and again, it has to be changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-96.u12	A respectable president. This synoptic proposal consults Generalis's authority to validate a contract to prevent uncontrolled ocean fishing in the central part of the Arctic Ocean. The treaty was signed on October 3, 2018, in Greenland. With the contract, coastal countries at the North Sea include Japan, China, South Korea and the EU, which is, of course, not a state but an alliance, not to start commercial fishing on the part of the Arctic Ocean that is considered to be an ocean. Of course, the background of this case is well - known. The North Sea has been largely covered with ice all year round and no fishing has been practiced in the ocean outside the jurisdiction of coastal countries in the middle of the Arctic Ocean. However, because climate change is changing rapidly in the north, it cannot be excluded that in the near future there may be a possibility of pursuing commercial fishing. Then it is important to make sure that by then such fishing will be done only on the basis of a fishing regime based on scientific assessment of the fishing tolerance of the local fish stocks and the impact of such fishing on delicate ecosystems in these regions. This contract creates a prerequisite for the first action by commitment to the nine countries and the EU, who have signed the contract, in order not to start commercial fishing on the ocean in the middle of the North Sea until there is an arrangement for managing such fishing. Second, by creating a framework and setting for the cooperation of these countries to monitor the development of events in this region, exchange scientific information, and making decisions on how the arrangements for the future will be handled in a responsible way and on the basis of the precautionary approach. This contract is important for Icelandic interests because it contributes to ensuring that decisions about the protection and sustainable use of this marine environment will be responsible, but as well as the agreement guarantees future interest in Iceland by having Iceland sit at the table when decisions about the protection and use of this region will be taken in the future. Finally, a respectable president, I want to say that one of the smells of this case is the legal standing of the seas around Svalbard. Norway has declared over 200 miles of fish protection laws around Svalbard. This has not been supported in the 1920 Svalbard Convention and has been objected to, including, in the 1920's. of Iceland. This contract does not in itself alter the legal status of this sea area, but since this is a region of the North Sea where the State Department of State feels that it will be properly followed by a declaration that Iceland's views on the rights of the marine seas around Svalbard. A respectable president. I have now explained the key elements of the Convention's Conclusion and suggest that it be followed by this discussion referred to at the highest level. Foreign Directoring Committee and subsequent discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-96.u13	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for these words and for an explanation of this synopsis which is of utmost importance, that this agreement will be validated by it. I'd like to draw attention to the background on this, in a way. We know, of course, that five northern coastal states began with special consultations, such as. This fishing thing, or we'll say about the Northern Ocean matter, in Illusate, Greenland 2008. It even turned. how to control the Arctic seas. And so are the fishing and research activities of the oceans and other things. Iceland protested it. In fact, the protests and other discussions that led to the initiative of the U.S. government to offer a meeting on the Arctic fishing and research team in the North Sea as early as 2015. Then it went pretty well to work on this contract, which is to prevent a uncontrolled ocean fishing in the middle of the Arctic Ocean. It was finished with 2018. It is of utmost importance that the nations here pass a certain test in the important cooperation that needs to be here in the north. Whether it's politicians or anyone else, it's my hope that more treaties than this one can see today. We have, for example. search and rescue alone. There may be agreements to stop using heavy oil or black oil in the north, preventing waste pollution, which speeds up the melting of ice and snow. There are many other sources of pollution. There are also difficult issues that, of course, need to be agreed on as well, such as the management of this sea area beyond the five coastal legal history of the five miles [200 km] that forms around the Arctic area itself, or the North Pole itself. You might also mention the processing of gas and oil or other resources in these areas. It's a delicate matter that's a little far off in the country to reach an agreement. And now I will not speak of the building of warriors and such in these parts. Anyway. This agreement and others provide a basis for hope that these nations will be united to ensure both peaceful relations and to the highest standard of living for the four million people living in this vast region. So all I want to do is take this opportunity to celebrate this council resolution and to suggest that there will be great loneliness in the council in giving her a success.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-96.u14	A respectable president. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. paritaprevir Ari Guðmundsson for his speech. I can agree with everything that came out there. For obvious reasons, the use of this region, as well as its traffic and scope, remains as it has been until now, i.e. Peaceful and free of tension. In order for that to happen, we need to keep our minds fixed on matters. A senator referred to him. Hv. A senator named here the search and saving, the pollution, the processing, natural resources, or other things. Hv. A senator also mentioned gas and oil, but he could also mention valuable metals there. We will do what we can to contribute to the scales, whether in the Arctic Council or elsewhere, and highlight that there will be international law and will be guaranteed to nations both in the Arctic and in other countries that will have traffic and traffic in this area, that everything will be done according to international and international treaties. It's primarily under the world's interests and certainly our Icelanders too. Our goals and plans must be self-sustained, and I'm glad to hear each other's inputs. A senator as far as it goes, I know we agree completely on that, and I agree with you. A senator calling upon the council's solidarity in this regard. It is not only sustainable but also economic and social sustainability. Of course, we must always bear in mind that some four million people live around the Arctic. Individuals living there will have to come to the decisions made and will enjoy opportunities like those of the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-96.u15	A respectable president. It is noteworthy that a dignified president reads clearly and carefully all presentations, setting a fine example. I recommend here for the bill to correct the freezing of funds and registration of parties on the list of forced actions in connection with the mobilization of terrorism and the spreading of mass destruction weapons on deck. One, one, three, three. The lead of the bill is attributed to a report by the International Action Board, FAAF, of April 2018, including the United States. it shows that improvements to the current legislation on the implementation of the precautionary measures derived from the United Nations Security Council and other international organisations and regarding cryo-conservation of funds and registration of the list of forced measures are necessary. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the administrative authority under the President's decision to handle matters related to the implementation of international compression procedures on the basis of law No. 93/2008. The bill is among the reasons for the Management Board's Action Programme on Money Surgeon since August 2018 decides to respond to comments in the FAFF report and ensure that Iceland does not land on FAFF's high - risk list. In the bill of things here for the 1st. ... responds to local statements from FAFF and aims to ensure that regulations and implementation of funds and economic wealth, as well as registration and registration of members of the list of compression measures, meet Iceland's international commitments to FAFF and the United Nations. The subject of the bill is a key twofold policy, and in terms of cryo-conservation of funds and, on the other hand, the list of parties in relation to forced operations. The bill is divided into six chapters. Chapter I contains goals, fields, and expressions. The objective of the bill is to block the funding of terrorism and the spread and funding of mass destruction weapons by measuring the freezing of funds in accordance with certain measures determined by the United Nations Security Council. The procedure of cryo-conservation and economic wealth in II is discussed. section. The chapter outlines how to perform the freezing of funds and economic wealth, but it is suggested that the obligation to freeze is in accordance with the regulations set out in accordance with the implementation of an international compression procedure. By freezing, it is intended to prevent any kind of capital transport, such as handing over funds, withdrawals, transfers, registrations, and other transactions, and to prevent people from obtaining money or using it in other ways. Frustration in the sense of the bill includes capital and economic wealth, which, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, belong to, be owned, possess or under the control of a member registered to the list of forced measures. Il. This section also requires authorization to be given from cryo-conservation under certain circumstances and to fill specific conditions, such as due to funds necessary to meet the individual's basic needs and to ensure a contract binding that was established prior to the cryo-conservation requirement. The section also contains measures that tell you when and how to freeze, including if it is confirmed that funds have been frozen by the wrong person. Finally it is recommended that announcemental measures be taken in order to determine whether or not their clients are on the list of compression measures. In III. section of the bill discusses how to appoint and unregistered of the list of compression actions. This section is largely a novelty based on FAFF comments. This section contains clear rules for how to specify, what information and data should be provided, and how to report a list of them. The secretary is assigned to inform the Icelandic citizens of the registry of the list of forced operations. There is also a review of the decision-to-treat review of the registration of the list of compression measures and how to unregistered. If anyone does not wish to have a decision to register a list of forced action measures, he can appeal a case to her invalidation in court. In view of the interests at stake, such matters should be prompt treatment. IV. This section discusses monitoring and cooperation in which UNECE and the head of state are assigned to monitor the reporting criteria in accordance with their monitoring obligations under the regulations for the control of the budget and the funding of terrorism, No. 140/2018. In addition, it's in IV. in this section the coordination and cooperation of the government for projects that depend on the subject of the bill, and it is recommended that such cooperation be carried out on the scene of a operating group set out in accordance with the laws on the use of money and the funding of terrorism. Chapter V discusses terms and penalties. It is the same way as the law on action against terrorist spending and funding and is mainly based on the woodwork in the form of government fines. There's finally Vi. Sections to various regulations, such as regulations and requirements for enforcing. The objective of the bill is, as previously noted, to respond to comments made by the FAFF on Iceland's defenses against terrorism and the funding of terrorism and to work at the State Department in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, the Federal Affairs, the State overemphasis, the State Police Department, as well as a group of Justices on action against money theft has been informed on the implementation of the case. In addition to the above-mentioned members, representatives of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Employment and Development, Iceland's Secret Bank, the office of the Chief of Police in the capital, the office of financial analysis by police, the tax investigator, the toll manager, and others. The bill is part of the management team's management plan for money corruption from August 2018 to respond to comments in the FAFF report and ensure that Iceland does not land on FAFF's high-risk list. The FAFF's list of high - risk countries asks that trade be made to a member of that organisation be subject to increased dependability. Substantial demands on the type of financial activity, the establishment of branch offices, a daughter's office, and even the agency are given warnings that dealings with the parties of these countries could involve the threat of money theft or terrorism. Some foreign and financial institutions have preferred to break up business relations with countries that have gone to the list of FAFFs, including the intermediate exchange, instead of implementing an increased dependencies survey, in English ◯de-registing-regiss. Thus, failure to respond to FAFF recommendations quickly and safely can have a major negative impact on the entire financial system and international credibility. It is important that the bill be treated by the Parliament at this spring meeting in order to include this in the progress report provided to FAFF in Junek. to prepare Iceland's premium at the main FAFF meeting next fall, which will evaluate whether Iceland's operations are sufficient to prevent registration of the list of FAFFs. A respectable president. I have now explained the key elements of the bill and suggested that it be followed by this discussion referred to at the highest level. Foreign Affairs and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-96.u16	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for his story. In general, this bill is a good one. It is important that we have the authority to take property that is to be used for the funding of terrorism and the like. Of course, it is positive that the bill such as this is based on opinion, or assessment, of the international financial action group in Iceland, by permission of the President, is the European Commission, as presented here. There are especially two things I want to stay on the bill. In Comb 4. There is a obligation to freeze funds and economic wealth. I understand that this is presented on the basis of the international financial group, but I don't think the report is clear at all. It is now that laws and reports with law must be clear. I'd like to give you an example. The report on 4. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: The second part of the paragraph is in line with 6.5 (c) that the state should forbid its citizens, or any other persons or lawyers within their jurisdiction, to make money or other possessions, economic wealth or financial or financial services, or other related services, direct or indirect, direct or partial, in any way, in favour of no subject or law, unless allowed by the competent authority, directly or indirectly, the nominated persons or lawyers; and individuals or parties in response to, or in any other manner, to the individual or law, to the local authority, unless allowed by the competent authority, approved or other means, according to the appropriate national security recommendations. It would be interesting to hear it from the highest level. Minister to see if he thinks it's clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-96.u17	A respectable president. I was a little worried about what. Because I thought he was losing his breath reading that sentence. But, well, clearly and not clearly? It's the idea of trying to cover everything that needs to be covered. If a person can explain this better, why not? It's just the best thing to do. But in this complex environment, it's like cot. A senator pointed to, being willing to follow FAFF's comments. Then it is important to try to do so in a way that is satisfactory. I'll totally accept that, Mr. Honorable President. A senator is referring to the fact that the text that this is, at least, not the thickest. I think we can agree on that, me and the other. Senator. All comments in this regard are well - known subjects. I'm sure that's what I'm doing. The committee will consider this matter as a matter of course. A senator referred to this, and I agree with him that it's important for reasons I specifically traced here. But I think we're taking the case for many reasons. One reason is that if anything is possible to change and improve, it is only normal and normal. But that's not the thickest sentence I've ever heard. I'll totally accept that, Your Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-96.u18	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I'm glad he feels the same way, that it is important for the committee to review this and perhaps try to simplify this presentation. I'd like to ask the highest question. Minister on 8. ... but it says that an investigation can begin without suspicion of punishment. Thus, it can be said that this is a lower ground, as it were, the standard for police to start an investigation. It's always a concern if you're going to lower your standards for research and give an exception to the criminal treatment laws, we're well aware of that. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of what rules should be strictly adhered to in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-96.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Eight. The bill is suggested to start a test, like what happened. In accordance with legal requirements for the treatment of members of the community, there is a legitimate basis or legitimate reason to believe that it meets the requirements for registration of forced action. The objective of the study is to obtain all the necessary data, including to evaluate whether there is any reason to appoint the individual in the list of forced procedures in accordance with III. the section of the law, i.e. evaluating whether they are linked to terrorist organizations or activities in a way that requires freezing of the individual's economic wealth. It is not so far as to recommend premeditated research clearances in the bill, but it is important that the person does not know the possibility that he could end up with a list of pressure measures to avoid giving room to react and to create property or anything else before being registered. In the April 2018 report, FATF, the Gurater is scheduled to respond to a recommendation of 6.3. It stated that there is a need to provide information on the parties as legitimate reasons to meet the requirements of a list of compression measures and that such investigation can be carried out without announcement of the parties to which it aims. There, a respectable president, is again being discussed, in short, that this recent report is being submitted. In that way, the bill is, in effect, - that is, the short description of the bill, and e.g. of what it is. A senator referred to earlier and read up, the long sentence. She's, for example. Just a word - for - word translation of a statement there. I don't have to trace it, I went over it in my story talk, what the result is, why we're involved in this partnership, and what the consequences could be if we didn't.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-96.u20	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. I think most of us agree fully on the goals referred to here to prevent terrorist funding and the spread of mass destruction. But I have to say, as mentioned in the answers, this bill is a little hard to read through. I'd like to know if it's the highest. A minister can only shed light on and help me understand what is discussed in 9th. Article 24 of the Council of Safety for the United Nations. The C-party reports on the methods and resources used in the funding of terrorism or the spread and funding of mass destruction weapons. Later in Article 9. return the letters labelled a, b and c, etc. and there it is on page 5. 5, speaking of severest, again dealing with the spread and funding of weapons of mass destruction. I can't think of anything about it in the 9th paragraph. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he can shed some light on it. What are we talking about here? Are we talking about funding weapons of mass destruction in general, which is a very important objective, or is this in some sort of narrower context, that is, then, about how weapons of mass destruction do not come into the hands of certain groups? It's also a very important thing, but it still matters in the overall context of things what's actually being discussed here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-96.u21	A respectable president. I think it's hard to argue that the bill is over, like, what? paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra the Year's Árnadóttir refers to, a tiny tortle. Of course, as mentioned here, the bill that this is based on a statement in a international report may not be the case with any entertainment reading on the subject. It's not like it's fun in this end. It's a serious matter. What I wanted to say is that in the minds of most people when we think of weapons of mass destruction, we can see for ourselves, for example. It's a nuclear bomb or something. But there's only so much more on the list of mass destruction weapons. So, let's take one recent example, it's the gas that was used in Salisbury, U.S.A., when it was attempted to kill the Skripal Fathers, in the list of mass destruction weapons. Without being an expert on that list, I know there's much more to it than the first thing that comes to mind. If this explains what this is all about, I hope so. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator was referring to the first thing that comes to mind when weapons of mass destruction are called massive weapons. But there is something else, as in this case, that gas used to kill father and father is on the list of weapons of mass destruction.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-96.u22	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I wholeheartedly agree that, of course, there are weapons of mass destruction and, fortunately, many of them have simply been banned by international treaties. However, not all weapons of mass destruction are prohibited, including nuclear weapons. There is always a risk, in my opinion, that in such matters as these, which are in their nature good and important, there is a measure of concern around the core of the matter, which is that some of this world's countries have weapons of mass destruction, which are still considered legal. The wording here is used to escape that fact. I realize this is not the case that can be used to ban nuclear weapons. But I still find it very important that when we discuss such issues as this bill in order, we realize that there is only a small part of the story being said. It's only a small part of the problem. In my mind, it is part about a little bit of the political white - eyed society of the United Nations that has these powerful weapons of mass destruction. To say that, of course, I rejoice over all the steps they take in order to establish a chain of mass destruction and that they cannot be in anyone's hands. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-96.u23	A respectable president. Now I'm and what. A senator may agree with the fact that we are not in the same class, which may surprise him, but in this matter I do not completely agree with each other. Senator. We agree that this is an important and good thing, but in times of need. A senator says it's a political whitewash. I don't feel like he's painting things exactly in the right color, simply because the world is the way he is, but not the way we want it to be. Hv. A senator referred to weapons that may be the first thing that comes to mind when we think of weapons of mass destruction, i.e. A nuclear weapon. Fortunately, a mutual disarmament, e.g. The number has been reduced by 90%, at least for NATO. But then, in this case under the United Nations hat, nations are trying to stop spreading. It is naturally done by preventing financing. mass destruction weapons, but other weapons too, and terrorist activity. I don't think it's right to link this case in a way that's appropriate. A senator does. If we were to hire them, I think that everyone, at least in this room and in Iceland, would want us to have no weapons of mass destruction, and not have any weapons, if not used in ways that could be used against people. But that is not the case. That's not the way the world is. In this case, these weapons are being handled specifically, and I think that's very important because there are weapons that may not even go too far, which may cause enormous damage and are defined as weapons of mass destruction. We're on it, and I know why. A senator agrees with me that this is very important. With regard to the other show, we've talked about it sometimes from this chair and we'll definitely do it again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-96.u24	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the union laws and labour issues. With the bill, the change is made so that union unions and employment disputes no longer exist as the seat of Socialism in the country's capital. Since 1998 there has been a seat in the Court's House of Justice in London, New York City, where the province of Reykjavík is located, but in the issue of the Courtship of the County Court of Reykjavík, which arrived at the Ministry during the days, it was requested that the Ministry would find a different location for Social Affairs no later than on July 1, 2018. The search for a new facility for the court and the bill is to ensure that the seat of Socialism can be elsewhere than in the country's capital, found a more suitable home for the court outside of Reykjavík. However, saying that I would like to stress that there is no room for socialization to outsmart the local capital, even though I must admit that personally it would be exciting for me to be able to expand public jobs in the country, but this is not relevant to it. If the bill remains unchanged in the law, the effect is expected to be negligible on the budget of the state, whether it is a dominant impact or an impact on the balance of the economy. Socialization is already in a rented home and is expected to remain in the immediate future, even though the seat of the Court may be located elsewhere in the capital area rather than in Reykjavík. A respectable president. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-96.u25	A respectable president. The Ministry of Social Affairs is responsible for child protection policies and the Ministers shall submit to the General Action Programme for four years at the end of the district election, as per Article 5. child protection. I am now recommending a proposal for interpretation of the Children's Child Protection Programme, but the program presented here includes the period from its implementation in 2019 to the district election in 2022. Social Services, Children's Health Services, and National Child Protection Committees shall work under the strategy set out here with the primary objective of child protection laws to guide and ensure adequate training of children and that children living under unsatisfactory circumstances or risking health and development are provided with the necessary and effective assistance. If these goals are to be achieved, it is clear that the cooperation of various systems that have contact with children and families and provide support and assistance to their children and families. This also means that much earlier is needed when the threshold for intervention is reached on the basis of child - protection laws. Children's interests require that all systems that try to protect and serve them and their families be put on high priority, especially prevention, prevention, and control of parents and children. The threshold for invasive measures must be reduced in order to promote support in general services, including with advice, support and systematic screening for possible problems. This applies to schools, health care, and social services, as well as to any other services that concern children. There is a requirement to make clear the responsibility of integrating services and resources for which there is great will within the government and to be a part of a extensive review of all child - care services across the network and the Ministry in cooperation with a tripolitical committee. To this end, efforts were made to look at the writing of the recommended proposal today. The Ministry of Social Affairs will have overall management of the implementation of the programme as well as the management of specific measures, while Children's Health and Company are responsible for other individual measures. All measures have been costed, and these costs are reported. Action will be evaluated according to the criteria specified within each procedure. In addition to the UN Convention on Child Rights, the European Council's Convention on Protecting Children From Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse, as well as other international Human Rights Convention of Iceland, will be fully cooperated with its professional and stakeholders for the implementation of the programme for the development of knowledge and experience. The programme also focuses on the development of services to children and on child protection treatment options and emphasises children's community involvement. The programme was implemented in broad and well-explored with key stakeholders, including on priorities and priorities. The committee who wrote that the program was appointed representatives of the Department of Social Services, the Children's Health, the Union of Iceland and Reykjavíkurburg, but was also based on proposals made by the Commission's Advisory Group, appointed to ensure that as many views would be considered for access and consultation with stakeholders. A respectable president. The proposal I recommend here today includes the fourth child protection programme of the State, which is inspired for a large attendance at services for children and their families. The plan is ambitious and aims to promote child protection in the early stages. It aims to improve child - protection infrastructure to prevent the problem as soon as possible, but more is being done by increasing the data available to meet the child's needs before the problem develops and becomes more serious. The work programme expects additional cooperation, cooperation between state and rural society, and significant increase in funds, some 600 million. K., to the seminary of the season, and they go on building up and developing resources and services, especially in the closer environment of children. This Children's Protection Programme, as defined in current Child Protection Act, is defined and defined according to this plan. However, the plan and implementation will be carried out in a way that shows that children's issues are overall. This has been taken into account in the suggestions presented here. The plan is quite extensive, but it is expected to highlight eight pillars that I'm going to briefly review: A.S co-work and vision on children's affairs. It is important that the system of service that protects children and provides family and children cooperate in a progressive way, on the contrary. This will help to improve child - rearing conditions and to form a full - sighted, united service. One of the greatest challenges in this regard is to identify the problems of children and their families as soon as possible and to ensure that the child is dealt with with with with with with with appropriate support or action before the problem develops and becomes more serious. This service and setting must ensure all children in Iceland, regardless of their residence, origin, or other circumstances. To ensure that such an overall vision is achieved, it is very important that the active group be represented by the advisers of children's affairs. Such a team of directors has already been established in cooperation with six Ministers and has the responsibility to ensure systematic coordination of action, across the Ministry and Institutes, in support of children, as well as to provide support and cooperate for the work of the transverse Parliamentary Parliamentary Parliamentary Committee on child issues on child-friendly proposals for changing legislation, regulations and implementation and monitoring of changes and induction. According to the plan, this control team shall submit to the Generals' Fall Assembly of 219 policies on the affairs of children in which there will be a collective subject for the child's interests and services of the child, across the systems and institutions, from the time of pregnancy until the individual reaches adulthood. B. Change in child protection law. The Federal Parliamentary Committee on Children's Issues, supported and cooperated with the Management Board on Child Protection and the cases of other laws that must be adjusted at the same time to achieve a full vision of child care. Work will be provided with suggestions from a group that worked on child care policies until 2030 for the Ministry. The objective is to adopt a cross-cutting attitude toward changes in child - welfare activities and experiences of other governments, taking into account the need for analysis, stress evaluation, and taking into account the quality and balance of national child protection. The plan is to submit to the General Assembly at the Fall Summit of 2019 districts for the change in child protection and after acts of other laws. Sentence and review of regulations on the basis of improved child protection laws will be completed 2021 and changes will be successfully implemented in 2022. C. Early intervention and preventive measures. Among the factors highlighted in the program is the promotion of parental training in child care and the introduction of a new treatment for families in children's homes from six years of age who have lived under violence and neglect. D. Support for children in foster homes. Indicates the overall support for the developing foetuses and their foetal and sexual parents by means of the procedure '-KEEP/PTTC, by permission of a president, and by promoting the function of children's sexual and foetal parents in temporary and permanent fetuses, the child's behavioural and emotional problems will increase their risk of returning to a safer setting in the home of their birth parents. E. Treatment of severe behavioural and substance problems. Each year there are about 100 families who have increased or severe behaviour and/or substance problems using so-called MST or multiorganic therapy. Serving in a family home has been a success. There has been an increasing demand for MST treatment, also in the country, and waiting lists have been created. This is very undesirable in view of the nature of our ministry, for one primary objective is to respond quickly to requests for appropriate services to children and families in their homes and in close surroundings before the problem grows. The MST treatment arms will therefore be increased and the services will be established and made even more accessible in a national language. There's more to be suggested, including induction of treatment in specialized private homes for children with severe behavioural problems. It is suggested that significant funding be provided to improve the assistance and increase the number of support workers on support and to improve the treatment of children who have serious behaviours, drug and drug addiction problems. In addition, there is a new treatment home that will be located in Garden Town on schedule. Preparation is already under way and the aim is to begin next year. I've got an F. I.D. on child protection. Improving child - protection practices is expected to help support the work of child protection committees and ensure proper priorities for projects. Children's protection staff need to be properly evaluated and treated, as well as to increase support for the staff of Child Services, with the goal of strengthening their work. It is important, then, to ensure that the information and registration of the national Child Welfare Committees are accessible and consistent across the country and that there is one database for national child protection. Research, research, quality food. Specific tests and studies are important to ensure adequate effectiveness and effectiveness within the child protection system and for the paediatric services. It is suggested that children who have experienced or witnessed domestic violence, physical and mental abuse, receive services comparable to those of children who have experienced sexual violence, including probe interviews in a children's house. It is also suggested that the results and results of children who have received resources from the Children's Institute, as well as an assessment of success and testing of the child's outcomes. H. Follow-up and induction of changes. To ensure that the extensive and ambitious changes made will become reality, it is important to have organized follow-up and its induction. It is therefore suggested in the plan that this will be done according to the Management Board's special implementation plan on paediatric affairs in consultation with a Synod Committee on the affairs of children. At the end of each development programme, there is a communication plan for the implementation of changes and that the management group of the Management Board on paediatric affairs follows them systematically. It should be assumed that the next implementation programme will aim for continued modification of changes along with assessing the effectiveness of system and adjustment and the need for review of certain parts of the procedure or induction procedures. A respectable president. I have come to explain the basic proposal for interpretation of the child - welfare strategy for the next district election in 2022. I allow myself to suggest, at last, a respectable president, that this proposal, following this discussion, will be referred to why. The welfare committee and then to the second.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-96.u26	President. I'd like to start by celebrating this operation program. Well, it seems to me that a minister is going to live under the name of the Children's Minister, which is very good. It's a great plan of action. I'd like to ask, though, but I was here in April 2017 when a plan was proposed. She was only one year old, and then I spoke to the local minister of the seminary about why there was a legal dilemma, because under child protection it's supposed to be part of a four-year plan. At that time, that was the year before, when a plan had also been established for one year. But it's a three-year plan. When we set up the case at a meeting of the welfare committee at its time in May 2017, it was reported that work should begin immediately in the autumn of the new and more comprehensive program that could be agreed on right after the fall of rural elections. I wondered: " What happened to that job? Why was this not possible before? I always find it so strange that it's so easy just not to do the law. I don't really understand that. If you agree to a four - year plan under child protection law, then why don't you apply the law?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-29-96.u27	A respectable president. Actually, the person being present wasn't at the council when the last social minister, Social Affairs, and Equal Opportunities minister, the latter, led this class, so I wasn't present for the discussion as a matter of course. A senator witnesses. Here's a plan for the number of years expected under child protection law, so I can't really answer what was behind a former government or former minister. What causes this to happen only now? I think that's even. Because when I came into the Ministry, it was estimated that I would have a very radical change in this series of issues. I felt very important that for that work all the parties involved were called and that we allowed ourselves to think outside the box and not in some Band-Aid cure, as we've been for far too long. This may have resulted in a slightly longer period of survival than expected. On the other hand, everyone is on board, and they are different sides that come, both rural and federal organizations, union members and others, agree on the measures proposed here, which are more ambitious and more radical, I'd like to state, but we've seen for a considerable long time, even since the Children's Protection Act was written in its own time. I am stressing that this plan is being given good publicity at the council and that it is thought of by the work, the radical changes we are making in child protection and social services to children, and that they can change at the same time. I may not have much answers for what? A senator with her questions, but he hopes that this will do some good.
