ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u1	Borist has written a letter from the chairman of the United States Parliament to Vigdís Guðmundsdóttir, the 1st Reserver of the Continental Society's Art in Smoke. As an example, have proclaimed pasturism and will be replaced by a council as an assistant to Ágúst Ólafur Augustus Ágústsson. It has been requested that 2 strategist of the United States organization's list in the district, Einar Kárason, be placed at the World Council Hall on Thursday, February 7. At the request of the president, the national government has assembled and issued a bill for the Einar of Kárason Kafyson. At the same time, the board of directors and monitoring committees have been called to discuss the stock market.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u2	Mr. President. As mentioned in the case of the highest. The President has arranged for a board of directors and patrols to review Einar Kárason's campaign, 2nd Conflect of the Smoke Company. A., from the government of the United States. In agreement with the Commission, they failed to make comments to the theme letter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u3	As you can hear, the board of administration and monitoring committees recommend the approval of the convention and therefore consider it acceptable without a vote if no protests are moved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u4	Since Einar Kárason has not previously taken his place in the General Assembly, he is obliged to sign the commitment to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u5	Einar Kárason has signed his commitment to the Constitution and is welcomed to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u6	A respectable president. First, I want to thank the Committee for completing this important matter and for bringing the matter into this suit. It's very important for us to be able to get going, it's very important for the road to provide for this five-year plan and for the rest of us to see a 15-year strategy that we vote on later today. On the other hand, it gives us the opportunity to look ahead, to live up to the strong statement that here we are putting more money on the road than ever before, i.e. in the five-year plan, and expectations of more into the future. At the same time, we have taken a significant discussion about other routes, on quick construction, on public transportation, and on air transport. I thank you for the discussions that have been held at the Senate Hall, at the Committee, and, indeed, in the community, but we need to go further in that discussion. We'll have the opportunity to explain, but thank God we've come to this place today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u7	Mr. President. All of us in this country agree that transportation needs to be greatly improved. It's about the economy, the community and the environment. These important infrastructures have been dropped on the right watch in unprecedented entrances and should not be done enough. While there is some form and a change in the schedule to be made, the suggestions here are unacceptable and the fugitive is unacceptable. We can well finance these necessary projects, and it needs to be covered whether the estimated currency would add to the wealthy people in the country, which I think they do by this suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u8	A respectable president. Of course, what a milestone it will be if, according to the suggestions given by most of the council, this is now about to be settled. What a marvelous effect this will have over the years in the restoration of the transport system for the benefit of the people! These are environmental, transport and big interests in all respects. Many try to stir up dust around here on the rest of the matter. The suggestions are referred to as unattractive. Yes, that's because the export is going to come on a legal bill, a respectable president. It is said that the price will outweigh less wealthy people than others. I came into my speech earlier that those who speak that way have not spoken with me or others about having, for example, spoken with me. a special price for older citizens and disability, a special discount to help those who are less wealthy and less lenient. On the other hand, it does have a form of conjecture. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason did and we are united that we will suggest it. [[The president calls.]] There have been talk of taxes in the capital area. Of course, that is not true. The commission shows that we are going to protect the equations of all the people of the land in this payment. This is a national campaign, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u9	Mr. President. This transport program puts the public against the wall: the money or the life, says the government, as did both in Lakka-Löna. Why do I say that? Because all of the most important transport improvements in the programme are taken out of the schedule. All the improved life - threatening roads that should be first of all will not be realized unless people are angry with their money in the form of roads, or they continue living in life - threatening roads across the country far and wide. Whatever the vague plans and threats, it is evident that those mentioned will be weighed down with a tax price. While we do not prevent the government from setting up a transport strategy, we protest this priorities and protest that people must choose between safe roads and roads.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u10	A respectable president. I would first like to express my general satisfaction with the fine work being done on the Environment and Transport Committee and the Prince's decision and position in this opinion of the greater part. There are two things that I especially wanted to mention in connection with the vote, one of the things that have been held up through the discussion, that by means of the approach that will be at the same time seen to take steps back with the widespread charge of traffic and vehicles, which is enormously high, so that there will be no further discussion of the costs of traffic costs. The other point to point out in this context has not been discussed in the context of the section is, of course, much work remains in terms of urban ideas. It will be interesting to see which lines will be placed in the work being done. Money in this direction is very limited in the current suggestions, but this is to be considered in later stages. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u11	Mr. President. We hereby vote for a full-finance but an extremely neglected transport program on the state of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Sadly, the proposals for a more important part, with the support of the Central Party, do not aim to ensure the safety of road users, but simply delay the necessary action while the management parties agree to make significant taxes and to pay a punitive basis for the entire population in the country. Then the government will also provide wealth when it comes to a major effort on climates, with the necessary structure of public transport across the country, in urban areas and in rural areas. Astrologers, including those in the United States, adopt a policy that pays for them. But now the government led by Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, is going to bring in a right man's course, that the citizens who use, regardless of their economic situation. The Matrix allows a vote with the changes in my share's proposals, and I encourage the Senate to examine them carefully.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u12	Mr. President. As an employee of a program in the malbak, I noticed it very well ten years ago when the crash demand for malaria fell by 70%. Since then it has slowly gone up, but very little. Everyone who drives the roads knows that putting money in the road system has been extremely neglected. What that government promised to do in its government covenant that she assigned to her classes was to use the government's belongings in the way. The bank's only income is 33 billion and should not be used in the road system. There are supposed to be 30 billion in debt, even though paying off debts is four times less important than building up the road system. This is a security matter, and we all want to do this. The way the government has used the government's terms instead of standing by the government covenant, using money from income money to pay for the road, is to say to the inhabitants of the southwest corner: The only way for you to gain safety in the road system is by paying for it yourself out of your own pocket. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u13	Mr. President. We take to heart a recommendation for the full - time transport programme, opening up what we have called hurrying projects. This is a major step toward improving security - of course, accelerated safety - better traffic flow, improved air quality, and improved public transport. The social appeal is very strong in this direction, and the implementation of road costs will be in the direction that the cost of each road will be equal or better than the amount. We continue to work with the road structure, experts, and others at the implementation of road costs and the review of transport programmes this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u14	A respectable president. The preferred road transport program is quite ambitious, expressing promises of transport efforts and safety initiatives. Nevertheless, there is no clear evidence of reversal and structure in many urgent, even regional, tasks. One fine example is that of the northwestern district. Nowhere in the country are the numbers of ill - treatment roads as well as of single bridges that pose great dangers to road users, especially tourists, who are not well - known. I name Waternes, Wood Beach, and I hunt a placebo necklace on the beach, where my legs are falling and moving in the banks. Overwhelming and emotional discussions that the roadways, which are translocations, need more management than these have been offered. She needs more time and more discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u15	A respectable president. 70 billion bucks. The need for maintenance, even a couple of hundred million dollars new building needs - this transport plan cannot get close to what needs to be done. She's quite slipped, in it are large holes, and the most obvious are around the capital area. All the experts involved there pointed to the most dangerous places that will give us the long - lasting gain if we go there. For some reason, they are being conducted under a road plan. That's weird. It's also amazing that it says there's never been more money in a transport program. They naturally forget to take into account inflation. Relatively speaking, not even averages of capital are placed in a transport program. Before the election, all classes also said: "No dues. " For some reason, they're still coming here today. It's amazing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u16	Mr. President. I support the opinion of the greater part in advance that I make of the amount of roads. It's going to be further developed. I make a warning about a so-called product world where people pass through a number of roadway gates, that they are not overcharging those they have to do, both in the capital area and in those who have the way to the capital outside the country. This is a clear message to the minister, not entirely implemented, but a message to the Minister to appear at the council with the proposed suggestions. I believe it will be done. I think this is a very important way to fix the road system and that this is a way to do it. I have also warned that the cost of car owners is reduced along with the recording of roads.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u17	Mr. President. Thus, during the past few days of the government transport program, it has been strongly objected that the inhabitants of the capital area and the southwest corner are set up in a way that nearly all the important projects relating to security, traffic weight, and environment are subject to the requirement that in this area people swallow road charges far beyond those that are expected to be elsewhere in the region. The discussion has then shown that the majority of the budgets are not implemented and that there will be an equality among the population. I interpret the words so that we can be confident that we will see a radical change of ideas when the transport secretary's bill comes up and the next fall will be adopted as a new policy of transport. I welcome it, but I also ask: What was the purpose of this course of divisiveness and inconsistencies if things were on the other hand uncut?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u18	V.E.G. President. Today, we vote for a five- and 15-year-old transport plan in accordance with official financial guidelines. Today, we're paying the vote for a full-time transport programme. That's news. This amount of money has never been estimated. Transport is one of the most important problems we have here because transportation is in the community, education, health, equality, security, employment, the affairs of our descendants, cooperation, and future. I welcome this phase, and I look forward to sharing even more fully.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u19	Mr. President. I agree with the people who are happy that this is a well-finished transport program that is being added 5.5 billion annually for three years, except for the 4 billion that were added to transport during the first year of this government's work. It shows that we are serious about what we said in a government contract, that we wanted to use property money to build up transportation, as we did not lack the need for years of neglect. Then I'd like to give my best compliments. Transport secretary for particularly good cooperation as a member of the capital area at the mayor and mayor of the capital area. We've had several meetings with these leaders in the capital area, and we've agreed on the priorities ahead of us, whether it is a strong public transportation in the city line or any other important foundation project. I think this is a good example of work, and I believe that there are better times ahead not only in transport around the country but especially in the capital area. [[The president calls.]] And I especially welcome the emphasis on public transportation that you can find here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u20	A respectable president. Is it surprising, though, that you are totally confused and not sure if you are coming or going to this great General? On the one hand, it is left green on their 20th birthday that is about to add more spells to the common country by means of road cats. However, it is the Independence Party that announces in election elections that he is fighting more taxes and would like to lower taxes. Today, however, independents have approved a dramatic rise in carbon pay. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson told me earlier that this should be done with equations. Once again, the aged and the poor will be marked and given a discount on something they already cannot afford to pay. It doesn't matter. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, whether we're talking about 10 bucks. 200 k. 20 k. for someone who doesn't have salt in his grass and doesn't make ends meet. This is taxation and reimbursement at the invitation of the current Catherinen government of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir. It is as simple as it is, and the people's party will never approve of such abuse to the common people of this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u21	Mr. President. What a surprise to hear. Congress officials before the election said very strongly that they did not want to pay dues now say that this is the only way. This isn't the only way. There's no problem in Iceland that costs are the right solution. You're right. You're right. On October 24, 2017, the secretary of transportation told an interview at Channel 1 when he said that there was plenty of money left to finance the projects needed. He was right then, and now he's right. The way that is being suggested to go on tax charges to the public for finance is not the right way to do so. That's the wrong way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u22	Mr. President. This is a turning point. This is where there is a system change in national transport that is guided by security, especially traffic security and air security. Here we look forward to the long future. What a joy it is to share in the release of this matter today! Here are major progressive steps throughout the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u23	Mr. President. I kind of come up here first and foremost because of words from the highest. Prime Minister and as Speaker of Reykjavík It's amazing to talk about some of the grand improvements we have in Reykjavík. In fact, the southwest corner is taken out of parentheses. No funding for advice is given to the southwest corner, but the message is simple: If you need to pay for it, you need to pay for it. It's the message to the Smokelands. It's the message to the population in the southwest corner. When it comes to public transportation and a city line of one of the most important transport improvements in the capital area, 800 million are spent. K. in preparation for this important project, but give it some privacy. This is all the ambition of this government and of the greater part when it comes to this. Then we hear a talk about the full - time transport program when all the major projects have been taken out of parentheses. Public financial laws are very clear. We must work within the framework of a financial program that marks us, and this is not a special factor to imitate because we have acted in accordance with the law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u24	Mr. President. We here vote to contribute the necessary funds to Eaglenes Road, but all of us senators received letters from Mayor Kopavogs, U.S. Ármann A. AKr. Ólafsson, who sent a prayer call to the council for this. An amazing part of the people of Kopavogs does not have security in their homes because the fire department is unable to escape. There's no time left. It's unannounced in the same size area as there is. This is not the amount of money that we cannot contribute, and that's why we're making these adjustments.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u25	A respectable president. This is one of the ways specifically discussed in the Committee's list of my section and emphasise the priority when priorities are reviewed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u26	Mr. President. Here's the recommendation of the memory of the section to guarantee that funding for the first city line will occur at the same time as other changes are taken rather than on the basis of a declaration of the State's will to examine the case with a positive eye if anything else works. This is what the same people pay for. The suggestion for Eaglenes Road is the same injuring that the majority of the items encourage it to go up above the list of priorities, provided that there would be room for a payment of roads. Just as the rest of the country's population is getting a lot bigger than this road, and this public transportation line of the city will be badly separated from the government's responsibility for its security and transportation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u27	Mr. President. In this team, we will vote for a city line, but we will not just discuss the city line and enter a committee, a group of consultations, and into a wide range of portals and speculations. We're here discussing the exports the rural areas in the capital area have all agreed on the need to go in and that they will have to go on, i.e. The building of a city line, because if we're going to do as the government suggests, we're gonna do this over the next few years - we're going to agree with a transport plan to five and 15 years - traffic in the capital area will increase by 40% in the next ten years. I think all the road users in the capital area are aware that it is both dangerous and will cause a significant impact on all everyday life, both the people and the people here, so that we suggest that money be placed in the project rather than just a committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u28	A respectable president. Both of these suggestions include the memory of the part with a polyglobian, unfunded suggestions that are highly unconvinced. [[Up front.]] It is thrilling to observe this presentation, a respectable president, of the people who speak of some special tax system on the southwest corner that this is not at all. If our proposals are read, it is a national detriment of collections, a national campaign for improved transport. There is a discussion between the Department of Transport and the Association of Unites in the capital area for the development of a marvelous improvement in transport within the capital area. They're not finished. True, they are classes that accuse us of a tax system, such as at the time. Congress officials, already committed to the city's infrastructure, which is the worst injury to young people and to those who are trying to buy an apartment for the first time because it all lands on their expense team. These people talk here and they pick up dust, but they don't look in the mirror and talk to themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u29	A respectable president. We are not paying votes for any fees in spite of all kinds of votes today. The 800 million who are 300 and 500 in the next two years are completely consistent and consistent with the wishes of the rural communities in the capital area, an agreement that was made, and we stand perfectly like other projects, and then we can get started for the next two years and prepare for that work. The members of the Parliament who made these changes and came up here on behalf of the United States, and in the greater part of the city, well know that the greater part, and the rural areas in the capital area, have suggested that we go the same way as other cities, and that these are going to be set up subsidized traffic systems, including to build public transportation and footways. That's why I'm surprised to hear this discussion. But there's a complete agreement between the state and the local community... to reach an agreement on exactly this transition. [[The president calls.]] Hence, it is easy to contribute a amount of money to a transport plan when such an agreement is not readily available.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u30	A respectable president. The motions of the smaller section we're paying here votes for... I call it "no more than a people's jars, " both previous suggestions and the remaining ones. Nowhere did I see these ideas when we discussed the budget or financial plans. When the budget bill was discussed, there was always no room for this development in the transport program that is being adopted here, except by means of financial change. It is quite possible, this is a transport plan, and it contains financial or financial contributions that have been assigned either to the budget or to finance. To offer such suggestions that they know they are not going to work out is nothing more than pedigree and showyness. They have offered suggestions on how to finance other things so that they cannot decide where to use the money. [[Take it up for: Virtual Funds.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u31	A respectable president. Here's the hole I mentioned earlier. There's money for all of this, huh? paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason. There is no ethnic group in offering suggestions for obvious road and transportation, which, in fact, best be paid in this case completely self-impliment to the benefits that have been presented to us by these roads. It's completely undefeated to set people up with a tax payment to pay for these projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u32	A respectable president. It simply agrees with the importance of engaging in these vital transport improvements, that we will be taken into account even now to find ways to finance them from the state's budget. It's been discussed repeatedly, e.g. The possibility of selling property to finance these important projects is easy to clear up the holding of state funds on banks. There is an unprecedented high holding of financial systems in comparison with other Western countries. The fact is, the Independence Party has led this case with the goal of raising taxes in spite of everything else. It is the entire population in the language referred to here. He's afraid to take the fight with his government colleagues for the sale of the bank. It is far easier for the Independence Party to take the fight and raise the taxes than to take a step in reducing the government's holding of financial companies and using capitals to invest in infrastructure. It's a little strange to call it right-hander.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u33	Mr. President. When I asked Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, who is on Pirata Environment and Transport Committee for Transport, how could this important transport improvement be made on the southwest corner, he spoke of an accident costing the community a total of 50 billion a year and that it has been calculated that it will be half the cost of society if these projects are taken care of? Then you can figure out that if you borrow a loan for it, five years or so, let's say it takes ten years to pay off the loan. If we take up the project, we'll increase security, and it will pay up in ten years instead of taking a loan that will be paid up to 20 years and letting the people pay for it. It's a very simple account example.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u34	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. A senator who spoke before and before me and others completely agree that the use of transportation is often worthwhile. They're a matter of well-being, as I've said many times, but the council has never handled this case, not for the less than six years I've been at the Council and tried to speak for it. Therefore, I wait for the change in the memory of the item to take place here today to be overlooked by him in making budgets, that the priority there is that the less part is ready to eliminate 14 billion per year for the next six years from the transportation budget. I'll join him in that discussion. [[The point is: Will you accept it?]] It hasn't been in here yet. Besides, I'd like to point out the way we're voting on here, we're getting our guests to help us build up the wood as well. The guests will benefit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u35	Mr. President. They have been called the Populists, who want to ensure the safety of road users. That is correct. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur's Árnason that the council has not been able to handle the necessary changes in the country's road system during the six years he has attended a council and his party has been in the government. That is why we are in the position we are now in. He has spent the entire time being a member of the council. They have not been entrusted with the security of the people on the street with the necessary infrastructure, property, and property. This is a sentence against the government. This is a judgment against the Independence Party and all groups that choose to work with him.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u36	A respectable president. We'll vote for an adjustment proposal that goes on to correct certain items in a previous committee party. In a paper with the new proposal, it says: ▪ When changing transport plans, it is not the purpose of the greater part to delay the completion of a project or to significantly reduce the performance rate. It is thus suggested that the fail of budgetary contributions to the Road of Skarhola be reduced to 400 million. K. By 2019 this work can be completed this year. [...] As a result, 400 billion are not needed. K. By the road by Kjalarnes to produce them in 2020, the speed of construction there will not be disturbed. ◯ I think it's an enormously important adjustment proposal, and I hope that a body of Congress can unite that it is necessary to go to important transport improvements and security improvements on the Westland roads in Mosfellstown and then to the Kjalarnes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u37	Mr. President. I'll take my heart for what I'm talking about. paritaprevir My Bryndís Harald's Haraldsdóttir is that it is necessary to go to these Kjalarnes because it puts road users in a very dangerous position. We in the United States do not object to good suggestions, we will not call it a púllian to try to increase the safety of road users and put money into it because it costs money. It takes a lot of money not to guarantee security, accidents cost us 40 to 60 billion each year, and it's our responsibility to try to secure road users, as well as to be careful with the money we are assigned to take care of.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u38	A respectable president. The reason for this change is that at the outset the committee had received the message that, since treaties with landowners and design on the road from Kjalarnesi were not far from opening up for the first year of this campaign, there would be no reason to tie money at that time, although it would be improved later in the period. After a meeting with the University of Vega and a review of these matters in the Ministry, it was concluded that the first stage could be offered this year. However, there is reason to mention in this context that if the tax concept becomes realized, it can be done with all force in a complete effort at Kjalarnesi in a much better way than the material does, in order to form a double, and even a misdirection of perforations instead of 1+2 solutions by phone mornings. The change will be much faster and much better. [[Take it up: without expenses.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u39	A respectable president. I agree with the important corrections being made here, but the minor changes made to work in the plans for the changes in the majority of the segment's forms were not to allow the delay in the completion of projects within a five-year schedule. Hence, it was important when a meeting with the Road to travel through Mosfellsville, Swamp Road, was ready to be sent out soon, that the change could be made, and as a result, Kjalarnes can be achieved at a full speed compared to previous plans.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u40	A respectable president. I agree with what various speakers have said, it's a pleasure that this change, if it is accepted, should come back in, just to make sure that the speed of construction at Kjalarnesi is held, of the important improvements planned. There's a small contribution on money within 2019 which in itself doesn't matter, neither in the beginning nor in the end of action, to the Grinsavík, as we know from the discussions here. It is important that these 400 million come back into 2020 to ensure that the original fulfillment of this vital project will be carried out. I agree with what happened to one authority and to the candidate of this transition, hm. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, for a move from the roadside route, the shortcut route, can be expected that the export of Kjalarnesi will be more hot than has been submitted so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u41	Mr. President. I'd like to account for my vote on the transitional proposals of the more part on the emphasis on the road charges of the transport programme. This is a complete revolution in the ideas of the financing of public transport and is nowhere to be found in the government covenant. These methods of financing in society are not fully satisfied. The ideas presented are that the capital city pays its maximum taxation in the country, since most ideas about the location of collects are around the capital area. This is also a drop in taxation, which is more taxation on the income - less money than on the more abundant ones. I ask: Shouldn't the basic system be built up and maintained from a common fund rather than by a special tax? Here, too, an even more precise, more detailed, more detailed suggestions are needed by figures and statistics to form an informed opinion on the subject. Here, Mr. President, I believe the beginning of the reverse end and in reverse terms, is that we decide to set a road tax or a pass on the road without having the final application ready. I can't support this part of the adjustment process more than the rest of the transport plan, so I'll stick by it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u42	Mr. President. It is clear that in the United States, we will not vote for these guidelines on the pressures of road taxes and road costs because we see it as a tax collector that will weigh on those who are locked on. It is not to be taken into account by those with very little possessions. I have to say, just because I'm up, this one time, it's kind of affordable to watch a member of the board come up here on one another like they're in a campaign and not make decisions about what we're about to do now and the next few years. It is said that the future will be great, that everything will be better then, instead of taking responsibility for what they are here in the greater measure. Of course, we will vote clearly against these taxation programs on the entire public.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u43	Mr. President. In 2013, it was the political decision of the Independence Party and the forward party to starve the inside of society. The same categories, now supported by the left green, dropped the cost of high - quality productions, suggest that the tax on the bank is reduced, and that they are not able to think of taxes on heavy income or on the income of those most available in this country. Overall, it would do more than cover these improvements. So they say to the public, say to people with low and medium income, "If you want better roads and traffic security, you just have to pay higher taxes, pay roads, and taxation." But they all promised them for the 2017 election that they would not pay dues at all. Now they are betraying it cheerfully, and I see no better than that they are just proud and somewhat proud of betraying voters in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u44	Mr. President. We're here paying the vote for the change in the majority of the sector's subsidies on the domestic flight. I'll give them a warning plan to subsidize air traffic charges from the country's settlement to Reykjavík in this way. It's a crazy operation. It is estimated that all eight contributes from the country's settlements to Reykjavík. I am aware that in the government's Treaty, it is necessary to make the international flight more practical for the inhabitants of the country than for the much subsidies now planned to be added to existing subsidies on the international flight and to make up for up to 1 billion more each year, and at times when we have undergone the Paris agreement to reduce emissions to escape the warming of the climate. We know that flight is one of the main factors of air pollution. If these much air subsidies are thought of as a concentration to the inhabitants of the country, would it not be better to use the less than a billion dollars a year in public transport in the country, in long - awaited improvements in the road system in the region, or even to add internal services? It is often referred to in a so - called Scottish way. [[The president calls.]] It may also be noted that in Scotland the Scottish Gobster Party has been highly critical of its discount, and a report on the state of climate and climate since 2017 reports that since the return of the tax strike on the flight, international emissions have increased. [[The president calls.]] So I will be embarrassed by this suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u45	Mr. President. In Iceland, we live in a very peculiar situation. We are a very small nation in a vast country. With three, four other states, Panama, Kuwait, Mongolia, and Djibouti, we live under the circumstances of about 70% of the nation, even more, living in a very limited place and so others very scattered. Hence, in the last 100 years, we have had to build all the necessary central services, hospitals, schools, administration, General, cultural institutions, to the highest level in the capital area in order to be able to do so seriously. But in order to have such an agreement, we also need to make sure that all the people in the country have a chance to attend this service. So I think it's important that we look at a way like the ones we are discussing and, of course, take public transportation on land as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u46	Mr. President. Here we vote for the important interests of the people of the country who have to travel a long distance to attend all kinds of services in the capital area. The evidence indicates that such an action can have a positive effect on the standard of living for these people. Of course, this is no magic solution, but it is a very important link to increase equality in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u47	A respectable president. There are two things I would like to come into contact with this adjustment proposal. On the one hand, we need to remember that a central service is more and less all of us built up here in the capital area, and it is probably only to support that the inhabitants of the country can effectively pick it up here without taking to make a bus for nine hours and 15 minutes from Akureyri or 12 in 12 in the city of Bulgaria. Of course, no one accepts that it is defined as a public transportation to attend some form of service. I'm just glad that this change will come in here and hope that the export will be in such a way that there will be great happiness for both the inhabitants of the country and the international flight that, as we all know, will be in a very difficult situation for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u48	A respectable president. I agree with the members of Congress who have already been brought up. It is very important to consider these factors. Of course, the fact is that we have built most of the central services in the capital area and much of the current economy, e.g. in our medical system in recent years, just as it was in the form of carrying even more heavy service to the capital area. Of course, we need to look for ways in which we can cope with the expense of traveling. will result from this change in the population of the country. Thus, while we are not in general the subsidies of the state's budget for employment, we support the objective set out here. Of course, careful attention must be given to the implementation of this subsidies and its costs and funding, but we give support to the careful efforts of this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u49	A respectable president. As an economist on the environment and transport committee, I support my proposals for any proposed items. Generally speaking, Piratar and I are in favor of responsible financial management. Therefore, in the financial programme, we always asked for a priority list so that we could make informed decisions as to what projects would fall out or what tasks would be added, e.g. On Vega's priorities, if more money was added, or if less money was added to the lawsuit. We never got that. As a result, we were unable to make informed decisions about this, boy. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur, Árnason, what would be done, or what would be done if money was added? You see, this is a little bit about us seeing one large amount of money in the budget, but we don't know what priorities are involved. Of course, we assumed that the extra security and weight of transportation would be at the top of the list, but they weren't. We'd have wanted to arrange it differently.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u50	A respectable president. This is where we vote on a proposal for easy transportation goals, a- team; what I say really applies to b-a team as well. It's still trying to put dust into the eyes of those who monitor the transport agenda, because this is a project that is already being proposed and we've already voted for the five-year program. It is a major cooperation on the export of public transportation, both in the country and in the capital area, to shape the present environment and to provide public transportation. It is part of the process of reviewing the amount of money they are at any given time, and one of the goals is just to coordinate national subsidies.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u51	Mr. President. This proposal suggests that we make public transportation a practical option for those who each day have to travel to and from work with vehicles. We are trying to help reduce pollution, reduce carbon dioxide emissions by getting more people to use public transport. For this to be a realistic option, this Internet needs to be carefully built. We believe this will be done by increasing the number of passengers and increasing the extent of public transport, increasing the frequency of travel, etc. It is of great importance that those who use public transportation every day find significant results in their own wallets that they pay. But this is not the case today, and it is not the case today that this is being done by some government 'cause more part of the environment and transport committee does not put a cent on this project, not one cent. [[The president calls.]] All the rural areas in the country have canceled the agreements with the state because of public transportation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u52	A respectable president. Here's a vote to add to the Public Transport, Walking and Bike section; a variety of travel styles, as follows: It will be agreed by the Community Association in the capital area for the construction of transport in the capital area, where the necessary improvements in public transport, construction and management of public transport efforts, infrastructure and infrastructure will be emphasized and the construction of road and footpaths will be emphasised.◯ I support the whole town line, and I've been talking about it ever since I came into Congress. I am delighted to see how much harmony seems to exist in the conference hall on the importance of our making extensive improvement in transport in the capital area, both in the founding network and in public transport. But we cannot be made up of this project unless we work closely with our rural communities in the capital area, which have the means to organize this project. Of course, the government will have to come in with funding in cooperation with the local communities, and I believe we will see a change in financial planning and the next transport program where money will be carefully assigned to this project. But first, we must reach this agreement, and that work is going on at the highest level. Minister, as has been discussed many times in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u53	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the law of birth and parentorof, no. 95/2000, with subsequent changes. The movers are in addition to me, all of the members of the United States. On a regular basis, the birthoral law in Iceland was a revolutionary event at the time of their arrival, saying that they have taken a major step in equality. By the end of 2012, in the reign of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, the law of this law was adopted, with a view to prolongation of birthworm from a total of nine months to 12. In May 2013, however, these changes were turned away from the administration of progressives and independence classes. In the past six years, parents would have enjoyed more time with their infants if the change had been achieved. Since then, the United States has maintained this issue by providing the bill every year, though, by minor changes. This bill suggests that each parent's own right, according to Article 1. Section 8. The law shall be five months, and the common right of the parents according to the third sentence of the same paragraph shall be two months. Three years ago, an Eygló Harðardóttir arrived, as well as the proposal for a future policy on maternity issues. It emphasized the prolongation of the birth Oralfs for 12 months, as recommended, and increases in peak rent to 600,000. three years later. In January 2019, the payments were raised, but nothing was more important than the prolongation of orcs. The bill is in line with the suggestions given by the task force and has actually declared an interest in following them, referred to in a government contract. I suppose the government and the government will welcome the case. The surgeon general's review of the bill, with the permission of a president, says: ▪ The length of obstetrics from nine months to 12 months supports a healthy emotional attachment between parents and children and is therefore an important action in the interests of public health. In view of the importance of parental and child-friendly relationships for the development and mental well - being of children, the office also believes that birthworm will be defined as the right of a child to care in the first months of life... Prolongation of maternity would have a direct effect on human health, family life, work market, and equality in the country. The elongation of maternity is in line with the proposal and presentation of members of Parliaments left green, and indeed, members of most other categories. So I suppose there is a measure of harmony between this improvement in government and government opposition. It should be noted, too, that the labor movement supports this extension. There is no question about how precious children are to a nation, apart from the joys of children's loans, which have often been spoken of here as caring for children and children. However, much too little has been done on these issues. Some of these are difficulties in housing, children's improvements, and lack of effective support for young families of vital but often a very difficult time in people's lives, while 12,000 are getting pedophiles now than they did ten years ago. The small increase in the government's budget is just a fraction of what it takes to get a child's family ready. Parents may suffer economic damage because of absence from work. So it takes a lot of financial space in this country to have a baby while the birthworm is only nine months, and the maximum money from a feeding reserve is too low. In that case, not everyone may be able to afford to have children. This is very bad, because young people are a precious resource that will drag the bus for the next few decades to an Icelandic community. And it pays for us to beat them to the best of our efforts. The period between the completion of the maternity vacation and the arrival of a child in high school is too long today, and many families find it difficult to bear. At best, rural communities offer support for daily care, i.e. a day parents, which is usually considerably more expensive resources than preschool fees. In other rural areas, however, there is so little in volume that there is no such thing, so the problems are even greater. This also proves to be the best - to - do unions that need attention and therefore both the state and the workforce need to contribute much more. According to the BSBA report, 18.4% of the population, 18.4% of the population, lives in rural areas that ensure preschool for children 12 months of age or younger. Other rural groups have declared their will to do this, and some have taken decisive steps, but they need assistance. It's been a good time for the government for the past few years, but the situation of rural society is very different. But she's getting better, so we should be able to work on it. Yet, even if the situation is bright ahead of rural society, many have ironlike standings, and they have too little to do better in their affairs. I don't think it's possible to reduce the age of middle school to 12 months in general unless there's a significant national assistance, but it's a later matter. The report also suggests a search for ways to allow all these children to stay at 12 months of age. There's not a subject in the bill, but hopefully it'll be the forward subject of the council, because it's a very important matter. However, the first step in that direction is to bridge the gap and extend the birthworm to 12 months. It's not a complicated step, and it's not insurmountable. Other northern countries have long gone through it, and there is also a commitment between birthworm and day - care, or nursery. There is also a very important level of equality. Even though things have been better in Iceland, it is still a fact, unfortunately, that there is much more women who are at home with the baby and cannot get into the job market where the less earner is more likely to be at home with the child. Sadly, the situation still exists in our community, even though women do as much work as they do even the same jobs, they have less pay. Today, at the head of every country, we stand for the equality of the sexes, especially as a result of an extraordinary international business venture of women. Our birth - stock system is critical, but how hard it is that we still live under the arrangement that women go off the job market much longer than men with a negative influence on their situation! Mr. President. The situation of single - parent families is of great concern. The above report of the task force says, with permission of the president: ▪ The main aim of a two-part course of parental law is to match the position of women and men in a labour market, including that of allowing fathers to take time from work to spend with their children during the first few months after their birth without full loss of income. This is shown in 2 mg. 2.g. The law. The bill on this subject should strengthen the objective, since it is suggested here that the adult parents'right to observation for 12 months be divided in the following way: The mother's birth due to birth will be five months; the mother's maternity rights will be less than five, but the parent's common maternity right will be two months. Both changes included by the bill are in line with the March 2016 workgroup suggestions. By permission of the president, the government covenant stated: The social equality of the sexes is emphasized by the government. Among the things being planned in the workforce's conversation are the prolongation of the birthworm and the rise of holiday grounds in the maternity clinic. How praiseworthy it is that the government places great emphasis on equality! I have full faith in that, with the highest. Prime Minister on the helm, to be followed. I believe, however, that there is nothing to wait for. This important step should be, not change in collective agreements, but part of our basic system, which should not be forced to use machines depending on how wind puffs blow in people's wages. I hope, therefore, that there will be a fairly wide agreement on the bill and there will be laws sooner than later. Finally, when this discussion is concluded, I suggest that the matter be referred to a welfare committee for further development and coverage.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u54	President. I'm gonna start by thanking you. A senator and a spokesman for this case, as well as the entire United States of America. This is an amazingly impressive subject, and it is important that we consider extending our birth certificate, for it is a step toward building a family - living society. I'd like to ask you what. A senator. I noticed when I looked at the law on birth and parentorof that there is nothing about the child's rights to spend time with his parents, but it turns it all to the right parents to get holiday. I wondered if it has become a little out of date, especially if we consider the United Nations Children's Convention and the emphasis we further place on the rights of children and how important it is for a child's development to spend time with his parents. The time is severely reduced, as is the case today, especially when it is time for single parents whose child receives only six months with his parent instead of nine, such as those children whose parents had two parents. I wonder what. A senator had thought of it, or he could talk about it. That's what I'm talking about. A senator is open to review it in those cases - I am aware that gender rights and the struggle are important - since one parent simply does not care or wants to spend time with his child whether he or she is right in the light of the child's rights to spend time with his parent in some way that the time can be delivered, so one parent could get the whole time with the child? Should there be some kind of an exception in the law for that person?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u55	Mr. President. This is exactly the subject of a national surgeon's review. He feels the need for the birthworm to be defined as the right of a child to care for in the first few months of life. I think it's very important that we do. I think it's probably also possible to consider how to deal with the children who live and will predict living with one parent. On the other hand, looking for ways would have to be very accurate because it would not be good when two parents are present, both having the right to get to know the child and the child during the first weeks and months, could be too much to play with. That is why certain rules have been set on how they are and have been watched. to the Norwegian states, although only different. Yeah, I sure do think so, yeah. A senator, who was worth discussing on the committee, and I hope that the head of the welfare committee is worth it. A senator here speaking to me will record it. Of course, I will support all such ideas.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u56	Actually, I didn't have any more questions. I look forward to discussing the matter with the committee and seeing if this is possible, how we can meet a group of single parents, who are alone with the child. I know that there are times when it is important to meet that group. It is extremely damaging and really unfair for a child who has only one parent to find the same amount of time with that parent and other children who have access to both parents. I look forward to taking the case up on the Committee and see how we could possibly approach it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u57	Mr. President. I see no reason to spend two minutes up here where there was no question. I hear we're what we're talking about. A senator will agree and agree on the task of putting this through.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u58	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The good things he recommends here are the Logi of Einarsson's son. It is proper to note that the one here supports this good issue, of course, but I wanted to hear about speculation or opinions. For example, a senator who speaks of raising the birthworm roof is enough; nothing necessarily requires an extension of the birthworm; rather, an increase of the roof, the payment roof, as has been heard. From the Chairman of the Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u59	Mr. President. Yeah, I don't agree with that at all. Of course, these are two actions that serve their own goals. I've supported the fact that the roof was up, too, because I think it's really important to a child, even if it's a highly paid parent or father, that it also gets his or her care. I think it matters to get to that group. But the rest is totally independent and very necessary, i.e. extending the time your child will be allowed to spend with his or her parent. Although we in the United States pretend to know many things, I am not a specialist in the development of a child during the first few weeks and months, but what we have read about and what we hear is that this period is of greater importance to experts than we previously suspected. In times of increasing demand and demand for people, even pressure from employers, it is very important that this right be ensured so that parents, no matter where they are, whose employer they are and what income they earn, can use this right as well as so on, as well. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen came in, that the child will be brought together with the parents he has a right and needs the first few months.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u60	Yeah, I hear what we're doing. paritaprevir As far as Logi's concernedEinarsson we agree on this fine subject he stands here for us at the General Assembly. So we keep talking about this good stuff and I'm gonna ask you if it's okay. A senator would like to share with us how he provides for this bill, whether it could be the necessary procedure to bridge the gap between the birthworm and the nursery selection of young children. Then I wonder what. Einarsson The fact that one parent doesn't want this common month of parenthood to go with me, that there could be some possible application, and it could be something that the committee might take into consideration, that if one parent doesn't want this common month, there would be some provision that it might fall into the other parent's lap to ensure the child's rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u61	Mr. President. Only with regard to the first question. As mentioned earlier, I said that rural society is in very different shapes and in a very different way equipped to handle this. Of course, it can be about the will of the local government, but often as much as a income position, even a small one, where it cannot be held out at this intermediate point that has been promised to a day - to - day parents. In that case, it is very important that the State attends rural communities who do not have the same potential as the government has to earn their own income by changing taxation. Farming is a very narrow format when it comes to earning money and may usually only collect expenses and remuneration so that it is very important. In fact, I've been a spokesman for the complete dissociation of business institutions between state and rural society, enabling my rural society to cope with this from the other direction. I certainly think it's very important to meet a community, and then I think it's necessary to put into collective agreements, although in general I don't think that such a matter should be used as a cash exchange. A real socialistic government would have immediately offered a government contract that would have explained how it was going to strengthen the social system. That was not done by that government, and then we need to try to correct it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Senator, I'm also open to examine the exchange between parents. The nations of the North countries have done this in different ways, but this was merely by means of the group's proposals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u62	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying that it is a great privilege to be standing in this speaker's box. I thought about the discussion that less than two weeks ago, I was out in India, sitting on a platform with more Norwegian authors and local clients in mind to learn how there was more equality amongst the North countries than there was in their part of the world. We were even. asked who were there what were the three greatest steps in progress that would have been possible in this regard for the days of our lives. I could only answer for us Icelanders. I said it was first 1980 when we chose a woman as president, and not just a woman, but a single mother as well. I recalled that in the debates of candidates for the election, her main rival was said, and it was no wonder: ▪ I believe the President of Iceland needs a good wife next to him. Fortunately, it sounds like a joke today. I said the next thing I could think of was 14 years later when the R-list got more in Reykjavík, led by Sólrún Gísladóttir. Then the R-list was even. with a fight that ensures that all children get daily care all day long. I also recalled, though it may have been unnecessary, that the main category of opposition in those elections suggested that housewives be paid to stay at home and look after their children. I said the third one was already on maternity vacations, and especially maternity vacations for both sexes. I added that if I had been completely ridiculous when I first heard it, I would have paid men to rest after delivery, but you could see that this operation changed the sex status in the labour market because, in this case, particularly young women had, although in part, a very insecure job force that they were likely to go to a maternity store. As the father of four daughters, I am so happy that I had lived through all those progressive steps. That's why I think it's a very good case, and I'm counting on the rest of you who are most in charge here. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u63	V.E.G. President. It is a pleasure to be able to speak for a bill submitted at the council in October, the program has been scheduled. This is a bill for a legal adjustment in criminal treatment laws, No. 88/2008, with subsequent changes i.e. the ban on video recordings and recordings in courthouses. From the moment he first sat down at the council in 2013, the speaker had in mind putting the bill back in mind. It was submitted first to the 141th legislature but was not granted, but I have not done it before. My princes in this matter are Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, Birgir Þórarinsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Bergþór Ólason, Shamundsson, and Páll Jónsson. In itself, this matter is very simple. This is a change in 1 mg. 1 1. track No. 88/2008. 1st par. This bill reads, by permission of the President: It is illegal to record or take pictures in Congress or courthouses. If this ban is specifically stated, the judge can give an exception, being careful that there will be players and audio recordings will not be directed at judicial hearings without their consent. If audio recordings or images have been recorded in the council without the permission of a judge, it is forbidden to publish audio recordings or images. Videos and audio recordings of defendants, violations, or witnesses are also prohibited from going to courthouse or without their consent. Impressed that this case has now been reassigned, in particular, that there are three sides of a group of people who suffer inconveniences from imaging in and out of court. First, it is those who are called for a witness; second, those who are called for a hearing and/or questioning, even with a suspect's legal rights, but still innocent. In many cases, that is enough. This knows the best. A president far better than the person here says that it is often enough that someone's going into court or out of the way of a person's being branded guilty of some sort of conduct he has not been at all involved in. So that's one of the factors. It is also true that victims who often find it very difficult to approach a wrongdoer are uncomfortable being taken up on a shoot or on the way to or from the court. The other side of this coin may also be that we have an example of the appearance of lemon offenders who appear to be taking pictures of them or of a courthouse, as some form of the catharsis, or declaration of their actions. At the same time, when images are seen in or by courthouse, it is with law enforcement officers who follow the person or from a courthouse that their faces are not covered. Those who have worked with law enforcement officials throughout history, and I'm so lucky to have done so, know that this may result in inconveniences and consequences for those who do those jobs and are very busy at work, although they are not putting undue awareness of man and their personality at work. There are many examples of this, unfortunately. Hence, the matter is urgent and, in itself, is increasing as time passes and technology moves forward. As we know, it is much easier and less likely to record images and sounds everywhere, especially in the delicate environments of judgment. This now proposed law on criminal treatment has a parallel in both Norwegian and Danish legislation. It should be mentioned, and it appears in the report, with permission of the Supreme Court. President: The decision is not intended to cover shoots and audio recordings carried out by the court itself, and it includes recordings that are normal for the court's operating procedures, such as recordings on testimony and the routine use of security cameras. Then it is assumed that a judge can authorize a special photo shoot and audio recording, referring to recordings that do not involve a judge's party, who are in the courthouse because of the case. Here we can think of a photo shoot for general hearings about the court or interview with a judge, etc. In Danish courts (e.g. retinaljeaven), the principle is that audio recording or shoots are forbidden, as is 1 mg. 32. The law. Furthermore, unless specifically allowed, photo shoots are forbidden in court houses, as per 5 mgr. 32. Same song. The same applies to films of suspected persons, defendants, or witnesses in criminal cases that are en route to or from Congress, as 6 mg. the same standard That is exactly what it said in my introduction that this may cause problems, i.e. Let us testify, and the defendants, who have not been judged. And it is only natural to try to make people who have either a suspect's legal standing or the defendant more difficult than there is a need. But it's heavy enough, but I'm not talking about a special witness and/or the tolerability of the same. Norway's regulations reflect some of the Danish rules. Accountings and recordings at Congress are forbidden in criminal affairs, and it is also forbidden to record or take photos of the defendant on either the way or from house to house or council, as per Article 131. a song on these matters in Norway. It is therefore permitted to deviate from this arrangement if an important argument recommends it. The efforts to obtain pictures of judges and judges in judicial matters have grown dramatically when they do their business or are called before judges in courthouses. This is especially true in public matters. During the past few years, even cameras have been turned into courts when doors are opened during the council, such as when a new witness enters the hall. As a result, the accused and witness must always be warned in this respect during the council rather than focus on their defense or testimony. While this situation is a factor in disrupting a cause, it has a negative influence on both the defendants and the witnesses. One example is that a witness wanted to avoid witnessing on account of this. As I killed you before, technology has gone very fast. All cellular phones and iPads have built - in cameras as well as cameras are smaller and easier to handle. For example, documents in court records or documents can be taken from the defendants or quoted from a courthouse. Such a scan may have an abnormal effect on the course of the situation. The principle is of nature, as it is known, that the assembly will be held in the hearing, as it were. Laws on Prosecution, No. 88/2008. That rule is not restricted by banning films of the case into the courthouse or close to it as usual in Denmark and Norway. The limitations expected in the bill here for treatment are not too close to the principle of open Congress, in the opinion of those who present this case. V.E.G. President. I think that many people are opposed to this situation in society. I think I know, for example. The press class is not very happy with such decisions, since this, of course, limits the ability of reporters to deliver as the most accurate news or the most accurate information about anything that comes near courts or courts. But I have to say, we transporters of the bill believe that the right or the cause of the people involved, i.e. suspect defendants, witnesses, or victims, are richer than news media to share news about the presence of these parties in or at courthouses. We have observed over the past few years that reporting becomes increasingly aggressive, and since everyone has a camera on their phones, we have, for example, a lot. Notice this in bad traffic accidents in which witnesses or those who first come to take a picture and throw it into the universe before taking notice of even those who have been on the scene of an accident or who have had an accident. This may be such efforts to protect personal and personal rights and privacy from those who have the experience of being called before a judge for whatever reason I have listed above, as defendants, witnesses, or tolerateds, or for whatever reason. But I've heard, too, even. from a respected lawyer that they agree with such a law, and that they have accepted the procedure presented here in a report. I'm grateful for that, chief. President, for the opinions of such individuals who know and know knowledge and experience are of great value when such matters are presented. To this I said that I have clearly understood how this case is made up of why it is stated, why it is necessary to get a clear route through the council, and to expect that it will receive good publicity. In fact, it does not appear on the bill to which the Senate Committee will conduct the bill. I expect it to go to the General and Education Committee and expect that's a good reason. A panel will take the matter and give it careful coverage and that it can be done; of course, all of us should be able to join together to protect the very person of these individuals, whom I have made to talk about in my speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u64	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a judicial hearing on a review of the legal law. This matter is close and dear to me, and it is my great pleasure to recommend it today. I've had it in the water for quite a while, anyway, since I sat here at the council. My first talk at the Council was to reevaluate legal laws, the importance of our going down to these laws, and updated them according to Iceland's international commitment to disabled people, but in general, those who have to be treated by the law. The proposal involves that the Council appoints eight members of all categories, i.e. one member of each body, to revise the total law of law. This committee should also put it first to eliminate all legal laws that directly discriminated against people in the laws. With exactly that, I apply 2 mg. Twenty-niner. Legal law, which puts it as the sole requirement for a person to suffer from a mental illness, is likely to be such a state that it can be compared to a serious mental illness or that he is suffering from a problem with alcohol or drug abuse. That serious mental illness on its own, or suspected, is a suitable condition for as serious an intervention in individual freedom as well as individual rights and forced care is indeed a direct legal discrimination against people with psychiatric illness or intended psychiatric illness. This is something the European Commission's defense of torture and other demeaning treatments or punishment has pointed out since its first visit to Iceland in 1994 without any apparent response to or detection from the government in Iceland, which is, of course, alas. The proposal suggests that we change this arrangement and turn away from the path in which I feel the law is on, i.e. They dishonor and discriminate people, based on their lack of knowledge of their best interests. This is a persistent attitude among many people with mental illness, toward those with psychiatric disorders, that they do not know what is best for them and cannot know what kind of medicine to receive and should not necessarily be allowed to walk free if a doctor thinks they are not in the best interests of them. Of course, it is important that we have some kind of emergency resources in our laws, as we see in many countries around us, in most democratic countries. True, they have an emergency for forced care in their laws, but this clearly makes it clear that emergency measures are taken only if the life of the individual or health is a significant threat, now or others. This is not for our law of forced care. There are no conditions for the person to be threatened by, or his life or his health, if he is not under compulsion. It also does not require that at least two mental - health experts must come to the same conclusion as regarding the need for forced care, especially when it comes to continued forced care. If we view forced care as a two-point prosese, it is the first case of forced care that may last for up to 72 hours, i.e. three days, or forced care, as agreed by a businessman and may last for up to another 21 days. I'd count, at least when it comes to this later, when it comes to a person's idea of freedom for three weeks in a mental hospital, two doctors who are mental health experts need to find that it is the only option, that other measures that are less experienced or impossible, and that forced care itself will certainly bring some benefits to the individual. This would be a minimum requirement for me, but I'm afraid it's not the law that they are now. Also, strong comments have been made on the legal regulations involved in the forced treatment of those who have been under compulsion in a local hospital. As our laws are now enough for a hospital doctor to decide to apply forced medical treatment, the law does not require the protection of the person and the health of others. As soon as a businessman accepts the forced care of the 21 extra days, it does not have to be a physician's emergency to inject people, e.g. with a spare syringe or with dulling material. The problem of having the law as they are, so that there are no precise conditions for this to be the last resort, of risking someone else's life or health, is that the rights of those who feel that they have been misunderstood in this process are extremely weak if they are going to seek justice in court. Since the law says only that there must be a decision from a physician, a decision from a businessman, but it is not stated the conditions, that there should be only one last resort, that there must be a need for sexual protection, the situation of the court is extremely weak if he intends to insist that he was a subject of unnecessary or forced action. It puts people who are affected by this system on a lower level than those who have no history of mental illness or who have ever considered a doctor to be a patient with a mental illness. In the countries around us, this certainly exists as an emergency, but there are basic conditions in the law that this must be an emergency, that experts must agree on existing diagnosis. It is not enough that someone may have a serious mental illness to put him in an institution against his will. This need to be seriously examined, and this is the point of an obligatory legal law. But surely it is not the only thing that is lacking in the law of law to meet the demands that we have accepted and committed to meet, in order to protect everyone's human rights, regardless of their disability, status or serious mental illness. In these laws, we also have legal delinquency, delinquency, and delinquency. As this mechanism is set up - where lawyers are appointed to those who are considered incapable of making personal decisions in their lives - is a condition called a surmounting decision. If the court finds that a certain person is unable to make wise decisions in his life, he is appointed to make such decisions instead of him. It's in this code where a surrogate decision-making system is committed. The United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people marked a turning point in our approach to people with a disability that is having difficulty making decisions in their lives. We want to turn away from having a surrogate decision system and enter the path of offering support for making decisions for those who need it. Granted, there have been steps to further support the decision - making process with personal spokeers of disabled people. However, personal spokesmen or the system of personal spokesmen as set up in the law today do not meet the conditions set by the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people, including such spokesmen. that there should be no difference in the bioavailability of individuals on the basis of the economic situation with personal spokesmen. If people have e.g. few in the economy or in the poor economy can't get a personal spokesman, so there is a greater chance that they will be removed from legal rights, rather than being supported by making decisions, as the contract allows us to invite people. The reason why it is so important for us to offer support for making a decision rather than a surmounting decision is the motivation that most of us have, I think, that we often feel that we know what is best for others. The medical profession, as smart and educated as it is, should also feel like she knows what's best for others. By the law of law, as they stand today, we are offering an enormous position of power against an individual whose rights are deprived of self - determination, and we grant them permission to make decisions as to the best of the individual. This is what the United Nations Convention on rights of disabled people intends to turn back, not having to know people who are disabled, that decisions cannot be made based on what other people think are in their best interests, but much more so that they should do their very best to respect the individual's will. People with mental illness, people with every condition, such as serious mental illness, also have the right to make personal decisions in their lives. Bad decisions can also be made without self - determination or the freedom to live the way they want. It's a question of the line we want to set right in between. If it is really so that if the individual makes bad decisions, we can justify his loss of freedom, taking away his own rights if he has not harmed himself or others, if he has not committed a crime? Are we not simply punishing the sufferer for dealing with disability, for making decisions only differently from what we feel is in his best interests? It is the danger of today's legal law that the guardianism is allowed to go free - and it is rich in many of us - especially when the individual has become under law, according to the nature of the law. Instead of respecting the individual's will, rather than respecting the individual's refusal to get sedated or injected into a mental hospital, doctors and lawyers are granted permission to do what is right for their mate. I must say with my deepest conviction: If we don't make sure that it's just an absolute emergency to force people to force them to do things they don't want to do, to lock it up, to shut it down without our having legitimate and legitimate reasons, I can't think that's justified. I think it's discrimination. I think it's premeditated. I feel that it dishonors the right of a large group of people in the community to make their own decisions in their lives and take their own decisions and control their health care. I take it for granted that I can say no to the drugs the doctor suggests that I take one disease or another, that I can choose where to live and not be imprisoned unless I break down in that way that it is necessary to protect my public interests. The law of law, as it is today, does not protect the group of people considered to be severely ill or unable to make personal or correct decisions in their lives. That is the basis for me to recommend this arrangement, for I want all members of the council to ensure that everyone has the right to freedom, that everyone has the right to choose health care and that no one will take away their rights except for the life and health of others.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u65	A respectable president. I just wanted to come up here to celebrate this case, because I'm an importer of it, and I think this long timely review of the law. The present arrangement, as shown in the case of the day. A senator and a merchant, reflect a little prejudiced toward mental illness, disability. Why don't we say that the spirit of ancient times runs a little strong over current waters? It is long time to make this revision here at the council. I thought there was an interesting line by the dog. A senator with emphasis on the freedom of people to take control of himself as far as possible and to be more supportive of them in making a decision instead of being custody. It is that very freedom to make bad decisions. All of us make bad decisions at times, and of course we should not deprive ourselves of that right, even if we have some form of disability, e.g. a psychiatric disorder. But I'd be interested to hear the point. A senator of how this will fit into a case as presented here, to a direct follow-up likely, of a change in the law of predetermined consent. It is trying to strengthen the law so that people can shape it in advance in what way they want their affairs to be handled, e.g. if you have a serious mental illness.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u66	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I can say that there's a lot of stuff going on with this, and I think it's great that we take it at the same time. The next item on the agenda is this predetermined consent or a predetermined decision. It is sometimes called on in this case by the permission of a president, and suggests that individuals can choose in advance how they want their medical care and their treatment in general they will be able to land, e.g. a psychotic disorder or similar condition. I think it is very important that the best will or the most likely will of the individual be respected as far as possible at all levels of the situation. This is the procedure and treatment recommended by the UN for the rights of disabled people. I've heard a user group on this too. I also support the good news, and I also associate with it. Of course, I support it wholeheartedly, and I believe that it harmonizes very well with the emphasis laid forth in this council decree to respect the self - determination rights of people and to avoid the continuation of Precinctism in the affairs of mental and mental - health matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u67	V.E.G. President. I would like to start by saying that I wholeheartedly agree that it is necessary to revise the law. Although I am not a associate in this matter of Congress, I agree completely with its spirit. Like a snooze. A senator in his speech was reasoned on the rights of disabled persons, as assessed by my opinion, on the basis of the need for a review of these laws. I can't wait to deal with this situation. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. On this occasion, I'd like to hear a point of view. According to a senator, this is the way of forming a Senate committee that handles this matter. I saw a number of options and precedents in this regard - as an example, we can name the alien law. However, there are also certain things that we need to take special care of. We are not experts in these matters, though we may find all kinds of things, and it is also dangerous if we believe too much of our own ability. I ask if it is important to call the table experts, especially the specialists in the affairs of disabled people, the affairs of people with psychiatric disorders, and especially the experts in the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people to make this work somewhat intelligent. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u68	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and agree with her that it is very important to have experts at the table, no matter what the way they went to a total legal review. The suggestion to consult the disabled person's organization with the proposal is noted, but certainly we need experts in many fields to cooperate with us. The benefit of the council taking care of these things is, first of all, that we are the legislators and are fully authorized to negotiate new universal laws on matters as important as these, to provide everyone with the right to freedom, dignity, and self - determination rights of health care. I must admit that I have needed a little bit of the handling of the law at the Ministry of Justice, where they certainly have many things at home, in the revision that has been requested. I've personally done a lot of research on the law. I worked for the National Institute of Psychiatry before I sat down to the council and went through the law very thoroughly and how it meets the requirements of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Poor Peoples, as well as requirements set by the European Court of Human Rights for liberation that can be found in the law of Law. I've seen what this has been all about at the Justice Department, and although there have certainly been many very positive changes in this process, I feel that it may be a little lacking in the voice of the user and the voice of disabled people being heard better. I think the council is the democratic setting to listen to it properly, and I also think it is important that we all take on a body of responsibility that we have equality and that we enjoy it despite our disability or mental illness or whatever it is that we always have the right to the law and the right to the legal right. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u69	Mr. President. Like a snooze. A member of the council found that in his reply the suggestion to agree with the movement of disabled people is noted, and that was also true of those who were disabled. That's why I didn't list it in my case, I just think it's given, and of course it's to be done so that nothing should be done. Of course, I do, and I agree perfectly, that in every case involving the disabled, people should consult with the disabled. But I believe that if this is to be entrusted with a Senate committee, it is necessary to call for additional expertise, other than the national expertise that the law may possess. Hv. A senator referred to his history in the lands around us and where I know it. A senator is well - versed in these matters. I would like to ask which countries are being referred to. Are the North countries included? It is always important where we look for examples of well - being, and that we also know what we should not waste our time considering how things are done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u70	Mr. President. Thanks again for the counter-reguage. This question is easily answered and quickly answered. I have examined especially two countries of the North, and that is Denmark and Norway. Norway has very detailed responsibilities and requirements in its own way. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. There are considerably more detailed requirements in Denmark than here, also for forced treatment. It's been a while since I was studying this so I can't list the conditions, but Sweden has always been referred to as an exemplary member of the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people. Whether that applies to this aspect, the rights of disabled persons, the right to formalisticity, the right to acquiescation and rights, I can't tell you now, but Sweden has certainly been considered an exemplary figure in it as well. I have also examined Scotland, where it is very well. Canada is also a fine example of how this can be done well. Besides that, we have many examples, but unfortunately we cannot be counted there today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u71	Madam President. Iceland and I often boast that we live in human rights society, but many of us are aware that our rights are not necessarily the same, that there are human rights in Iceland. We know that, for various reasons, minor groups such as underpayers, immigrants, and disabled persons have limited access to basic things, such as wholesome food, secure housing, education, and participation in our society. However, not all of them may realize that of all of these, of all groups, of disabled people, there is a group of people with mental - health problems who are in the front of their feet. Above the poor quality of life, this group enjoys greater prejudice and poorer health care than the rest of the community. People with psycho-psychic conditions, e.g. Rather dangerous than others, the self - determination rights of the individual are questioned. Individuals among this group are even at risk of being forced and violent by the words of high - ranking individuals, as the people have recently seen. Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct a law of legal law which requires that a lawyer and others involved in making decisions about the benefit and treatment of a person's legal opinion respect the will of the legal penalties he has declared in a reliable way before the need for a legal delinquency has been established. In the premeditated decision-making, in English, by the permission of the President, the acceptance of the community of respecting the will of law - defying individuals even though they have lost the right or the ability to make decisions about their own lives. The change that is presented here to the law is followed by Article 4. Let the law come up with a new branch, Section 4. a, as well as a heading, as follows: ▪ Pronunciate decision-making. 1st The lawyer and others who come to decision the benefits and handling of a man's legal expression should respect the will of the legal penitents he has declared in a genuine way before the need for a legal delinquency at the time. Section 4. created 2. The same criteria as set out in 1st. you are allowed to change, increase or cancel your decision-making. 3. Under the premeditated decision-making circumstances, there will be cases of decision-making and end of treatment, the services, assistance, or special treatment provided by the legal body, the management of children to whom he alone has custody, and other decisions that will lead to his personal condition until the breakdown of law. 4. The obligation to respect the premeditated decisions of a legalist does not make decisions that are impossible to enforce or violate laws or moral values. If treatment is rejected by an individual decision-making agent it is considered that binding was made to inform the legalist of the possible consequences of that decision in accordance with the patient's rights. Then there is the prevalence of these laws. The United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people is a turning point in the human rights of that group. The contract is unsettled because disabled persons are expected to walk in the same human rights as everyone else, and if there are obstacles, society is responsible for removing them. The Treaty requires the right of disabled people to control their lives, to live independent lives in their own homes, to participate in society, to have access to the judicious system, and not to be tortured on the basis of their disability. It is clear that heaven and sea are between the laws of the current legal law and the United Nations Convention on Self - Decisions and Freedom of Every Force and Force. In the same way, it is clear that the challenge must be to update the law in the light of the agreement by means of new humanitarian means of mental health. How glad we are, then, that prior to the one mentioned in the Sermon on the Mount, a general hearing of legal laws was just given! President. We'll talk here at the Council on big issues and a few things. The big things are often considered large because they involve great personal interest and financial expenditure. For the same reason, many cases are often described as small because they include interest in fewer and less financial resources. In this context, the premeditated decision-making process may be a small matter. But that is not all history, for the nature of the matter, according to our own lives, is of little greater value than our own. The concept of premeditated decision-making involves the formal acceptance of the community of patient's will when professionals decide that the individual has lost the ability to make decisions about his or her own life. In particular, premeditated decisions have been used in two cases, in order to describe the willingness of individuals with psychiatric disorders to determine the decision-making, treatment and other aspects of their lives, to cause them to lose their ability to make their own decisions in a serious course of illness. However, it has been new to describe the willingness of patients with incurable diseases for how long they want health care professionals to put forth effort to extend their lives in order to lose their ability to express their will. This approach has been introduced into the legislation of many countries of the United States and Canada, and well over half of the European Union's countries have established national legislation on premeditated decision measures, although the extent to which the authority of the Member State is being given is different. It also varies whether or not laws have been added to existing laws or have an independent code of laws. Nor could it harmonize with whether the law covers both the groups I mentioned or the other. This bill assumes that the law on premeditated decision measures embraces both groups, and the same is not the case. The arrangement of an upcoming decision also differs considerably between countries. It is common for the individual to be available to fill out an advance form, one, with the help of a relative, a friend, or a professional. This allows the individual to mention a sort of spokesman and to request how the individual joints of treatment will be held, in order to lose his own rights of decision, or not to take advantage of it temporarily or permanently. Similarly, a person has the opportunity to settle his wishes on such factors as child care, family and financial involvement, during illness. Thus, after completion of the text in the form, the person who is the head, the professional, and the health - care centres will be contacted, thus believing that he or she has acquired a legal value. It is by far in the countries that such forms of declarations are thought to be best described in an unconvinced way by the legal expression. This bill, however, is designed to rule out the possibility that other forms of declarations can be considered sufficient evidence of a predetermined decision-making process and is left for a political program to expand it more fully. The premeditated decision firm is seen as having given good experience in neighboring countries, which includes some clear benefits for users of the health system and for caregivers and professionals. To begin with, it lends to users a voice, as I have considered, reducing the balance of power between them and professional people. Sadly, users of health care services, particularly mental - care services, have experience in their failure to listen to their needs and wishes for the current treatment, but by being able to refer to a legal document under the heading of the decision made, they can be sure that their requests for services will be taken into account, as is the case with physical illness. The second primary option of a pre-set decision is the treatment value of the process itself. This refers to the learning value of the person's wondering who is best qualified to take on the speaking role so that he or she will lose his right to self - determination, as well as the results of individual aspects of previous therapies. These include treatments, medications, family relationships, and contact with professionals. At the same time, this approach can avoid misunderstandings and unpleasant family relationships. More important, research has been shown in countries where this has been noted that the decision-making process in advance reduces forced and forced health care facilities. Mental - health aid and other human rights organizations here have repeatedly identified the negative consequences of forcing users in the treatment of mental health care. There are many examples of forced treatment when used in a medical facility, long after the disease is controlled. That's what people are sitting behind, that feeling. Unfortunately, figures also show that there has been no reduction in forced psychiatric use in the Icelandic medical institutions of the past few years, so it is reasonable to assume that people are being allowed to handle people with mental - health disorders by forcing them all too often. From the above, it is clear that there is a great deal of work to reduce the pressure in mental - health services both for users and for professionals. Action such as pre-planned decision-making should be taken to reduce this and to improve the treatment of people with psychiatric disorders. Not to be overlooked is the fact that premeditated decision-making reduces the risk of misunderstandings and helps caregivers to back up the sick. Similarly, all studies agree that pre-specified decision-making reduces uncertainty and increases confidence between user and professional populations. With these words, I would like to encourage you. Councilmen to assist people with mental illness and cognitive impairment by agreeing to the existing bill for a change in existing legal law, in order to engulf them on premeditated decision decisions. This change may at first seem small, it does not include considerable financial resources, but as I said earlier, it is disguised as it involves the fundamental human rights of all of us, you see, the right of self - determination. Finally, Mr. President, I suggest that the case be referred to the General and Education Committee, where it belongs in view of what legal adjustments are being made here, despite the fact that the matter was primarily to this benefit of the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-07-65.u72	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of the state's possession of the East Land Phone House. Transporters besides me are nuts. Allied members of Ásmundur Friðriksson, Karl Gauti Hjaltason and Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson The text of the conclusion is as follows, by permission of the president: ▪ The General concluded to hide financial and economic ministers from promoting the State's possession of the Eastern Land Phone House by looking for contracts for the State of the House, but otherwise by starting preparations for the State to take possession of the section of the Viking cemetery. Secretary will present a verbal report to the General on this event at the spring council of 2019.◯ Mr. President. I think most people will be clear motive for such a proposal. On the other hand, in the most recent case, there is a prerogative for the proposal to be given in the espionage of the General Assembly and in the privacy of the ancient city city of Reykjavík. I will now take part as a matter of interest to these factors. According to 36 st. The Constitution of the United Nations is nonviolent and must not disrupt the peace or freedom of the Council. The proposed implementation and activity of the Land Phone Zone on the East Coast, where large and large hotels and restaurants are due to travel and group trucks, may well include a disturbance in the peace of Congress in opposition to the proposed regulations of the Constitution. This must not be tolerated. The fact is that at the Land Phone Zone, a churchyard at the time was long, but the beginning of a local churchyard of a Viking church can be traced back for 1,000 years. In the latter part of the 19th century, at least some people were buried there. into the 1980's. The land line has a long history. The government gripped the course of events that threatened the old cemetery and prevented a large building, similar to the size that is now scheduled to rise a hotel, a giant south of the Landphone. In March 1965 a church Eldjárn's organizational committee, led by Bishop Sigurbjörn Einarsson and High Priest Kristján, noticed that the law was not permitted to build a building there except by a special minister of authority, that fengnnu approval of the church's Committee, the predecessor of what is now the church council. A similar law is still in the law, compare with 33. Laws on cemeterys, burials, and cremations, No. 36/1993. The government discussed its meetings in September 1965 on the need to leave the Church Street building open between Main Street and Thorvalssen Street. That story is well covered in a piece of paper. I shall no longer dwell on it, but to call attention to the fact that the government in the 1960's had a lot of vigilance on that matter. It must be noted that in addition to the arrival of visitors, the transport of various products and supplies and other supplies to hotel drivers must be considered, of course, car traffic. It has been reported in the media that firefighters also need a route around the Sheriff's Park for fire extinguishers that will cost a great deal of noise in the park. It is suggested that a planned course for firefighters is in the Sheriff's Park. This will have moved the Minjaus Institute to wish the Peace of the Sheriff's Park. January 8th was announced. that the Minister of Education and Culture would have agreed to the Minja Agency's proposal for Vow's Peace Pronunciation. All of this shows that the hotel is too large and is in too delicate places, although it was not also a cemetery for distribution. Mr. President. It should be noted that the sheriff's garden is only the west part of the old cemetery, but the Guardians speak throughout a Viking cemetery, also the eastern part of which the hotel should be built. I point to the fact that in Section III, which follows this proposal for action, Hjörfjörfjörfjörn, the Hjörleifur of Stefánsson, an architect who has taken great care of the case and organizational matters in that area. This is a new map that he kindly provided for the preparation of the case by a first missionary. I draw special attention to the map he informs the 1st transporter to be built on the latest research, including the above. Some historians who are touching this case. The entire eastern part of Thorvalsen Street is called Land Phone Cells, and about Half of that box, the western half, heard at a Viking churchyard. They dug up 32 graves in 2016 by archeological research, of which 22 complete skeletons in complete coffins, and all were taken to the National Museum to make room for the hotel. Nearby, in the eastern part of the world, bones were also formed in 2015, but they were buried again in other places in the eastern part. Again, bones appeared in the eastern part of 1967 when a canal was allowed to be dug for the foundation of the building that was broken down in the summer 2018. It was not allowed in 1967. In that year, buried in the canal, five chests with a bone of individuals and also a direct sixth person with no chestmarks. Everything was taken to the National Museum. East of the Viking Church in the Lands phone field were formerly used as grave stones with the names of buried than did the Land Phone, previous post and telephone, to remove them. They're now in the Sheriff's Park. Finally, in 1966, the eastern part of the world was still seen to be ensuing the mother and daughter buried in 1882 and 1883, with a tomb along the way and a fence around them. In the days of the day, according to the press, a chest remains were found in the eastern part. On January 8, 2019, as mentioned earlier, the Minja Office announced an announcement of the immediate pacification of the eastern park with a lasting description of peace. The Q4 is 42 days long. I call attention to the fact that the Agency's website contains its related articles. Respect for smoking's 1,000 - year burial site and respect for the People's Oath must be shown in ways other than turning the box into a tourist center. A planned hotel is overcrowded in the heart of its capital, as well as in the credulous gospels, an important and historic area is offered for personal interest. On the contrary, church laws say that a demilitarized cemetery cannot be used for anything improper for the trial of the court. No work must be made or built there should be made there, unless a minister grants permission to accept the church council's consent. Such a release has not been granted. Well, Mr. President, this ancient and historical cemetery, as a whole, will be a parade garden for the common people. Count the carriers of the proposal that the future of the box will be best paid so that the state will become the owner of the Land Phone House, which could best be used for the Generals, or that the state of the state after which the section of the Viking Church would be owned, which would be sufficient to establish the peace of the park to be arranged here. It is suggested that the minister be committed to ensuring this procedure as well as that the Council shall be informed of the matter, as previously indicated, at the spring council of 2019. Mr. President. I'd like to call attention to detailed data with this council resolution. I have previously mentioned the new invention of Astrophysic Hjörleifur of Stefánsson, who looks for the best possible goal, i.e. Based on the best available data, the eastern part of the park, where the eastern limits have been. The second package is the challenge of Reykjavík's valet, Mrs. Vigdís Finnbogadóttir, Þorgerður Ingólfsdóttir, Erró, and Friðrik Ólafsson. I'd like to use this opportunity to thank Friðrik's Ólafsson for his team in preparing the proposal. The challenge is to sign the city of honor, which had the confidence of having been chosen in the city of Reykjavík, makes it totally undefeated to build a hotel in a Viking park, one of the oldest of the country's cemeterys, and a place of worship in the capital. Their challenge ends with these words, with the permission of the president: We cut it off in Reykjavíkurburg and its builder to act immediately on planned plans, which would account for causing irreparable damage to these delicate and historical areas in the heart of the capital. We are confident that the future will be grateful for our offspring if the preparations so happily made for these plans to be abandoned, and the Viking garden will be spared. So many words, Mr. President. Third, the suggestion follows a detailed report with the challenge of the earlier honorary citizen of Reykjavík. A number of aspects of the matter are seriously considered there. It also states that many people have taken a silent report in public talk, in the pages of newspapers, especially in the morning and elsewhere, archaeologists, historians, architects, and many others, in an effort to spend the weekend of this magazine, to avoid plans, to avoid construction plans. There must not be a deaf ear to the grammatical arguments they have given of great importance and knowledge and perspective, and I allow me to say "godly devotion and respect for the sacred things of the ancient Viking. " I recall at the end that he has a history of 1,000 years and that 30 generations of smokers lie there. I allow me to hope that this case will receive the support I think it deserves. I believe that by making a donation, it is shown that at the General Assembly, there is a willingness to manage these plans. I hope that this ambition in historical terms and in view of the weekend of the ancient cemetery will lead to his being spared, as it is said in the challenge of the city of honor.
