ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u1	Mr. President. I believe that I am moved to come up here to discuss only the underlying issues that are often due to questions from members of the council. The Council's Web was at the end of February 2018 reporting on the financial benefits of a state fund for the CHAPTER/Arion Bank. The report says that the benefits are about 150 billion. It contains a feature called the assessment value of stability property. It also contains a feature called other assets, which reads up to 23.8 billion. I asked for a financial committee to disunite the identity of these assets. Now, at last, one and a half years later, the answer has come. I make it clear that no financial committee is to be accused or members of the Committee; they regularly pressed after the case. The charges are primarily with the Ministry of finance. The answer reveals that these are four factors; money, stocks, bonds, loans, and other assets. So it took a year and a half to find an answer to these four teams. [[The president calls.]] I must tell you, Mr. President that this is a disregard for the council and its oversight. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u2	V.E.G. President. I'm in the same place. I sent a request for a written reply to the Secretary of Economic and Business at the last council to discuss a sale on the state of the world. I sent it on May 6 and never got an answer, so I have sent the same question again, hoping to get an answer within the amount of time given and that the answer will be quite satisfactory.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u3	The president has heard, and not for the first time, that dissatisfaction sometimes involves how long it will be delayed to answer queries. This is followed on the part of the council in a traditional way. We strongly emphasize that if the Ministry asks for more time, if they fail to answer within the specified delay, it is often a persistent request to be received if there is a strong delay. On the other hand, it is suggested that delays in answers can be a certain fall of the number of queries.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u4	A respectable president. It was reported today that the reduction in corporate loans was high between years and that within the past 12 months, there were only half the total loans from the loan system in the 12 month period earlier. This, of course, reflects the pressures of the economy and is a major concern, but at the same time reflects the competitiveness of the Icelandic banking system. At the same time as government prides themselves because of a one - percent decrease in height during the past few months, the rate of interest on unscrupulous bonds has decreased much less, unsupervised observations. They are still very lightheaded, about 6%, despite 3.5% of the Quarter Bank. It's the same time that the economy is in desperate need of oxygen, and we see this massive recession in corporate loans, for investments in the economy. It has to be said, as it is, that this situation is precisely responsible for the responsibility of the government and this government. At the same time they're calling for oxygen into the economy, the national banking services are incompatible, including the U.S. of the very high government curse on the banking system, i.e. Bank tax, and the government intends to delay the decline of the same tax. At the same time, there is an enormous amount of personal funds on the banking system that continues to increase the bank budget, again and again, a position that is responsible for the government. This economy needs oxygen, this economy needs action, this economy needs a government that understands economic issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u5	A respectable president. In these words, a Festival of Dedication is resumed by members of the Syndicate Associations. Fellow help is always ready to help their brothers and sisters to face challenges, to help them get back on track, and I want to congratulate them on this new building and future success. There are these kinds of societies that are so important to us as a community. They give so much. This is the self - thought - provoking initiative to help people and to have resources that can help them to have a better life. It is invaluable to this great initiative and to have faith in the work of its members, the third sector, as I often call it in this chair, how precious it is to us, and how much it is to us. We can imagine what it would have cost us if these resources and the new building were all built by the government, any procedures, laws, regulations, analysis, and other activities that the people would need just to get the new building started, to get the money into it, and then to enjoy the ministry there. Here we receive a practical solution that is usually appropriate for those in need of solutions that is far better than what is inside our regular government frame. There is more space, and this facilitates access, opening up access to a much smaller amount of money, and walking much faster, and serving a lot more. For that, let's thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u6	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying the last thing. A speaker for the year-to-days to help. I was just about to discuss the issues of public interest and the third sector, which we call. It is unmistakably true that there are vastly important work there in so many ways, in a variety of fields, in social interests, and to the public good. It is very difficult to consider the role and contribution of such activities and, in fact, no one study that has been performed with an attempt to bring up the overall interest, it would be quite complex and difficult, since the sector is so complex and would be the subject of such a study to define conditions for achieving some realistic conclusion. We know, however, that the forwardness and social value, the welfare progress, the volunteer growth, the presupergence, the humanity development, the lifesavers, and I could count for a long time, are far beyond what we could do, e.g. At one time or another, financial gains were accomplished. It tells us, however, that it is wise to support all this diversity of activities that go past the world - wide problems of society and to promote and strengthen the volunteer work of tens of thousands of people throughout the country, and we do so. We do things, we have direct contributions, service contracts, and temporary contributions. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. The legal committee is, in fact, regularly reminded of that fact, especially when discussing the laws of the law. V.E.G. Financial and economic ministers ordered it in April. To discuss the tax-based environment of the third sector and to offer suggestions to promote and strengthen volunteers, to encourage individuals and legislators to support such activities, and to look for reasons for neighboring countries and to increase harmony in the rules of law. There's been a report from the group where I sit, and we also got a presentation on that in a movie there's an institution in a research site about the third sector at the University of Iceland. [[The president calls.]] I have high hopes that it will enhance research and support for the public good news.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u7	A respectable president. Here I come in the symposium to talk about the full meaning of the matter of the assembly. I witnessed an amazing situation this morning. Board of Directors and Control Committee. There has been a new chairman who has taken his seat. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir, and I want to begin by congratulating her on that order. However, it was heavier than tears to witness the incident that took place this morning after the chairman of the Committee had taken the initiative to call for a minister of justice to discuss the situation of the police. It was not a clear line on what was being done but was to look back and perhaps look inward, for what is the reason for today's situation. I don't think there's any doubt in my mind that it belongs to a board of administration and surveillance. As for the above, I want to point out that I've been the vice president of a professional committee and now another vice president of a legal committee and I don't know better than that the principle is, it's just that we have a few of the programs and while we don't comment on it when it's in our hands, you probably think it's an agreement, at least That's what she does, the woman standing here. I sincerely hope that this cooperation with the Committee, this as another committee, will make us successful and that we will stand together rather than face such events as this one had to witness this morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u8	Mr. President. A general and educational committee took on a better leg yesterday and went on a field visit to Akureyri for good and helpful visits. As a result, I'd like to talk about two things today, the police and the county. This district, from Thors Harbor in Langanesi to Siglusund, is huge, and it is often difficult to cover the winter, as well as the highlands needed. Apart from normal police jobs, the office has supported reforms in the affairs of tolerance, including violence. by taking part in a service center for the tolerability of violence called Bjarmahund, which was opened April 1. In the past nearly six months, there has been a fine experience, and it is clear that the time had come for such service in the northern part of the world. The branch office from a children's house has also been opened, which has proved helpful. The Commission also participated in experimental projects, along with the Akureyri Hospital, the National Institute for Health and Research Center for Violence at the University of Akureyri. The experience of sexually abused victims of sexual abuse was investigated by bringing charges against police and receiving psychology interviews after the hearing of a hearing, and then the experience of reported sexual abuse by a local prosecutor on sexual abuse by being announced in an interview at a police station instead of receiving a letter to his home. These simple changes have made it very important to people and show the importance of looking outside the box, especially in sensitive matters like these. We also got to see the cameras that are in several parts of the town and that have done tremendous benefits and help, including the solution to violent assaults. The client is in close service in the district. If there is a problem or a need for some information related to the public, people will often turn to the county office. The main office is to Húsavík, where there are two offices, Akureyri, and Sigludar, and branch offices in Dalvik. An informer introduced us with ideas of cooperation with our communities, e.g. in crossborder areas, about having a permanent employee living there to secure more close-up services. He also introduced to us an idea of reconciliation that goes directly across the system that I am convinced will bring us all benefits, and I encourage the Minister of Justice to study this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u9	Mr. President. The concept of carbon balance will color the activities of the Parliament in the near future and likely for quite some time. Carbon equations will soon be included in carbon contracts, calculation of carbon tracks, through the EEA Convention. This will not reduce our obligation to emissions, but it will help us. We often talk about green carbons, i.e. Forests, soils, and recovery of wetlands, as part of carbon equations, and on a scientific foundation that is sufficient for us to do without sinning. Mr. President. I'm going to call a self-sustaining carbon link, i.e. A carbon link to the ocean. We call it blue carbon in opposition to green carbon, and these are organisms that can bind considerably of carbon. It's a biomass in a beach ocean. These are the seagulls, seagulls, and trees we know under the term '-mangrove'. All of this has considerable binding capacity in the long run, and such blue carbons are in many parts of the country. Bjoining is a special reservation, and it contains e.g. A lot of this, and I think we need to make sure that two of these follow up on me, i.e. further information on peace, similar to that of Brehön, and - I have only discussed it at the highest level. Environment Minister - has the best way to use, use, and use seagulls in Iceland and the most sustainable way. In short, let's take a simple blue carbon into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u10	A respectable president. When vegetation decays more rapidly in dry land than wet - wet, it is possible for wetlands to free large amounts of greenhouse gases. Let us not forget, though, that nature never takes place, changes from season to season, and with time and length of buried canals is not a measure of emissions. In some places, nature has already solved the problem and has soaked up in a land that was once started. In other places, she's on her way. There are many cuts that never changed, since nature played both the speakers and the dignitaries. Most canals in Iceland were dug between 1950 and 1970. In particular, agricultural cuts have been dug to maintain or improve the production of previously dried land. It takes organic matter, a mollusk, one foot thick over 100 years to decompose. Meanwhile, greenhouse gases are released. Organic material in swamps, however, is very disagreeable. Some of the progressive wetlands still release much, but that is not what they do. Redemption also releases nutrients that can increase growth and, therefore, binding in the annual cycle, but emissions can reduce the demand for agricultural growth. There must be good improvement, careful not to open ground for soil erosion, and remembering that all wetlands need waste. A quick transformation can also weaken plant epithelium and withstand ecosystems. If possible, wetlands that are not used to get wet because of nature's actions, let canals drop together and turn back into streams. Use as least intervention. The development of wetlands in Iceland made many mistakes. Let's not fall into the same pit when we recover. She's not best treated with yellow graves all over the blues and fleas. Use your power of reason and science and your resources to restore ecosystems well. The area must be removed prior to recovery.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u11	Mr. President. Freedom to most things is important in Icelandic society. It must be based on equal positions, equal positions, and equality to enjoy freedom. At the beginning of this assembly, a report on the social status of the Church was submitted to other religions and principles in the country. There, many grasses are being taught, and it makes clear, as hardly any one is surprised, that the nations have considerable economic advantages over other similar societies in the country. And even if that is not a mere standard, there are about 13,000 jars. in regard to money, which highlights what the church receives for each member in excess of other religions. Therefore, a proposal has now been proposed for Congress to conclude that when it begins to write a bill that includes full separation of state and church. My suggestion is very modest. There's a lot of time for the job. I'm assuming that in the coming days, the Senate resolution proposal will be measured, and I really hope that there will be a careful, careful discussion of this big, great matter of freedom.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u12	Mr. President. Indeed, recent police coverage has been very much under consideration. It may be said that the situation that exists there is without condemnation. Police are one of the most important agencies in the country, so it is important that there is a problem with police planning. According to measurements, the police have been asking a lot of trust for years and will be told only that it survived, and that, one by the other, has brought relief to all the police work. It is important to maintain that trust. We must not allow today's situation to be silenced by joining the voices that speak for the dramatic, dramatic organizational changes made by the police. Only less than five years have there been significant changes in the district of the police where they were grown and decreased from half a hundred to nine, while the police and county activities were also significantly changed. A few years earlier, extensive organizational adjustments had taken place. According to the president of the National Association of Police Officers, change rates are high in the police department and are not improving by this time and perhaps. this is one reason why we have witnessed the events we have seen. Another factor is that projects that have been carried out by the State Marshal have overlapd with many of the police reforms in the country, which is one of the causes of the turmoil. I don't think there's any material to get into the police planning changes and not go into them lightly. Any criticism of the police has no purpose except to detract from them and to reduce confidence in the police, and men have to understand their responsibility in these matters. It is my opinion that this case can't be resolved any longer because most of it is damaged by the police in the country, and we can't afford it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u13	A respectable president. Yesterday, I was frustrated and angry with others because of the labor interest in micropigs. Today, I feel hurt and frustrated because we don't guarantee the poor who have their right to know their rights. In the 9th. Social Security Act says that the government's insurance agency should provide public services and counselling on rights and obligations in accordance with the Community laws - counseling on rights - and presenting its rights to the public with information. There is a dark committee of government insurance agencies that can eliminate unreasonable and absurd demands for reimbursement, as it has already done in some 80 cases, which were involved in the development of tractors. But people out there don't know any of these things. Nor do they know because they can be distributed once, just once, for ten years. The budget is 98,000. ... ofthecharitors. In ten years, we are talking about a million. People don't know, either, because the government tax manager can put it back in time for six years. But what may be absurd about all of this is that the distribution of 10 years at the State Insurance Institute is only once. You can only do that with one thing. I can't believe they're available for these people - I've made a brief survey with people out there fighting - and there's an example that people have to pay 100,000 dollars. In medicine, doctors, ambulances, who came to the emergency room and can't afford dental work, they can't afford clothing, they don't even have clothes. These same people don't get information from the state insurance agency on their rights. I ask, "Why are we making laws here if we can't see to it that people are getting that information for real time and that right now? " [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u14	A respectable president. I come up here for a while. A senator, but I have to speak in effect only as a public citizen who has lived in the country more or less since birth. Our republic has issues called the Geirphins and Gudmunds, which cut deep into my heart as a citizen of this country. I feel like they're scrambling all the citizens of this country very deep. Skarphéðinsson's Guðjón - fearing son is a man who sat innocent in custody for 1,202 days. Some 40 years later, these horrible things have finally been cut off. Now that Skarphéðinsson's Guðjón seeks error and damage, a state attorney says: "No, nothing. " He's not supposed to get any benefits because, in part, it's his own fault. I feel that these wounds may have begun to heal, hopefully, after the last Supreme Court hearing to justify these people. But this horrible lesson remains in this disgusting matter. It's how the judiciary system, the legal state of Iceland failed, how Icelandic society failed, the media, the public, the voters and members, judges, lawyers and police officers failed the phenomenon. It's not just Skarphéðinsson's son Goddess, or the other defendants, who were acquitted as victims of the Geronus and Guðmundles. It is the state of justice itself, that is, the idea that we have access to courts, and it is possible that fairness will finally find out the day. I think it's the highest. U.S. Marshal, highest. The prime minister and other ministers, members of Parliament, and Icelandic society should keep in mind the following steps in these unpleasant matters. [[The president calls.]] Of course, if we are to maintain our respect for the legal government, the legal Kingdom itself must be able to shoulder the responsibility to demonstrate that it is trustworthy in righteousness. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u15	Mr. President. I must admit that I would like to call to bed while reading a newly published United Nations International Commission report on climate change. More than 100 scientists from 80 countries came to the report. Of course, reading is shocking and even debilitating. As tempting as it is to give up, there is nothing more to the situation than that mankind pursues even more ambitious goals and follows them with even more drastic measures. I was hoping to have the highest. The prime minister would introduce the ambitious actions of Iceland at the UN summit, which was conducted on Monday, appoint Iceland into the advance force in the battle against the climate, but unfortunately she missed that opportunity. Few nations should be more conscious than Icelands of the importance of the sea, and how disappointed we are that we will not take in more ambitious research and action when it comes to doing so! The sea is sour and hot. Marine waves are killing coral reefs, sea forests, and other important microorganisms. Whole ecosystems are threatened, even dying. In the future, global warming is not a distant threat, not even just around the corner. Already people are losing their home, jobs, and even losing their lives themselves - maybe not here in Iceland, not yet, but the effects are quite obvious to us. It is a common assignment for all mankind, and we, the rich nations, cannot fail to follow the lead. Mr. President. There won't be any small-dose cures here. We cannot prevent these disasters without making fundamental changes in the world's economy. We need to act now, or we'll lose in this race.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u16	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland Land for the speech earlier. That's exactly the kind of politics I want to pursue, since we come in defense across line lines. At noon, a press conference on the agreement of the state with local societies was held in the capital area. There was, in effect, nothing about the agreement itself except to explain which transport projects are being developed and to be used before a transport program is established. It comes out of the hat a round of about 60 billion that is supposed to be in the form of roads and so on. The game is in progress for some kind of black-seat game to determine who is responsible for bringing in tax charges. I think it's interesting. I felt quite clear at this meeting this morning that no tax would be taken without the permission of the council. After all, whether it will be a tribute or not is the decision of the council. No one can sign any agreement in the city and say, "It's just gonna have to be like that. " In the end, it is the council that has to be made and found. Yet, the only reconciliation I can see is the need to take on these transport projects in the capital area and that they need to be financed, no matter what. I have no idea how anyone would think of it as a paradox agreement to finance necessary transportation. If there's anything anyone would say, it's just gonna have to be revealed in a Senate Hall. There are other factors, but this is what I think is key, that we only try to look through the current black-covered drama, and we're in the wrong direction about who's responsible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u17	V.E.G. President. As shown in the case of what? paritaprevir The Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir left the General and Education Committee yesterday to Akureyri and visited high school and college there. It was a very helpful visit, and it is clear that both schools use the latest smart tools available, thus reducing costs and making financial gains to both teachers and students. We also received a good education at an ELC, and I think we should be covering the activity there. We also meet with the police in the north of the country, and there certainly is a very important work in very difficult working conditions, I allow myself to say, the building is long gone. I knew that the police were narrow enough to end up over 40 years old, but I didn't know it was that bad. It's kind of striking. For instance, one Special Forcer is located in Akureyri, and his work space is in the basement of the police station. Granted, it is time to leave Reykjavík north when necessary, but the circumstances arise that a person must respond quickly and that is hardly a time to wait for the late flight. We also received thought - provoking comments from a 19 - year - old who had to drive all the way to Húsavík to attend the services we would like to attend. A scribe also mentioned that he had not seen for many years so many members of the council come to him and take an interest in his work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u18	A respectable president. I would like to say a few words about the agreement that has been under discussion today and the last few days and that has to do with the development of transportation in the capital area. It has now been reported that the six transport ministers and local communities in the capital area will sign this contract tomorrow. These are the ways of the Treaty to implement about 120 billion, of which over 100 billion will be derived from the state in one way or another, either through the financing of the transport programme or through a cut-off fee that will not be imposed or charged with the establishment of the General Assembly. I'd like to describe a surprising reminder that the environmental and transport committees have not been allowed to see the existing negotiations, even if they had been committed to confidentiality. It's a hide-and-seek with this case that you suspect is best explained by the minister's fear of being made back again, once again, with the agreements, if they get general discussions before signing the contract. Of course, it is not acceptable that the Ministers intend to sign an agreement in this town tomorrow that obliges us in one way or another to ensure more than 100 billion for transportation, important transportation projects, I will not detract, without the matter being discussed materially, neither in the council nor in the Environmental and Transport Committee. It was last requested that the environmental and transport committee be introduced, the specific date, which is rejected in line with another information flow in this case. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity to criticize it severely, but I hope this will not be the rule below.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u19	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct measures for Britain's discharge from the European Union and the European Economic Area. The bill was submitted to the General Assembly last spring, but it couldn't be scheduled. It's almost all the same now. Its leading is, of course, well known. On June 23, 2016, more of the British voters voted by Britain's departure from the European Union. As a result, on March 29, 2017, Britain's government reported on the history of Britain from the European Union. In November of last year, the British and European Union began a negotiation of how to get out of the country and deal with them. That contract, however, has proved to be controversial in Britain. The contract has repeatedly been signed under votes in the British Parliament's lower division but not by a track gang. Britain should have left the European Union on March 29, 2018, but Britain's government has twice requested to delay an outing in an effort to gain support for more of the British Parliament's foreign contract. In April. The European leaders decided to postpone the United States's eviction to October 31nd. and the position of the British government is leaving the European Union that day. However, the development of a further discharge beyond 31 October cannot be excluded, as has now been the case. Therefore, it is important that the Icelandic government continue to respond to various scenarios and is an important factor in this work. A respectable president. It was clear from the fact that the decision in the Treaty was before the summer of 2016 that Britain's exit from the European Union would have a significant impact here on the country. In the power of its involvement in the European Union, Britain is a member of the EEA Treaty and another of the contracts that Iceland has made with the EU. When that membership is completed, these contracts no longer accept Britain. Britain is one of our major business nations, our neighboring kingdom, and it draws us close in many ways. As a result, it has been a priority for the Icelandic government to ensure continued close ties and good economic standing with Britain after the British eviction from the EU. This goal is even reflected in the Treaty of the Government, which required careful attention to Iceland's interests in the United Kingdom's resignation from the European Union. Of course, Britain's exits from the European Union will mark a turning point and will call for Iceland and Britain to define their future partnerships in treaties. However, before a discussion of future relations with Britain can begin, the first step is to replace Britain's eviction from the European Union and the European Economic Area. Thus, the last loss of the government's activities has been focused on living in favor of Britain's espionage, with the advantage of ensuring that the important interests of Iceland, Icelandic citizens and Icelandic companies are not going to the courtyards when Britain is no longer a member of the EU. The basis for this work consists of detailed diagnostic work done in cooperation with all the Directorates of the Management Board, as well as regular consultation with the State Department. At the same time, further consultations with business stakeholders, labour markets, and other markets have been made in more detail about the vast interests of our dealings with Britain. Without question, the long - term uncertainty that has existed over the time and how Britain's eviction from the European Union has made its mark on this preparation. In the United Kingdom, whether on the basis of Britain's eviction agreement and the EU or without a contract, it has been emphasized by the government. As a result, we have joined forces with Norway and Liechtenstein in making two treaties with Britain. First, in the beginning of December, the concluded contract was made that reflects the details of the United Kingdom and the EU eviction Convention that directly affects us. This contract has not yet been signed, but the fate of the United Kingdom and EU eviction agreement remains uncertain. Our agreement with Britain ensures that we will sit at the same level as the EU Member States will eventually agree that the outing agreement will be agreed. Secondly, April 2 was signed. A contract aimed at ensuring the rights of citizens of Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein living in Britain and of the British citizens living in these countries will lead to Britain leaving the European Union without a contract. In addition to these two contracts, the date of April 2 was also signed. Iceland and Norway's agreement with Britain, which ensures the same customs as they now come to an exit without a contract. It should be emphasized that these three treaties are merely measuring out the necessary measures for Britain's eviction. In order to ensure the most important interests in this sector, the rights of the citizens for continued living and employment and the importance of maintaining tolls for a while is the highest priority. This means that only bridges the gap between Britain leaving the European Union and until a future partnership between Iceland and Britain will be established, but Britain will only initiate formal negotiations with the EU and other countries for future relations after an outing. A respectable president. For a long time, it has been clear that Britain's exits from the EU and the EEA would require legal adjustments and start working at the State Department for its bill immediately thereafter. A fall. The preparation and construction of this bill has been carried out under very unusual circumstances, where uncertainty about what the United Kingdom will eventually pass out of the European Union has created a number of unpredictable concerns. This bill was submitted in almost the same costume. spring, but they didn't talk about them. When the bill was submitted, there was uncertainty as to whether Britain will escape the European Union on the basis of a contract, or without a contract, and now, when the bill is submitted a second time, the same uncertainty about this point remains. Therefore, the bill as early as the above forms, i.e. for the inclusion of the exits on the basis of an existing washout contract or for the development of Britain from the EU without a contract. The main focus of this bill is this: First, the bill recommends the Aldus warrant to confirm the agreement of Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein with Britain on the basis of a contract and, on the other hand, a contract of the above states due to the rights of the citizens, a march without a contract. Clearly, only one of these agreements will become valid because they are designed to form two different scenarios. It is important, however, that we have the prerogative to confirm the individual contract when it becomes clear which one will actually be used. Second, it recommends the status of Britain in this country during a so - called lead-in period. It should be emphasized that the adaptation period will only occur if Britain's exits are based on a contract. In the lead-in period, Britain continues to maintain the position of EU Member States until the end of 2020, although its involvement has been formally completed and the British no longer have a session within the EU institutions. It should be emphasized that treaties between Britain and the European Union in the context of passage will only be valid between Britain and the EU and will not bind other countries. However, it can be expected that this will be the case with the EU and the British who request to continue giving Britain the same positions as EU Member States will enjoy on the basis of agreements that are relevant between the EU and the Member States. Of course, on the part of Iceland it is a duty to give this position to Britain, and in the United Kingdom, the Icelandic people will enjoy the same rights during such a lead-in period. However, this calls for a law code and is therefore recommended in the bill. Third, the bill outlines changes in the laws of foreigners, the legal rights of foreigners and the laws of law for the implementation of the above agreements in the country. These legislation is aimed at ensuring British citizens living on this land the rights to which they are guaranteed by the above agreements and measuring further into the arrangement that these contracts recommend, such as registration and publication of the IDs. Fourth and final, the bill recommends changes in the terms of stock exchange laws, which are intended to maintain certain requirements of the law for which Britain will proceed from the EU without a contract. This gives the law a permit for a set discharge from financial law to be made to Britain from the EU without a contract. A respectable president. As I learned about the plans of the British government to leave the European Union on October 31th. With this bill, we are prepared to meet the exit and ensure the most important interests, whether Britain comes out of the European Union on the basis of its agreement with the European Union or without a contract. At the same time, the State Department's opinion, based on close cooperation with the British government, is that although Britain and the EU would negotiate certain changes in the outing agreements, this would not affect the agreements available between Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway on the other hand and Britain. Therefore, there is no reason to wait for the results of the discussions between Britain and the EU. It is very important that this bill receive a course and be adopted in time, particularly in view of the fact that it will probably not be explained until very shortly before the arrival of a travel date on what conditions Britain's EU exits will be and whether they will be on October 31st. or later. A respectable president. I have now explained the key elements of the bill and suggested that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. Foreign Affairs and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u20	Mr. President. The reason for this matter seems sad to me. The case is, like, the highest. A minister said, perhaps more complicated than that, since it is impossible to tell what smells are going to come from Brits or treaties - the European Union and quite correct that it is dangerous to wait until the last minute, since it is not known if it will be resolved until then. Not long ago. A minister of the State spoke of the potential for passage from the EU by the then British minister Boris Johnsons, who spoke of the British foreign minister's going through a most exciting time of transformation. Of course, these opportunities are now spoken less of and in the exciting times of the British world. I hope they succeed, no matter how things smell. But there is more to political confusion and economic instability. The last few months have, so you say it just as it is, drawing out the worst side of the council of our best friends. We haven't been through much of it. We've had to wear our toes. The direct expenses of the Ministry of State on Baltrexit have been about 30 billion. K. This year, reminds me of the last few years to achieve the contract we are going to discuss and to guarantee the rights of Icelandic citizens and corporations and, in fact, British citizens here. Therefore, measures are being taken to ensure an acceptable position, to leave the British, with or without a contract. If the British were to leave the European Union without a curfew, Iceland could be among the countries that lose most of it, according to a report, except for the British itself. According to the World Bank, Bfenit could translate 0.5% of the decrease in the national production of an area. At least I welcome this vital and vital step. Because of the way out, I'm sure I'm taking the necessary steps, thanks to the highest degree. Foreign Minister for the work he and the State Department personnel have done in the past few months. There's good reason for that. Of course, it's easy to be unappreciative and boring that Iceland didn't have a bigger contract and a better-to-progorative income, but I don't think that's anything Iceland could do about it. Britain is in an extremely difficult situation, and it is understandable that this has not been opened up. I encourage ministers to remain in good contact with this society of our friends and an important business nation, that I do not talk about all the good cultural relationships we have with them. I believe that it is important for a minister to speed up a future agreement as possible because I believe that this is, from what is now, rather a matter of how the British get out of the European Union than whether, in the last few moments, I have hoped for another vote that would have been on real options, on the other hand, a contract and a way out. I'm starting to lose my outlook on it. I think, Mr. President, at the end of the story we should use this case, i.e. not the bill but the Biffit case, as a reminder that it is dangerous when political leaders play with the shoreline and even the future of an entire nation in a group of cavalistic purposes and to calm waves. I think we should also use it as a reminder that this is not the way to go, to build walls around our own borders, to isolate ourselves, to break free from cooperation, and to attempt to achieve two-way communication. We face such challenges as climate change, poverty, global warfare, growing civil conflicts, and the fact that we have no alternative but to converge our lines and continue to promote international ties and cooperation. I know it's the highest. A minister of the State agrees, and I intend to finish this by thanking him again for having served as the watch for the necessary work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u21	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a warm word and an excellent speech. Yet, I wanted to correct certain misunderstandings that happened. Senator. The British must not do it, and we are not making a future deal until they have left the European Union. They don't have free business. If a nation walks in the European Union, they will leave it behind. I'm still very hoping that we'll make a good deal with the British and that we've made a great deal of it. It just keeps saying there's an opportunity. We can sit down with the British and make a future deal. It hasn't changed. I don't speak on behalf of Boris Johnson or other politicians, they have to speak for them, even if it's an alleged family connection with my wife but leave it in between. That's a joke. For what the Icelanders will lose: once they are laid out, these agreements are not expected. We're making deals and making arrangements, on the one hand, if they're going out on a contract that's not made and on the other hand, without a contract. We've made sure of our main interests. But we always made this a priority because there are so much interests at stake, as it were. A senator correctly referred to him. Since then, there can be opinions about Britain's internalisticist. However, the policy of the British government has not been building walls. On the contrary, the British have placed much emphasis on going to a more free trade than they have on the European Union at the European Business Places. I think it is safe to state that the reason the so-called May deal has not gone through is because it was not guaranteed that they could do it without the approval of the European Union. I couldn't agree more. A senator of everything he says about the importance of reaching a good future agreement, and we will work hard to do so in cooperation, including the following: ... atwhat. State Department. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u22	Mr. President. I'm not going to do Boris's words at all. Secretary of state. I saw the pictures of them a year ago, lying down to me anyone who wants to, but I felt that they were almost one and that they were the same man, and then they parted. Fortunately, the highest. Rather, our minister of foreign affairs is turning on my opinions. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I just disagree with the way the British seem to want to push forward. I believe we have opinions about the internal affairs of other nations. Of course, we're not supposed to say something that we're not allowed to do, but I think we live in a reality where all the nations have to wonder what their neighbors are doing. It's so important that we talk about this as I pointed out that the decision of the national law was that when you look at the breakdown, e.g. by their age, they are the young people who are left with a future they did not ask for at all. It is sobering for us to wonder if we should not listen a little and take into consideration the viewpoints that young people hold up. Closely, then, there is the climate and the emphasis that young people feel we need to put into it. I hope it hasn't got misunderstood before, at least. Secretary of State, that I realize that the British had no opportunity to negotiate a longer future or to make greater contracts, and I thought our people were doing a really good job.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u23	A respectable president. These are the days of the unexpected events of the council Hall in my case. Last time I was here, I was like a lady, and now I'm just like Boris Johnson. I don't know if I'm afraid to listen to any more speeches, but I'm not gonna take this seriously. However, we can discuss this in general. I think it's a good partnership in British politics and Icelandic when it comes to climate and I haven't heard any other tone about it. Without telling me about a few things in British politics, I hope that there is a good agreement on what they have been offering up for an increased vacation shop in the world. It was, for example. One of the main criticisms of the European Union in the Bgret election that it had not been put in the first place for a vacation store. Happily, Britain has, and I hope most countries will remain there, stressing to strengthen and promote the international business system and the International Business Organization. I think it's coming back to us for not having done it, especially those nations that should be in charge there. We have something to do with our voice, for it is important and important. I'm worried that there's something going on with international business in the world. Isolationism has become much more prominent than ever before. It has been tried, not for decades, but for hundreds of years, to build customs and isolate itself in the hope that it will provide something for the economy of the countries. It's never worked out, and it's never gonna work out. But whatever people think of individual politicians and political parties in Britain, I certainly hope we agree that the tone of international exchange and opening of markets is something we like. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u24	Mr. President. I prefer to say it so that we should have much more contact with one another. Then there's business in that kind of relationship because it's not just about gasoline, cigarettes, and whiskey, we also need to try to share humanitarian ideologies and keep carrying the message. I think at free market agreements between two countries, it might be more questionable for a small country like Iceland to rely on them too much. The British, at the power of their strength, are expected to expect more out of such cooperation than we do. I think we'll be better off in larger units, and I think it's extremely important that Europe takes its place in the world in which we live now when the conflict is not between two poles but is ever and ever changing. Think chess. It is simple enough to understand the game and think many games in the past when two people are playing but think if four or six or eight were playing, and one game would affect not only the other one, but the other. That's the world today. To that end, I wish for the British success of a journey they would never have made. Perhaps my weak hope is realized that something amazing will happen, and the British people will again be given the opportunity to make a decision: Do they want to be on the table, or do they want to stay in the environment they are? Not as if they were forced to do, choosing between no cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u25	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for a fine talk on this bill to set up measures for British exits from the European Union and the European Economic Areas. First, I'd like to say that the matter has been kept pretty well under way that I think from foreign service and ministers and men have tried to make as much money before a riot or an accident that can always happen when such a big project is ahead of us. At the same time, however, you must allow yourself to say that it is quite different to see how the British themselves have handled the situation. It has not been possible to arrange matters so that both Congress and nation can be responsible for the decision made by the nation. It is amazing to hear members of Congress, whether in Iceland or Britain, say that the nation must make another decision, the right choice. As the nation decided to go this way, it is a little strange to see members of the United Kingdom try to do against the people's will. At the same time, it is clear to see such a powerful phenomenon that the European Union is trying to make it as difficult for the British as it can be to break this relationship. It makes you wonder, " What kind of relationship is going on here? ' What is the purpose of the European Union? Is that not in order to respect the wishes of the states and the will of those who are elected to work or sit within the relationship? Is this some sort of self - centered beast that actually does just what it wants? I think the problem is two-way, there's trouble at home in Britain, and there's an inexhaustible crisis on the European Union against the British. As a result, it is more important than ever that Iceland's position is well maintained when it comes to breaking up and keeping the cards well in place when it comes to our future cooperation with the British. It is not enough that the British are one of our greatest business people, they are also our neighbors and our allies. Of course, things have been going on in the past, as we know when it comes to the British - not always sunshine and gentle relations. It is part of being in the international community, and we have nothing to flee from it. But we have far more interest in the British than we can against them. That's exactly what I think the European Union also has, it has far more interest in working with the British, solving these matters instead of trying to get in the way of anything they can think of. It's been a little strange watching this case at the time it's taken. It must be said as it is that it gets curious, I'm not gonna say it's a thrill, but it's a little exciting, to see how things develop over the next few weeks and months, how the locals, I'm gonna let myself say, they're gonna work out. Of course, it's hard to stand in a relationship like this, or disappear from such an alliance, if the band at home is, I want to say as they say in the country, like hens on a dump, men flying in every direction, and I don't know where they're headed. I think British governments failed to get people and politics behind them. At the same time, they have a heavy responsibility in Britain, who have done all they can to put a stone in the streets of the British'honors out of the confusion of the European Union. A respectable president. One thing is clear after all: If Iceland wasn't ever going to walk in the European Union, it is now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u26	President. I did not necessarily intend to participate in these discussions, but I did have a few questions. A senator said that I was interested in him, since I share his interest in international affairs. I don't have the experience of being a minister of foreign affairs, yet, at least. [[Take it up, take it easy, take it easy, take it easy, take it easy, ……]] If Boris Johnson has become a surrogate minister of the Iceland State Department, maybe I'll just find out if the mansion is getting hot. But it was what it was like. A senator described the European Union's view of British eviction, which attracted my attention. May it be the figurative language. A senator used the European Union or the questions he raised. I wanted to pray. The senator to explain in his comments what caused the European Union to do everything possible to prevent British exits.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u27	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the question. I want to wonder at what. A senator whether I'm correct about the fact that the European Union has established a set of conditions, kind of, in regard to border control, to name one example. Is it not so that they have put emphasis on the fact that the British actually accept the advantages they have set in business, social freedom, etc.? At the Commission, we have not received much overview of the EU's precise requirements but, of course, have had to look for them. In fact, we have received memos where the interviews have been conducted but only by observing, for example, European websites that deal with these issues you can see exactly what the requirements are. We have also been able to look up and see the waves that have been submitted. It's my feeling that there's a man out there who's using an indiscretion. In the European Union, when Britain's prime minister decides not to get involved with Luxembourg's prime minister, what makes Luxembourg's prime minister? He talks down to his colleagues, demeans him. I don't like it, but maybe it's only normal in these countries. That's how I experience it, huh? Senator, I'm pointing, for example. on the border watch and the whole thing, trying to make it as difficult as possible. But it will not be taken away from the British that the problem may be at home first, and so did I in my speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u28	Madam President. I thank the senator, even though I must admit that I feel that what was listed here does not necessarily depend on the claim presented in the Sermon on the Mount. A senator on the European Union. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: Does he believe that the European Union should not have an opinion on how its borders are handled? In this case, the border may be made to be a mother of two states, sometimes more. Counts 'em out. A senator that, considering the opinion of the European Union on how their borders are being placed in the British street? In fact, there are British people who are trying to negotiate that these borders are relevant to special rules, to some extent the rules that apply today, but they generally do not apply between countries, unless there are special contracts. That's what I'm talking about. A senator disagrees with this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u29	A respectable president. I think it's clear to everyone that in order for the border to work and any part of it to come up with a special agreement because Ireland's border between Northern Ireland and Ireland is not a normal border, so to speak, in the light of history and all of this. I don't know that the European Union did not listen to any of the British when it was due. That's just what I'm pointing at.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u30	Is there a contract with Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u31	Mr. President. I'm in a place similar to the one I took for granted. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé. But I completely agree with what. A senator, we are to approach one another with respect, and people should not speak down to other people. I'm not going to justify the words of this fine man from Luxembourg that I can't remember the office, but I think it was on both sides. We're gonna go for a second. A member of each body of elders is well acquainted with the phenomenon of marriage, of getting married, and of sharing rights and responsibilities, and of all that, and then of 20, 30 or 40%, they do not work out, and people go their separate ways. This, at best, leads people to keep talking, to associating with their children in a reasonably peaceful manner. At worst, it will not work, but it will always have some effect. This will not be so that people maintain all their rights. The British could not expect them to walk out of the European Union and maintain all their rights. I don't know where this hostility is going, and I'd like to get an accurate view of it by then. A senator in what aspects of the European Union has shown some special indiscretion. With regard to the border, it's a very complex thing because we have a country in the European Union, and then we have another one that isn't. The Brits themselves have not been able to provide a solution to this matter during the negotiation. I'm asking why. A senator, and he may now be able to resolve the whole issue: What is the solution to the border dispute?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u32	A respectable president. I don't think it's right that the British didn't come up with a solution. I also have to admit that I'm not in the hope of offering that solution. I agree with what. Of course, a senator with Britain's potential for getting everything for nothing. They could not assume to maintain all the rights they had, have absolute freedom of business, or how they have it, but at the same time perhaps denied that certain parts of the business should be done, etc. It is quite clear that in Britain there were and are people who have, I think, had way too much expectations of what could be done and what could not be done. My opinion is that if you had men - and it's best to have both parties - come to the table with all reasonableness, they would have been able to resolve this. The experience is, of course, that men may not have worked hard enough on the European side to solve British problems, but they are also homelike, as I think they are. A senator noted in his talk earlier today. There is trouble at home in Britain that has had a big impact on all this unpleasant situation. For us, it is also of great importance that foreign service, with the traveling minister, continue to try to work out countries as the best agreements with the British, provided for any dangers there, so that we, as well as Icelandic citizens, continue to attend the rights we have so far had.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u33	Mr. President. As I can see, the British have come to this very conclusion just as the man who is going to walk to the bushes and take only the best berries, but they've set it for him to have the bush with everyone else in the neighborhood. I find the European Union very farfetched to blame primarily for the problems that exist today, as it is known that Britain's former prime minister has entered a house with a contract that has repeatedly been signed by the British Parliament. The modern prime minister of Britain has directly attended the assembly, which was, in fact, condemned illegally. There is no hope that they will succeed in these negotiations when they do not seem to know for themselves how they want to manage matters, customs freedom, freedom of toll, borders, or borders. It seems to me that they were picking out blueberries and that they were just picking some of the blueberries. But that's never gonna work out. You get a bag full, some good, other acid, it's just gonna have to have it. Of course, a man in the longest law hopes that everything will be blessed. I say again that I sincerely hope that something very unexpected will happen, making it possible for us to receive another vote. But I'm disappointed because I had considerable hopes for it. A senator would have worked out the Irish border that no one else would have found.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u34	A respectable president. Let us not rule it out, if you would concentrate on it, that such a thing might happen. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But I wouldn't guarantee the conclusion. Although we disagree on many things, I think it's safe to say that you're right. A senator, of course, that the British had quite a delay in this discussion. It's also not quite fair to say, in some respects, that they could take the best, but not the other. But I'm not backing up any of the demands that I think they may have met an overwhelming resistance, and to them there were high standards, e.g. On the border, which is known to be extremely delicate. Although I have not found the solution, we know completely that it is a key issue for both parties, i.e. Both the Irish and the British, that it should be successful. I know that when a foreign business committee visited Britain, we discussed this very matter, and it was a bit much so that our shoulders would just get over what it was like. However, at the same time, the British have proposed some ideas that the European Union and likely the Irish have not been pleased with. It has been tried to point out other ways, although we have not been able to solve it at the Icelandic council. But I feel that all of this process highlights what I said at the end of my speech, that people need to think deeply about when walking in the European Union that we hope never do. I find it very difficult to tell people today that we can always stop because men can't quit so easily.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u35	A respectable president. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. Councilmen for a good discussion. My opinion is that a little foreign discussion is becoming more and better at the council halls, and I think it's very sensible. It is important for us to pay close attention to what happens elsewhere and be aware of what we have, for example. largely under international law and international relations. It sounds like a combination to me. I must admit that when I listened to a verbal exchange of things. paritaprevir Gunnar Sveinsson Sveinnsson. paritaprevir Logi Már Einarsson - and I thank them both for warm words in front of foreign service and signing - I began to wonder how lucky we are. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] We were the right people at the right place when the EEA deal was made. I don't have to agree fully with everything that comes from it. Einarsson Már, as a small nation in EFTA, have access to our largest market, which is the EU market, through the EEA, which gives us many rights but at the same time we can do business with all the nations we deal with. We have a business freedom that is of utmost importance to us Icelanders. We can compare our commodities with everyone, pointing out that it's very good. We were just now through EFTA, setting up a business deal with Indonesia and Mercosur and, of course, have a very powerful business network. May we be successful in our two - sided relationship, e.g. of the United States and Japan and other countries That's what we're gonna do. Because we are a small nation. There is also the advantage of being a small nation. There's no one afraid of a little nation. Once there's been a business deal with Iceland, there's no one at home, no matter what country it is, who's thinking, I will never forget when I went to Malaysia with the EFTA Parliamentary Committee and we met members of that country with two flags, the maszie flag and the EU flag. Whether signed to see the EU flag was very happy, but it was taken down immediately and explained that we were not in the European Union at all. They were very heavy when we met, but they came to life. It was a very different thing to deal with these four nations, because they have been warned about big nations and big business antagonists, but there is no fear of Iceland. We should try to take advantage of it. I also think we should learn from the Bgret procedure. I'm not going to go to court on who's to blame. However, it is quite certain when it comes to the European Union that it takes care of its interests, which may seem natural to humans. One important point was that the British kept paying for some time because the British pay so much, like if Iceland went in, we would pay very much. The relationship saw a very serious situation if the British would stop immediately and deal with them. At the same time, the relationship is to think that it does not want to set an example in order for others to go out. That's for sure. Of course, there are also voices in the European Union that worry that if the British take a very large business deal on the world, it harms the competitive position of companies in the European Union. We've not only dealt with the British. We have contact with the European Union and the EFTA countries, and it's all known and I'm not saying anything about it. For national and European relations European cooperation is stratified. It's not just the EU. Some countries are in the EU, others are not, some are in the EEA, others are not, some are in EFTA, some are not, some are in NATO and others are not, some are in Schengen, others are not. Happily, though, national boundaries are still open, although not all countries are in the same states. Switzerland is, for example, not in the EU and not in the EEA. There is no problem on the border between Switzerland and the European Union. Norway and Sweden, one of the countries is in the EU and the other is in the EEA. There's no problem there. You can ask yourself, " Can't they use solutions somewhere else? But I'm not gonna go in there and I've got enough on my mind, and you just say the bloodless prayer when things come up? ' But we have stressed from day one to all of these that if there are business barriers in Europe, it will have a bad effect on everyone. Everybody's gonna lose that. We'll lose that, too. If our friends in Europe place some type of customs or technical barriers between them, it will harm their economy, and this will not affect us well because we have much to do with their success. They buy from us both goods and services, and it is absolutely possible for us to succeed. It is true that we have seen it, both in the middle of the night. paritaprevir The Logi, the fireMár the son of Einarsson. paritaprevir Gunnar Sveinsson, the fact that we are in good relations with the British is of vital importance. It is in the best interests of both, and we stress that we have a good future with them. It is true that if we approach them in the hundreds of years that our cooperation has been very good, but we also have examples of dark days in the relations of the nations, to the extent that the years have been cut off. Hv. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson set up another vote. It's a matter of democracies for all of us. If humans always maintain a new vote on the same subject, how will it affect the democracy? What if there were other votes in Britain and they were going the same way as the first? Should the third be held? I think that one of the things that undermined the European Union is that it has been found that once national pay has already been made and the result has not been in the interests of those who are being put on the table, the situation has been changed slightly and driven until the result is impossible for those who support the European Union. I don't think it had a good effect and gave birth to public distrust in the political and official class. I'm not taking a stand on individual matters at any given time, but I think we need to think about it because we're looking at a lack of confidence in the political class and the public class all over the world, including the U.S. correspondent in Europe This has proved true many times, so we need to think about it. I'm not hiding that no matter what people think of whether the British are supposed to be in the European Union or not, who should be in the European Union, Iceland or anyone else, they know my opinion in it, there can never be said again that it's no problem to walk in the European Union, where we would just go out if we didn't like it. No one can say. Britain is the fifth largest economic power in the world, and the European Union that sells more to Britain than Britain to the European Union is very much dependent on this interaction, e.g. in the business field, good luck. Still, we are in this position. It wouldn't have been easy if we had ever gone in and said, "It's okay, we're gonna pop out again. To me, it's also clear, and confirmed, including by observing the Biffit case, that we were completely right on time when the great EFTA - because it was a big one - made up with the European Union on the EEA Convention. Hv. A senator mentioned that we cannot just take the best. I believe we have done so by being in the EEA. There are certain things to debate, but the more you look at them, especially in the light of the options, the more obvious it is that there is no doubt that we were very fortunate at that time. We were in cooperation with the EFTA nations when certain nations joined the organization, in this case Sweden, Finland, and Austria, which was considered impossible when men went on their way to enter the European Union because of the Cold War and their neutrality. We were among them. We came forward what is of utmost importance. Most remarkable was that we received contributions from the four freedoms in terms of investments in the fishing road. In those 25 years, I think, at some point in Iceland, it would have been too tempting not to sell those companies. But the big thing is that it's extremely practical for us. I want to use this opportunity again, a respectable president, and thank you. Congress members who participated in the discussion felt that all of them were perfunctory and important. If all discussions were like this one in the hall, the situation would be even better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u36	Mr. President. I wanted to ask you one small question. I don't necessarily expect to have to take an answer again, but we'll see. In fact, at the beginning, I think it's quite remarkable. The minister of foreign affairs remains obsessed with the value of national pay and a reminder of national law on a constitution that still has to be supplied. Of course, the problem with this particular national pay was to vote for the present situation or some uncertainty that was even drawn up in such a false way, with so much falsehood as it has been shown, that you become reasoning. When you reflect it on the difference between young and older voters'standings, it actually becomes more unpleasant. I'm sick of never communicating with other nations except on vacations and business dealings. Of course, we need communication in culture, art, and various other fields, but these are important. But I don't think we should be thinking it's crazy enough that we're so small that no one's afraid of us because of the fact that these things have nothing to do. I hope they do not go out on the violence of the great one to the little one. I understand the highest. The minister of foreign affairs, so he doesn't think there's much chance that he's going to be able to go to an Icelandic belt and runway here. We realize where we are. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister finally: It is quite true that the European Union is likely to consider some of the condemned ones when it makes this agreement with Britain and fairness and anything else, but it would be the highest. Ministers will be happy if the British went out and followed by a better businessman than the EEA and Iceland? How would he react to them?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u37	A respectable president. I followed the Bgretto speech quite carefully back then and then the election. I think that if we go fair over the way that the compromise was done in both ways, many things were said, and I recall that it was the prestigious institution of England that had to apologize for predictions they had in case the British agreed to leave. It was announced that if they agreed to go out, emergency laws would be passed, so to speak. Other things were said in the heat of the game, but luckily they did not. Then there are always debates about who was more wrong or how men were acting. But we will, too, a respectable president, after every election in Iceland, if I remember correctly. I agree with what. A senator's concern is that it's not just about a vacation store, but because he named the little nation, I was referring to the pros and cons of it. I've said something like that. that everyone has a lot to do with international law, but especially with Iceland, including Because we are a small nation. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. We can't threaten anyone or anything. A senator can be quite quiet that I'm not preparing any Icelandic belt and track. We're in a hurry. In this regard, if the British got a better business than the Europeans, it is such, more respected, that one of the things I'm trying to do is to go to the European Union to a better business, and especially to what is involved in sea products. If it were to happen between the United Kingdom and the European Union, I think it would strengthen our position in what it meant, to be able to point out such an example. I don't think we'll lose if anyone else increases his business, especially our closest partners. But I don't get tired of it and will never tire of maintaining Iceland's interests, and I don't feel that the European Union is doing the right thing when it comes to e.g. Our business with a fishing road. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u38	Mr. President. I can't cool myself to come back up because I can't accept it to the highest. Secretary of State talks about the debate and campaign that took place in the leading of the Bgret election as something that happened in the heat of the game. We are dealing with a completely new reality when interest groups, organizations, use the technology of algorithms to collect information, influence our behavior, or influence the voters who would not have chosen. Whether the falsehood was always another way or not is a serious thing. There I am not convinced, and I am not arguing. But it also came out, apart from the way people played with the personal information of people, the claims from Britain's current prime minister of enormous sums of money that would flow into the health system during an outing that was not available. V.E.G. Secretary of State spoke of paying money into the relationship and we're paying money into this partnership. I could say that to the highest, too. Secretary of State: I went and paid for the money at the Melatu, $3,500. Yesterday, 2,000K. Last day, 5,000 bucks. Saturday, but it has to follow the story that I got chicken and milk and soda and other things. You see, we also get things back, and the British have certainly received something back from their cooperation with the European Union. This too must be kept in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u39	A respectable president. True, this hangs with what those who wanted to walk out would refer to an increase in the amount of money, e.g. in the health system, and this is something that everyone can look up, e.g. On the Internet, it is published every year on what countries are paying themselves to the European Union. Britain spends tremendous amounts of money in the European Union. Of course they'll get them back, too. But if we take the net number, the British will pay huge cash in. It is now one of the European Union's missions to find a flat surface on how to close the hole. It's, if I remember correctly, about 10% net, not the bridge. I know it's paid in and it's coming out, but I'm talking about net. It is estimated that countries like the North, Britain, Germany, and France are the most expensive payingers. The Spaniards were the first time I think last year of combing in, they've always got a net out. [[Up front.]] It's just the situation. Then I'm not going to go over and evaluate who went further on collecting personal information or anything like that. Britain is a developed democracies, and in this, there are great accusations against it, and I trust them to handle those matters. I wanted to mention, too, because of it. A senator pointed out that if the British got a better business deal, one of the points we've been pointing out in our case against the European Union is that free trade agreements have been made with Japan and Canada, where they have a full-of-the-fage shop. We have about a full vacation store, but it has to be closed for a while, I think, that's my opinion, and we'll follow through on this, so there's an example. But I appreciate it. A senator and other members of Parliament before the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u40	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a bill to correct the change in earth law, No. 81/2004, with later changes (parallel of rural society). Transporters, along with those who stand here, are why. Councilmen Anna Kolbrún of the Year's Árnadóttir, Bergþór Ólason, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Páll Sigurður Gunnlaugsson, and Jónsson. In 1st. says: ...after the 27th C.E. The law's coming up with a new article, 27. a, as well as a heading, as follows: It's your country partner's prenuptial right. A rural society has a premium of land and other property within the community that these laws apply to and intended to sell or permanently in other ways if the planned use fails to conform to the main organisation or community is required to have jurisdiction over such property to use for public activities of rural society or common uses for local society. Two. says: ▪ Following the words ◯27. ● 1 mg/m2 28th ........ Twenty-nine. and 1st. 30. g. The law comes, and the 27th. a.◯ And 3rd. says: ▪ This law already comes into effect. Mr. President. I'm just going to step back to the report. The bill suggests that the premium of rural law will be reassigned to react to the changes that have taken place on land in the recent stages. The objective is to ensure that the rural community has knowledge of the proposed land sales within its domain, and this is considered to be an advantage for both sides, i.e. The buyer of the earth and municipal society has purchased, e.g. The purpose of using which is in opposition to the ideas and plans of a local community to build up in the area. Beginning in 2004, the law on the premarital rights of society was taken away with the sentences of new earth layers, No. 81/2004, the recent trend has been in such a way that money - bearing persons, often foreigns, have purchased a number of soils with its own benefits. In many cases, such purchases have been carried out through foreign societies, making the final holding of property unclear as well as the intended use of the earth. Dissatisfaction has been the result of this trend, and it has been called a government reaction in this regard. As a result of the activation of rural rights, communities will be able to study the proposed use of the commercial buyer of the planet and how it conforms to the main community structure in which the future community's policy takes place. Based on organizational legislation, the main planning program for a specific rural society is to establish a rural policy on land use, rural development, structural development, patterns of transport and services, and the environment of the rural community. So if the planned use is not fixed up with a major organization, the local society may enter the purchase if the bill is to be legal. In addition, the premium of rural society is proposed to be active if a local society is in need of control over such property to use for its public work or common use for the inhabitants of a community. With the bill, the movers suggest that rural communities will be assured of access to information on the proposed earth plan and thereby the opportunity to respond under the direction of local interests. Mr. President. Next, I'm going to take a look at the historical feature when it comes to the premarital rights discussed here. According to the Directive of June 18, 1723, there have been laws on wedding rights in the United States since 123 C.E. It included the terms of the purchase rights of an resident living on earth. According to law No. However, 30/1905, on the prerogative rights of the rest of the workers, reached all the candidates regardless of whether they had a lifetime camp or not. The rules of premarital rights also included those of the crew who had quit their bargaining contracts and candidates who had been legally laid off on sale if the store was not completed. With law No. 30/1905, rural communities also received prenuptial rights for the right and uninhabited areas to be used for the home of the summer. With law No. 40/1919 later, rural communities received prenuptials, which held their premarital rights with the same conditions as before. Then it is with law No. 16/1926 and changing law No. 40/1919 that there are exceptions to the law of premarital rights, but according to its requirements, the landlord would not sell the land of his child, the ideal child, the foster child, a brother, a sister, or a parent. Track No. 40/1919 were then reinvented and then changed by law No. 55/1926, but by law No. 40/118, on land purchase, the changes in the terms of premarital rights were made that the candidate should only premium if he had a store for three years or longer before sales began, but otherwise the person who had the premarital rights after a rural society had to prepare. The same exceptions remained valid for the sale of family members as with law No. 65/1976 was authorized to get married before a community if they had lived ten years or more and the same exceptions as previously made for close relatives but added that those regulations also apply to marriage mates and grandchildren. Moreover, it was condition that the one preparing must prepare the earth for preparation and use. The rules for the premarital rights of a member of the country are supported by the above laws that are being used to prevent land qualified for farming in the hands of so-called land miners or other people who do not intend to take them to farms and farms otherwise, regardless of whether or what disorder it may bring to the community. Mr. President. I have merely traced the historical principles of prerogative in the earth's law and historical record to this law a long history, or since 123 C.E., as mentioned. This shows that this law has always been considered important, so it has to be considered a little special that the 2004 law is decomposed. I'll find out a little bit later. But that is true of the law on No. 81/2004, which this is taken out in Iceland as early as 1723. A few comments were made by the EFTA Institute of Monitoring, 65/1976, and considered them to violate the EEA Convention. These comments were primarily directed to the 6th floor. The law to agree both with the government and with the Committee of the Council, as mentioned, would have to be allowed to set aside the land and other real estates required by the law, that the government could bind its consent to certain conditions for dwelling, as stated in Article 11. the law that citizens who want to buy land in Iceland and use agriculture need to have worked with agriculture for two years here unless agrienvironmental ministers provide special access, and then 30 grams. The law on the prenuptial rights of a community and the State's Earth Fund. A letter published by the Agency to the United States, July 4, 2001, shows that the above laws of the earth, No. 65/1976, break against 40. g. The EEA Convention. To meet these observations at the time, the authority of a community to use premarital rights was bound to specific conditions in terms of the need for new premarital rights to land, land, or other countries that should be sold to be used for rural activities or for common use for the inhabitants of the community. There were no comments on this change, and it could be said that it was done well. The work involved was primarily to ensure that this law does not violate the EEA Convention. As I say, such comments were not made, so that work worked well. So it was in the bill to the ground layer in 2004, as I mentioned. However, this process takes place in the process that is then taken out by the Committee, which is why this law is not in the law today. However, it is quite clear that if you cross the committee's opinion, you did not exist. That was so that the premium would remain in the law. The committee won't argue why she's taking it out on her last record. As I mentioned earlier, Mr. President, there goes a very great and good job of ensuring that the directive is not in opposition to the EEA agreement and you would have intended it to be the most natural time for it to remain in the bill and be approved as a law that this law would remain. But as I've traced it, it goes far beyond that. It takes out this law for some reason, and doesn't argue that which is a little special. This results in the failure of the law today, being removed in 2004 from law since 1723. In the bill of the above recommendations, this provision is applied and added, as previously stated, that a rural society can take advantage of prenuptures, not conform to the world's major community planning. This is added to the main organization, and it has to be considered to fit in with that requirement. The common interests of the people, as the law says, and I traced them here at the outset, refer to the interests of many and even more of the population of the community. It will be considered that the premium is not expected to be taken according to this requirement in order to deliver certain individuals or a limited number of individuals to use. It's not in the spirit of this bill. I'm not going to claim, Mr. President, whether our rural society has financial resources to go into the stock market, is it really necessary? There is another debate in other areas, but this law is primarily thought that the rural communities will know about these issues within their own ranks. Although rural society has resources according to various regulations in its planning and building laws, it must be considered important that they know about the proposed sales of the earth within their own ranks, and this is considered to be an advantage for both parties, the buyers of the earth, and the rural society. Besides, I think this law could make more peace with this important group of subjects, simply because the rural society is well informed, the inhabitants of the country enlightened, and the use of the earth, hopefully, conform to the ideas proposed by the local community and become a major organization. After that, I refer to this case to the committee, who is in question. General and Education Committee, I presume. Mr. President would correct me if I wasn't. But anyway, I refer to this case. Named.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u41	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of the order of the NTSB to review police authority procedures, prosecution and judiciary in Guðmunds and Geirriður. The members of this council arrangement are members of the United States Group, i.e. The one that stands, besides my Elíasdóttir Frildur, daughter of Elias, Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson, Guðjón Brjánsson Brjánnsson, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Logi Einarsson, and Oddný G. Harðardóttir. The scheme is as follows: In accordance with protocols on research committees, No. 68/2011, appointing a special three-management committee to carry out an independent independent and independent investigation of police authority, prosecution, and judiciary activities in Guðmunds and Geirtur. The committee would examine whether or not the activities of the prosecution and the police in the handling of the case as well as the court case. The study also includes the introduction of German detective Karl Schütz. This suggests that the Allied Council appoints a committee of inquiry to go into the sewing of possible abuse of power, as well as whether illegal techniques have been used in police research on so - called Guðmund and Geirriður cases and in the treatment of courts between 1975 and1980. A number of cases have been discussed, and a new court of justice, from September 27, 2018, regarding the two killing cases, confirms that there was clearly no legal treatment. However, the trial itself has not been systematically examined, nor has it been made as such in judicial cases, but it is felt that it is necessary to complete the matter once and for all, by order of the General Assembly of Iceland to review all of this procedure. True, the 1979 hard - and - hard study of Þórir Oddsson of Oddd was presented to the Supreme Court but had little or no effect, and it can be wondered whether the design and conduct of this study is a special subject. A 2013 work group report on Gudmundur and Geir fictitious Affairs, led by Arndís Soffía Sigurðardóttir, is also thorough and there are multiple indications of serious abuse of power, as well as the lack of interference with law and order. Then, in chapter 19 of this report, the results of legal psychologists Gísli H. The son of Guðjónsson, the Friðrik Jón Sigurðsson, and the witness report to the city of Reykjavík, January 28, 2016, are considered to be of great importance in this context. There is also the hard - hitting study of Stingurmur Gautur, Steingrímur of Kristjánsson, from 1976, which provides insight into the tyranny used in the Sinai penitentiary, though it involves prisoners other than those in the Gudmund and Geirriður. Finally, it is worth referring to the decision of a re-entry committee on the behalf of Directors of Gudmundur and Geography for which there are detailed explanations for the many problems involved in the treatment of a case, both for the police as well as for the courts. Mr. President. The Supreme Court is now acquitted on the two counts of homicide, but the 1980 Supreme Court's judgment continues unconvinced as to the false charges against the four innocents. The new court's decision does not comment on the facts. Rather, the conclusion rests solely on the demands of the state prosecutor. Immediately from the evidence available to the city of Reykjavík, 1977, it seems clear that the principles of the criminal court were broken on many occasions. The obvious and most common seem to violate the obligation to examine the points that indicate acquiesce to the guilty. In the Guðmunds case, the accused of a policeman's investigation of the possible alibi of Sævar Ciscielskis and the Gerietiss case allowed the judges below to explore the truthfulness of the alibi that Sævar himself proposed in a letter to the court a month before the trial began. Sævar's description in this letter on a television news feed, which was prior to the modern era of travel, together with the new evidence submitted to a resurgence committee, calls Gísli H. Guðjónsson, our chief expert in false confessions, reliable evidence that Sævar had an alibi and that he deals with this point in his book The Pshychology of False Religion, published in 2018. The evidence also gives some important examples of not taking notes when the witness was not in the right direction. It seems equally obvious that the accused were rarely given the benefit of the doubt. There are many examples of this, both in the judgment of Sodom from 1977 and in the judgment of the Supreme Court from 1980. You can find expressions such as ▪ Plans, drawings will be in question, and the principle, which does not show complete confidence, will be laid. Both criminal and Supreme Court proved that Erla Bolladóttir had received a ride in two stages from Cheflavík to Refjord in the morning of November 20, 1974. On the contrary, the evidence behind this claim shows that the girl who was traveling there could not have been Erla. The courts, the prosecutions, and the defenders were directly exposed to counterfeit evidence when, according to one report, a confirmed publication was submitted from the Swamp Penitentiary's Penitentiary. On January 11, 1976, a chief judge did not bring in the judgment book, dear Sævar Ciscielskis to abuse. There is a written confession regarding that point. Other illegalities also seem to be probable. The Council of Reykjavík arrested a man to interrogate him as a witness. Also, the premises of protective measures may seem questionable and too vague. Mr. President. On November 19, 1974, a strong argument has been made that the defendants in the Gestapo did not go to Cheflavík at all on November 19, 1974. That evening Sævar Ciscielskis and Bolladóttir Bolladótttir's sleep at Kjarval convention is far from the possibility as well as the fact that TV actually showed the story that Sævar tried to describe in his letter to the judges in September 1977. Following the Court's justification of September 27, 2018, false charges will no longer be explained by the conspiracy of three defendants to turn suspicions away from themselves. Also, it seems that the investigators of the case, two investigators, and a federal attorney, have induced three defendants to testify in order to arrest the men whom the investigators themselves thought to be responsible for the death of Geiriff Geirfinnur Einarsson in connection with an extensive alcohol smuggling. The Re-Electment Committee rejected recurrence on the basis of b-joints 1. mgr. 211st par. the treatment of criminal rights, considered the punishment of the staff of the legal system. He gave the commission under Aðalsteinsson's charge to an attorney's chief stone son, who offered a new benefit in the case and gave the very argument that the punishment is due. The committee was able to list this discourse only and mention it ◯ TV program, but although the evidence presented here was completely new, it was not discussed at all. Such practices cannot be considered acceptable in today's world, and the New Council Board of Research must call for explanations on these issues, such as many others are subject to. Mr. President. I come here in peace. It's not such a thing that they're supposed to have some political foxholes. Therefore, I sincerely ask the Senate and the members of the council to present this course in order to obtain once and for all the necessary payment. The purpose of this proposal is at last to understand the old Gudmunds and Gesson case through a study of possible misuse of power and illegal methods, the important factors that neither the government, the General, or the legal system have adequately been able to consider. To say this, I suggest that this case be referred to why. Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u42	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. Councilmen for putting up such a good deal. I think it's very logical, but it's not. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir said in her speech that she would come here in peace. That's all I'm going to disagree with her about me. I'm not entirely sure that I'm coming here in peace, but, of course, I'm not the traveller of the matter, hoping that this attitude will not compromise its case. I agree that there should be no problem before the Senate. My problem is, I do myself as a citizen, not as a senator, but as a citizen, as a species of homo sapiens, a requirement to the authorities that they exercise authority well, and if they don't exercise this authority properly, I will make it a requirement and a right to change that government, and if I fail to change it, the government of democracy, in other words peacefully, I will make it war. Yes, a respectable president, this is a threat to live in all democracies. There is a requirement for us to abide by the law in this country. It is a requirement that the law be valid for all, that it is democracy that determines the manner of the law and that the rights of the citizens are respected. It's a condition. This is basic. That's how you start the conversation about whether we can keep peace in human society or not because peace is not self - centered, just not self - righteous. Peace depends on this requirement for democracy, freedom, and rights of the city. It makes me not quite 100% sure that I will come here in peace when I discuss this matter because this case is no less than a complete judgment of an entire Icelandic community, its civilization as a republic, as a nation, and that it takes four decades to get no further than here after the hell that this case is also a crime against our society. Lately, things have only improved. The defendants have, of course, been deemed innocent or ruled by the Supreme Court. But like a dog. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir went in, not because the file was taken again and the evidence was measured from that point on, but because the prosecutor asked for a righteous, something that was called a dirty mix in my business. I don't know a better word about it, Mr. Honorable President, and I beg pardon, that seems rude. But when we are discussing this matter, I feel totally justified in using even a somewhat rude word. What happened in the Geir fiss and Guðmunds was torture. Let's just call it what it is. When it happens in Guantanamo Bay, we call it torture. When it is used by military authority, we call it torture. That was torture. I don't care what scholars have to say about it. This is how it is, and it is obvious, and should be apart from all the theoretical academic discussions at this point. Likewise, these people were wrong about freedom. There should be, and there should be no difference. The fact that there are still legal people in Iceland who say that this is how they needed to be, that law - trained people who learned at Icelandic university and worked in Icelandic law during this time, decades, say that there was no judgment on the journey, and that even today, a state lawyer would suggest that there should not be any damage to one of the defendants in the case, that, in part, he did not teach, it was not that it was bad, and that he should even pay the legal bills, is a disgrace. A respectable president. This underscores what I hate to say here, in my opinion, and in this case the credibility of the Icelandic state falls. I've got to be honest with myself because I feel it's hanging on a thread. I think it is right to say that I have faith in a Icelandic judiciary system, with these justifications on the basis of the fundamental acquiesce, because the prosecutor demanded acquiesce. It was the least possible thing to do. You could shit it like that. That's what it was. The only way for me as a citizen to regain faith in the justice of Iceland is to think that this is what happened, judgment, torture. Right now, the situation, a respectable president, is that the same thing could happen again. That is the lesson we should learn from this. The same could happen again. Then it would take four decades for the prosecutors to seek acquiesce. As the situation is today, we would expect the authorities to say: No damages. This is the lesson today, a respectable president, and it's not acceptable in the state of the court, it's not an acceptable civilized society. I don't doubt for a second that someone thinks I'm taking deep in today, but then there's nothing to shit about, a respectable president. It's not. The blood should be boiling in any person who examines this matter and see what has happened to about Four decades because that is not the case, there is no peace to be maintained in human society while such things are found in any way. At least I say for myself that he's not available. Happily, in such a democratic state, we can still resolve things peacefully, but this community, including members of the council, is merely abdicating itself when it comes to this matter. State lawyers, tops. Prime Ministers, judges, police officers, journalists, voters, all, all Icelandic society. How did we allow this to happen? How did we allow it to wait for some 40 years? How did that happen, Mr. Honorable President? It is the disappointment that I experience, not just disappointment, but complete stumbling. Again in this matter, as often happens when the state breaks down its citizens, the state gives various explanations to describe how it was all right or not so bad or something like it. A respectable president. I urge everyone to ignore such a load, for that is the best option of all. These people were freer to freedom, tortured by the Icelandic government during a time of republic in a so - called state of justice. That's what happened. We should not just recognize it, we should say it as it is, and we should settle it in one way or another, so that generations of the future will never again have to expect legal persons to say that it was not a judicial murder, it was not torture, or was not so bad, or that they were somehow accused. Such speech, a respectable president, is not a suggestion for peace.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u43	Mr. President. I come up here to react only to a talk. paritaprevir Hrafn Hynns Gunnarsson's son because it seemed to me that his case had moved him because I had said I'd come here in peace, come up here in this pit in peace. Coming in peace is not said to smooth out the matter in any way. Being at peace is not said to minimize the seriousness of the situation. Coming in peace may well be said to leave no doubt in doubt that all of us can rightly and without fear agree to appoint a special committee of the General Assembly on this matter. That we don't have to go up there and you guys, that we don't have to race who's the most anticipated race, that we don't have to go to a competition of whose kind is the most shocked. I think we're just over it, and that at this point we can try to get a bit ahead of ourselves and stick to it. It's such a thing that we can just be there together. It's been 40 years. Let us not minimize the struggle that has taken place in the past 40 years. I encourage members of Congress again to stick together in this, and I don't go to any one of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u44	A respectable president. I don't make any comments at all. A senator claims to come here in peace, I believe it, and appreciate it. However, I came up here to describe that the peace in my mind is dependent on certain conditions, conditions that were violated in this matter. Thank you, though, that I still have, and most, it looks like it, enough faith in the democratic system in Iceland to believe that things can still be brought right in this matter. It seems to be slow and biting, very slow and biting. But to be clear, it was not a critical matter. A senator I came up here, but to describe it in my own words, how I am the case. I can't help it if I'm blown off every time this case comes along. Every time I think about it, it's gonna blow at me. I find it hard to control my emotions when it comes to this matter, not because I have some special contact with those individuals - in fact, I know one of the descendants of a member of the defendant who is my friend - but mostly seeing how the system always reacts. Always, I say, with all my experience. It's such a big part of the system that always reacts as if it's just some nonsense to be complaining about things like the right not to be tortured or right not to be freeheaded for years. And after that, there may be decades where people don't even get caught up in courts. That's what's happening, a respectable president, because I just insist on living in a state of justice, I insist on living in democracy. There is no peace without these two things - with me, anyway. But I respect a word. Also, if I had been invited to attend this council concluded by a senator, I'm not quite sure that I would have wanted to, just because I have found it in myself, that I need to be a senator and a citizen to express myself much harder than the Congress concluded. [[The president calls.]] But that is not criticism. There's just a difference between how I feel about this matter or how I feel I have to approach it, I have a lot of respect for members of Congress, and I don't criticize in any way that others approach it differently, and certainly need some cooperation to get it through. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u45	Mr. President. I'd like to come up to the General's symposium to say goodbye for this matter. I'd like to thank you for the first transporter and transporter for this council resolution on the order of the NTSB to review police authority procedures, prosecution and the legal authority of the Guðmunds and Geirdar. The first transporter made this clear in his speech why the need for research committees to operate in this largest court case in the 20th and 21st centuries here is needed and urgent. Despite the long - awaited justification of September 27 C.E. A year, in which five defendants of Guðmund and the Geitarian were justified by all the charges, the issues have not been finished with them, unfortunately. A victim who was invited to the defendants has been upset during the last weeks and days. This upsets the public, showing general support to the defendants in the Guðmunds and the Geirdar that have been found innocent. It has also shown a general willingness to show respect and humility to the defendants after all they have gone through in one of the greatest court cases of justice and justice in the last few decades here. It must be done to improve the youth - a false idea of freedom and false judgment - that they endured as successfully as possible to improve freedom and imprisonment, but, above all, with as much dignity as possible. I have a sincere hope that this will be possible. This issue is also the smell of reconciliation, also the smell of the act that must take place when bad things happen on such things as the Guðmunds and the Geies, and their consequences, 40 years after they first came up, for without the act, there will be no reconciliation and no learning. So I support this case because, unfortunately, stones still need to be rolled over. They need to know exactly what happened in this terrible case, and they will review what happened with the police, the prosecution, and the court case. I therefore believe that the issues presented here are necessary, urgent and good and part of the situation we must have as a community so that we can finally say and rejoice that this matter is finally over.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u46	President. I hereby recommend a synonym on signing and validating optional accounting with an international agreement on economic, social, and cultural rights. The proposal was previously proposed to a Council of 147, 148, and 149, and is now being reassigned largely unchanged for the fourth time. Maybe she'll make it this time. The history of the agreement on economic, social, and cultural rights, and its importance, is found in the report, and it was also tore off me when I proposed the case during the last session. I don't think it's necessary to repeat that speech, but I'd like to say that in recent years and decades, these rights, i.e. Economic, social, and cultural rights are increasing. Signing and validation of an optional contract may help to increase the protection of these rights. Thus a similar lawsuit would be set up for the rights protected in an international civil and political contract. It's been a long time since Iceland became part of this contract and confirmed the importance of the rights he protects, both by changes in law and in constitution, and also in court. By signing and validating an optional contract with the contract, the NTSB that operates under the contract will be able to receive business from individuals in Iceland. Taking this step will increase the protection of these important rights, and it is suggested that the Allied Council assigns the government to sign for Iceland and validate the optional book on the global agreement on economic, social, and cultural rights. That is all I have to say for now, except that it is my sincere hope that this case will be more successful in the treatment of the Committee and that we will be able to get together to take this step at last.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u47	A respectable president. I would like to recommend the Congress hearing of the people's dwelling security proposal for the residents and nurses. The General concluded to hide a health minister to prepare and provide a legal bill that stipulates the following: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. Governments and rural groups will be obliged to provide elderly patients who have undergone performance and health assessment, residence or nursing space within 60 days of evaluating the possibility of having the righting of such measures. 2. Education and health assessments should be published no later than 10 days after the application procedure. 3. Elderly persons who have stayed for more than 10 days in a hospital without any specific treatment will be provided with a living room or clinic. 4. Doctors may decide that a person who apparently needs to be saved in a nursing room does not need to undergo a performance and health assessment to obtain a stay in an appropriate setting. 5. A husband's wife or spouse should be placed in an institution for the elderly, regardless of whether he or she has had an employment or health status, he or she has the opportunity to spend time with a household member. A person gains the right of his own home as an institution for the elderly. Ministers provide the bill for this subject at the Fall Summit of 2020. This resolution proposal was previously submitted to a 149th legislature, 859, and is now reassigned. The number of nurses waiting for them increased by 60% at national level between January 2014 and January 2018. At the same time, the number of those waiting increased by more than 90 days after nursing room by 35%. From 2014 to 2018, the mean waiting time after nursing space ranged from 91 days to 116 days. Of the 186 subjects assigned to nursing in the third quarter of 2014, 57 subjects waited longer than 90 days. In 2018, on the third quarter of the year, 77 of the 175 people waited longer than 90 days for their medical care. In 2017, there was a general nursing facility in the country's nursing homes of 2,526 but a space of 281. In 2007 there were nearly 2,700 living space, over 700. The rurals provide housing for elderly nursing and day care, but the state assigns capitals to each of them. Thus, the rural community is dependent on the distribution of nursing and living cows from the state, and so the problem is that rural communities often do not receive, despite repeated requests, financial support to increase the numbers of nursing and in ways that they do not have. It will increase pressure on governments if the maximum waiting period for custody is legalized. Failure to comply with a law code for a maximum waiting time may result in damage to the person who is entitled to the option. It is recommended that the maximum waiting period for the residence or nursing period be 60 days. There is a significant increase in the waiting period for room or clinic if people have to wait a long time for their performance and health evaluations. It must be ensured that waiting for performance and health evaluations to be kept in mind so that appropriate measures can be obtained as soon as possible. This can be done with improved design and increased funding for the project. It is therefore suggested that you have to issue performance and health assessments no later than 10 days after the application procedure. If there is no doubt that a person needs residence or nursing space, there should be no restriction in the system. It is therefore suggested that elderly persons who have stayed for more than 10 days in a hospital without any specific treatment will be provided with a living room or clinic, although performance and health status have not been performed. This arrangement violates the hospital's flow problem and contributes to the right treatment right away. It is also suggested that physicians can decide that persons who apparently need to be saved in a nursing room do not need to undergo a performance and health assessment to be maintained at an appropriate facility. In such cases, there is no point in extending the procedure that an individual must undergo in order to obtain the right option. Older citizens who live in an institution for the elderly are often forced into separation because they are not able to stay with their mates or with their spouses. It is human right to make sure that residents in aging institutions can remain together with their mates. The goal of this proposal is to make it possible for people to continue living with their mates, who for health reasons have had to move to a home that requires physical and mental status. Therefore, it would no longer be necessary for a healthy or healthy partner to live elsewhere than for the weaker one. This would prevent separation. We know that we are getting old, that nation grows old fast. Thus, there will be more and more need from medical care. To meet that need, we too need to clean up in many areas. We know that nursing room is being opened, and it cannot be fully opened, perhaps in half, due to lack of staff and lack of the main concerns of nurses. In large groups of nurses have chosen not to do their job. This is to lead us to take into consideration seriously why, in a very small way, nurses do not want to work in the trade they have learned. There I think that mainly under pressure and hours of work, it's not decent, long night shifts. Therefore, in setting things right, the work environment of those who work at such institutions must also be considered to make it quite attractive to work under these circumstances. We also know that these past few years have been cut into the bones of the nursing institutions. All that can be cut down has been cut down, and treaties have gone very wrong with those who are expected to perform such service. There, we need to take steps to make sure that this service is available in a way that is decent for everyone and that not so hard as to be so hard that there is a need to cut down on everything, I am determined to say, so that nothing remains except for the clean and smart care of the evening and mornings. We must also realize that there is one group in the midst of us who is in a very difficult situation and who needs to respond promptly. They're the ones with brain failure. There we need to work hard. If this body's conclusion was to be taken to the contrary and followed, I'm sure that a great improvement would come. There, too, as I say, must be taken into account and take seriously the need for alzheimer or other diseases that are extremely difficult for individuals and families. We really need to get involved in it. We also know that it takes more than tears to separate married couples in these cases. Even worse, when a person goes to a hospital and instead of being offered help in a nursing home or a similar agency, he or she is sent home where the mate needs to receive and serve the person, the spouse who is often in a similar situation and who does not even have a chance to receive his or her sick mate in order to serve him. As a result, we are creating a chain reaction that in many cases overcomes the person who is to be accepted by a sick mate. We know that these are many examples, and we ought to make sure that the elderly are granted, and that they have the right to lead a carefree life. Therefore, we make this council resolution and hope that it will succeed. We have to do something. If we're not going to do anything today, or as soon as possible, I'm just asking God to help us. The numbers of the elderly are increasing rapidly. True, there has been reports of increasing domestic assistance and care for the nursing home, but, unfortunately, this has not been accomplished, as we know. You need to take care of these things and make sure they work. In the meantime, we must take immediate action to ensure that there is plenty of nurses for those who are getting older. If we do not, we are in serious trouble.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u48	Mr. President. We'll discuss a proposal for a hearing about housing security in local and nursing areas. I have no doubt that this matter is put forth with good intentions and with a real desire to do well in these matters. Nevertheless, there are some suggestions for which you cannot help but make comments. That's right. That's right. That's right. paritaprevir The Guðguundund of Ingi Kristinsson that we, of course, need to deal with the individual classes of care and to improve their working environment. But that is not what the suggestion is about. In spite of what is presented in the motion, it was only late today or yesterday that information revealed that the quality of the courting lists was firm, and waiting for nurses has only been sustained. That is well, for this year the number of nurses has been increasing, and the increase will be even greater in the next year. In February or March of the next year, there will be 99 new areas of nursing that will be used immediately. It's all for the better. But there is an impossible option, if it can be used, in step 2 of the proposal, which says that performance and health assessment should be published no later than ten days after the application procedure. performance and health assessment is a relatively complex process. When that process is started, the information needs to be collected from outside sources and they have, as is the case today, a period of time to broadcast data and collect it. Most of these data cannot be sent today electronically because laws do not permit it. They use snails' e - mails, and very difficult to see how this could be applied to a principle. It would be rather possible to make a principle that is that humans speed up the pace, but I think it is absolutely impossible to intend to bring it into law to do this in ten days. The data are not always available. It is not always possible to contact people who own or possess the information, etc. So somehow it has to soften the way in which it is. As 1st shows, countries and rural groups are obliged to provide older people who have undergone skills, health, residence, or nursing. There's an impossible thing again. In itself, rural society does not decide to build a medical facility alone. They have no authority to do so. It's always a deal between state and country, and these things have to be negotiated. Farmers can't lie with a room on the track, they can't lie with any amount of unused space. But again, in cooperation with the State, they can be encouraged to do better than I can see how it can be decided, especially when it is supposed to be part of the local community. The situation today is not like that. Rather, it would be to provide a law bill that simply suggested that the rural communities handle such tasks. Then it is 4th that doctors can decide that a person does not have to undergo a physical or performance status. I think it is very dangerous to leave this decision to one person without a formal assessment. A doctor who is having treatment with the patient may not necessarily be the best person to make a decision and to evaluate the precise status of the individual. How much better it is for an outsider to appreciate it! Let us see that there is a very important decision being made on behalf of the individuals involved. I think it's better to get an external view of who the need is and how it's arranged exactly. The performance and health assessment system is such that people are stratified according to need and can't be said to be alone by a doctor or by any healthcare professional to decide that this person is having this need because he or she cannot have any perspective on the needs of others in this order. In effect, it is in the hands of some particular doctors whether they are aggressive or who are most aggressive in behalf of their clients. It's not working. There must be some kind of harmony in this, so everyone must live in the same situation that does not mean that there is any difference. I don't think that's a good idea, I repeat it, but there's a certain impossible thing that humans are putting on. I agree completely with what's going on in section 5, which is why I've given a bill about it. But this too is a very complex matter, and it must be replaced. I believe that this work may take a very short time and if I remember correctly it was at least one of the carriers of that bill made this recommendation with an importer. I think I remember that right. The senators will correct me if I am not. We're trying to make it better all the time. We are constantly trying to make sure that people receive the ministry they have the right to do. But then we have to make a way for people to get ahead in some way, to say what we should say, to be reasonable, or to make some way in which they can do something different from the usual means of saving their food. That's not the thought. To decide that someone is in a position to need permanent family custody in a nursing home is a very big decision. It can be a burden to the individual, it is not a small decision for an individual to enter a nursing home, and for the state responsible for the performance and health database, it is absolutely essential that the patient's data are comparable and there is absolutely no question that a person on a waiting list for a medical space has gone through the same process as someone else and that it is not being placed in the same schedule. I hope so. Senators understand what I'm saying. There's one more thing I feel like the suggestion is missing. The proposal does not mention the cost of the proposal. I generally think it's a negative suggestion, but it doesn't have to be impervious. But I think, in blues, what we must agree on is the point of the Constitution of these matters, i.e. We need to improve the base of the nursing homes. That's one of the things we have to do, and I look forward to having conversations with the senators on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u49	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For his speech, Þór Gunnarsson's Ólafur! The Senator would like to talk about an impossible situation. This points to section 2, which says that performance and health assessment should be published no later than ten days after the application procedure. Impossible, that's what it's all about. A senator, but then it seems that he misunderstood the 4th. It's not talking about walking by someone or having one doctor determine your performance and health status, just not at all. It states a clear letter: ▪ Doctors may decide that a person who apparently needs to be saved in a nursing room does not need to undergo a performance and health assessment to be maintained at an appropriate institution. Here, perhaps you're trying to get a hold of a problem. ▪ Sobriety simply means that these situations can arise that being stuck somewhere without getting a release from their case is not an invitation to an extremely rare person. There's something else that stabbed me a little bit. A senator describes it as unfair to put someone ahead of his or her own. Usually, the whole food is made, like what you eat. A senator should know, he's a gerontologist, I understand. Or that it may be burdensome for individuals, there is never at any point we are measuring for an individual to be stripped of his own self - control in order to stuff it into some form of options that he does not wish for himself or that he does not agree with his colleagues. Maybe I'll bring it in later, as soon as I start flashing this kind of fun.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u50	A respectable president. Hv. A senator must forgive me for reading the proposal as she reads, but it says: ▪ Doctors may decide that a person who apparently needs to be saved in a nursing room does not need to undergo a performance and health assessment to be maintained at an appropriate institution. What if there are perhaps two who are clearly in a place? Who, then, should evaluate who is more needed if performance status and health have not been assessed, if not done any formal assessment has not been performed? How, then, are governments to assign quality if they are to set aside some of the equipment they need to use to distribute good things in a just way? There must be some sort of arrangement that ensures that there is a question of who is needed at any given time and that it cannot be decided that this one person does not have to follow the usual route, and then all the others have to do so. This does not work out, for we have become overly debunctively debating. It is true that in October 38 more spaces will be opened than the 30 that were opened earlier in the year. In March of the next year, 99 new spaces will be opened. It's in the capital area. Of course, it doesn't change everything, but this will have a significant effect on shortening the waiting list that is already being shortened, as it were in the news, if I remember correctly, today or yesterday.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. Yes, it is somewhat strange to look at the quality of life and to think that there may be discrimination here. That's not the point of the Congress arrangement. Hv. A senator noted earlier that it would be fun if the cost - analysis was completed or if the facts on how much this suggestion might cost. Hv. A senator must realize that we do not know of a real need and how this would happen. We're not the experts, and I'm surprised when it happens. A senator says that a doctor is not the best person to appreciate this, as he said earlier. I find that very interesting, too. I trust no one better to evaluate his patient's condition than the doctor himself, much better than any other member in town. But this was the word I wrote down after that. Senator. And, yeah, yeah. A senator read this correctly, speaking of the need for saving apparently. Finally, I'd like to turn myself exactly where I was starting earlier, before the time came out and everything went off to blink, and that's to refer to the constitution, speaking of how difficult it is, i.e. 1.mg. 76. g. Council of the Republic of Iceland, No. 33/144, which simply says: ▪ Any who need it should be legally secured to aid in sickness, disability, old age, unemployment, poverty, and similar incidents. It is this sentence that is first and last only followed as closely as it really is. I say, "Happy to all of you when you get all this room to use it. " I don't know better than the fact that the nursing room on the Seltiannes is only half drunk now because of the human race. Well, let's stay, then. A senator, optimistic and smiling, who hopes to recover all of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u52	Mr. President. Of course, we are not to discriminate against people, and since the senator quotes the constitution, he is likely to remember that we are all to be equal in law. The same principles apply to all of us when we attend public service. It is not guaranteed by this suggestion and I am criticizing it. I didn't say that a doctor wasn't the best person to evaluate a patient's condition. I said that treating a doctor wasn't the best person to determine where his patient should be concerned about saving. That's the point. That's what matters. [[Up front.]] Let's go over the story. Do members of Congress really want to go where we were before we picked up the saving system today, even though I'm not saying it's perfect? Do people want to go back to the point where they could be saluting their clients, perhaps getting their clients into a nursing home because they knew someone or made acquaintances? Do people want to go back there? Keep men really, if we get out of having a system that at least is objective, if we don't go this way that we use, that we may be more likely not to discriminate against people? [[Unidentified.]] On the contrary, we'll be in a position very soon, since a doctor in the East may consider a patient to be quite different from a doctor in the South, we can imagine that. We will soon find ourselves in a position of discrimination. And I'm sure that's not the intention of the movers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u53	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson before the talk, I want to make comments and start with the moment we were discussing. Step 4 clearly shows that doctors can decide what is involved. The report puts it word for word, with permission of the president: Then it is also suggested that physicians can decide that persons who apparently need to be saved in a nursing room do not have to undergo a performance and health assessment to be maintained at an appropriate facility. They are talking about doctors, which means they're more than one. Therefore, this is specifically stated. We're not talking about just a family doctor being able to do this so that he can't compromise. Then there's something else. Hv. A senator was concerned that countries and rural groups have no room for medical care. I would be happy if every member of the country had one broken space - and no waiting list. That would be brilliant. Then we wouldn't even have to be up there talking about it. You know, people say that performance and health assessment is a complex process and can't be done in ten days, but I'm telling you, for my part, that I think it's just a solution. The sooner we do it, the better. Although the old system in this matter is complicated, it should be easy for us to create a new, quick system, and I'm asking if it's all right. A senator would not agree with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u54	A respectable president. Of course, everything the lawgiver does is, and the health system is involved in a solution form of ◯bara. There's still a degree of complications, e.g. is the assessment of performance and health at this time that there are at least three people involved, in most cases a social worker, a gerontologist, and a nurse. If you have to get a lot of external information, you need to get these external information. To ensure transparency and that humans are not putting someone in line, not saluting someone, they do not have direct access to medical records. You don't have direct access to everything, but you have information provided by the Board of Education and Health Assessments. They receive information as they ask, but they cannot be held that they can be shaken out of memory as nothing is. The senator may well know that it is possible to do so at a shorter time than it may take today. You're absolutely right. Back to who's to decide. Who should decide if there are three patients and one space? Keep some single doctors, e.g. One who has the most severity in the matter of his patient's hand, to decide? No, it's not possible, and that's why we have the performance and health status system. Each of these patients can be clearly identified as being most needed. That is what needs to be fundamental. There is no other way to explain the quality of reasonableness.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u55	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answers. We're talking about priorities. We're talking about people who don't go between seeking first, individuals with Parker, alzheimer and other brain failures or someone who's so badly gone or who's so bad that it's quite known that he can't take care of himself and must get a good service. We're not talking about anyone who's supposed to have an analysis. We are talking about those who are more important, what is important to families in the country. Whole families are being overcome by individuals they cannot control. We are talking about such cases and preventing family traumas from occurring in the family. It tells itself that it can't be normal, and whiskers. A senator must agree with me, inviting a family to have a very sick individual, e.g. with congestive heart failure, and then plan to have some skill evaluation. We need to act quickly. There's something else I want to come on. Hv. A senator spoke about the cost and how to determine the cost of the problem. Then I'd just like to inform him and put him excited that it's the last Congress case of our five well-being primarys, and there we'll explain clearly how we're going to finance four of our suggestions of the five that we have in the first place. How thrilling it will be for him to read how we will be doing this whole budget!
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u56	Mr. President. For individuals who obviously need to move to a nursing home, as the senator enters, skill and health evaluations are moving faster. That's the way it is today. The legislation is now that once the patient has been in the hospital for a period of time, the performance status and overall assessment will be performed in the institution and taken over a short period of time. The Board of Education and Health is exactly aware of that. However, patients are not informed with the skills and health factors and the performance and health assessment; this is not their role. The skills and health evaluations in these individuals do not detect any diseases. However, this sets the patients in a nursing home prior to diagnosis and information. If we choose to take some particular group of individuals out of that room, I'm not sure that the minds of the carriers of the proposal will actually be fulfilled. I must assume that the mind of the carriers is in order for those in need of nurses to get as fast as possible in their needed service as well as for them not to delay the process on that road without need. However, the expense of others who may need the same service should not be at the expense of it. That would be neither fair nor demeaning.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u57	A respectable president. I am very grateful for this council-sense proposal and its pride. The people have given much attention to the affairs of the elderly, the desperate, and the low - paying people. They are our heart's concerns. I guess it didn't go unnoticed. What would happen after you read the media and heard interviews with both the members of the church and the health - care professionals in most parts of the world? We hear stories of even separation, having lived together, having lived together, and having a life together all the time, and another one getting sick, and the emergency is that he has to go to a nursing room or something, whereas the other person is left alone at home and has no chance of living with his mate. It has gone a long way before an individual living in the South has been sent to Húsavík because there was no room for him anywhere here, so it was a long time apart and it was difficult to visit more than hundreds of miles north. Anyway. Everything we're going through here, and now it's man's work. All the systems we build here, and now the nature of the matter is according to man's work. The need for performance and health evaluation that lasts for a period of more than three months is completely unacceptable. For example, during the days I was north of Ólabundur to help fill out papers where a person was applying to get into a nursing home. The answer was that those who discussed the subject were on vacations that did not get together, as mentioned in June until August. Once, maybe twice a month, this would be done for meetings. I don't know exactly how a system is thought that has become so systematic it doesn't matter if the person can no longer get into the bath, though he lives alone and he knows it all in the community, although he's socially isolated, although he's almost starving, if it's supposed to be that some system guy or some system of things should take months to decide if we should intervene as a community and keep an eye on this person's affairs. I think it's a bit sad to listen to the aging doctor. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, who really thinks that by intervening and setting the people for the benefit of the people by the weak or by how isolated they are, they can be balanced with the discrimination of patients, the discrimination of people who need help. What's it like when we go down to the emergency room? We are rated to one, two, three, four depending on whether we are falling from a heart attack or have turned to our toes. We're classed there. We have to wait - for a while. Wow, we're indiscriminate there. Here we are not talking about discrimination, by no means. We are talking about need, need, and need. We could really pull in earlier, efficient, and better than we do. I also feel sad when it comes to getting access to clinics or nursing homes. I just feel sad to take the discussion down to this level because it's not exactly what's being talked about here and now. On the other hand, I feel very positive that nursing homes are being built as they are being built. Very positive. But it is not good if we are able to support them, so a beautiful nursing home calls for accepting those who need to obtain such resources but who do not have human resources. There is no room for a person in such a home, as it is in Seltiannes, where half of the space was still ruined at the beginning of summer. I'll admit, Mr. Honorable President, that I have not seen exactly how many wastes are ruined today and how successful the human situation is now, with the maintenance measures that are proclaiming what is involved in the Land Hospital of University Hospital and surgery requirements of 3.5 billion dollars, to patients. It tells itself completely, as it turns out, when representatives of the Land Hospital met up with what happened. The budget in the days that one of the cut-offs is e.g. burning in the context of heart surgery. The list of requests is only prolonged in patients who really need it. We know how long it's waiting. We know of the flow problems at a Land Hospital ◯ A university hospital where the elderly are left unsettled by health care professionals at the hospitals. The beds are full. These are the most expensive resources. It was found when we were told by the Ministry of Health that one such space cost as much money to obtain, for example. A nurse seven times a week to visit an individual in an independent home. It is simply an effort to deal with problems quickly and safely, and it is extremely difficult for me to understand. The Senate does not see why it should be received. In this case, it is suggested that it be a minister who arrests it, the government. The United Nations must be able to implement it so that everyone can enjoy pleasure, and at the same time, the purpose of the proposal will be met. What I was going to talk about earlier about why it's not a cost analysis and the cost, and it's that it's just a Senate resolution proposal, not a bill. If we were to bring up a bill on that subject, we would have to demonstrate the nature of the case, as it were, a better and more precise calculation in all directions than a political arrangement requires. I am very pleased with her and grateful to all those who brought the case with us and gave us a glimpse into their lives, both the older citizen partner, the senior representative of the group's body of members, the president of the nursing services at Hafnarfjörður and others, a very large number of people who have lived and moved around with older people who have seen them lose their health, become involved in problems, and are all banned, and people just don't know what to do about it. It's for these people that this synopsis proposal is first and last proposed. I don't really have much to say. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson said that he fully believed that it was of good thinking and good will that the people's members put forward this synopsis proposal, and he is right. It is out of good mind and good will that we do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u58	A respectable president. I can't wait to get a little mixed up in the discussion, for I'm just sure that this council proposal is made with good intentions and good intentions, as it turned out. paritaprevir Sæland Howil back there. I don't doubt it, and neither do I doubt that in this hall there is a good mind and a good desire to correct it and to render good service to the elderly who need it. I thought a word was wrong. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, son of Gunns, has the ability to evaluate his ability wisely, and I know that it is. A senator knows this matter very well. I think the skill and health assessment we've built up around this would be wise, as well as when we opened up that it would be completely independent of rural society and that the priorities would be necessary. I don't think we should focus anger or irritability on that system, because I think that that is exactly what it means to resolve matters in some way and to set our priorities, even though we may want to see even better service in this class. I just wanted to get involved in the discussion because of it. paritaprevir Inga Sæland only came into the nursing homes. I admit I'm no expert on them, but I've seen part of the problem being that we need a home. In the old days when I was a child and began visiting great - grandfathers, most of the homes were called a nursing home, but they hardly exist today, since they are more and less nursing homes. No one gets into a nursing home but have skills and a real need for a nurse. I've been thinking about this. I know there is more of them in the country, though. This is also another factor that has made the business of these households complex, for the residence homes were sometimes built up with the sound mind of all kinds of organizations that contributed money to them. Then their communities accepted them, and then they were assigned to nursing homes, and now the business is completely fucked up. Governments and rural communities debate over who is to be paid for the ministry. This may not be the least point I wanted to come in here and take the opportunity because we are discussing the situation. I think it's time for me to go to the top. A health minister leaves no doubt that a local nursing home is a legal sect and that, as a result, the State is to oversee or invite it out and pay others to care for the business. Then, in particular, I refer to a problem I know that some of us in this hall know very well, and that is when our rural communities have somehow joined this group. I mean, we've come to a very close ice cream session with it. I think the nursing home on the Seltiannes mentioned earlier is a good example. They built a beautiful nursing home. At some point, the local community was supposed to be intermediate for operating on it. The local community saw that society's interests were not well paid by them and by the highest. The health minister said: Okay, then we'll take it and have the government run this nursing home. In particular, I refer to a case I know very well in Mosfellstown where there is a serious disagreement about who pays full cost of nursing, so I don't get involved, but I also know it from many places in my district. Many of the city council I've been talking to in the district, the Southwestern district, have discussed just this. I don't think there's any reason to spend the city councilman's energy and the mayor's money and then the Ministry to argue about it. What matters is the service of the individuals who live there. We have a community contract that we are going to live up to that service, and I think it is much simpler to do so. A health minister would take the business to himself. I've come to the main thing I've wanted to discuss this fine Senate arrangement that I'm convinced is to be made with a good mind. I can, to some extent, agree that we're not supposed to go against the systems that really work. Although we want to build more in the ministry for these people, I don't think we should destroy the systems that run into the vital service care systems of nursing homes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u59	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Haraldsdóttir for his speech. It seems so fun that me and the senator represent the same district and therefore know how unfair the nurses have been divided into that district. I see that more members of the district are nodding when they are spoken up. I agree with the senator who says that this does not mean that the performance and health care system is bad. However, this can easily mean that there are not enough nurses in the southwestern district or in the rural communities listed by the senator. What I would like to talk to the senator is slightly different from what she mentioned, that is, the building of nurses. I ask if the senator would agree that perhaps the concept for which the nursing home is represented is somewhat old - fashioned, and maybe we should think of other service models but surely live in a nursing room. In fact, there was a bang. paritaprevir Sæland Goland in his speech earlier, there is much more to be done in home. I just want to hear the Senator's attitude toward it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u60	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. My answer is, I'm very positive. I think that's a good reason to look at it further. Then we come to what was being discussed earlier in connection with the Senate arrangement for the skills and skills, the need for people to be very ill to get this food, and hence a place in a nursing home. I think that once people are present at that place, it may be most practical to provide the ministry in one place, such as a nursing home. Of course, it is often a long time since people need some kind of help until they need so much help that they have to live in an institution even though they are constantly trying to make it a home. I'm completely convinced of that, and I'd like to encourage him. A senator continues to do that. I know he's had some ideas that we'd better expand our ministry with older people who need help. There is also the problem I mentioned in my talk, the interaction between the state and the community. Farmers are responsible for social services with older citizens, but health matters are on the shoulders of the State. While there are many good ideas about how to give the individual the best ministry, we are in trouble arguing about who should pay and where the cost is. It's totally unacceptable. We need to get over the hair and stop wondering which side of this is on, whether it's paid by the answer or by our other remuneration.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u61	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. It's something that I've really wondered about. How unfortunate it is that countries and rural societies constantly throw out projects between them and that this situation is, in effect, that if their communities are holding their feet in service to older people, they will have no consequences other than that they accept the State and thereby eliminate their communities at expense. It needs to be changed. I have even. Ask yourself, " Is it possible for a community to accept service to older people? ' Maybe bigger societies could do that, but maybe it would be a bit complicated. It's about the space you're in. A senator came in, I am not convinced that the way is by increasing the number of residents. I believe that a service apartment where people had an independent home with a large amount of service would be a better solution than to reinvent to a significant degree the interspecies of living space. A certain group of older ones are certainly well - suited for residence. Benefits and evaluations can help to assess the individual.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u62	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator again resists. The home may not be the solution, and I threw it a little bit forward, but then I think we should also look for a home to be more like our idea today for disabled people who are just a little bit like a dog. A senator, who designed specifically for the needs of those living there, made it easy and practical to provide services. We too need to think that way. I think there's a lot of ideas like that to be rolled up. Bringing an older citizen's group to a local community is a classic. We're gonna go for a second. A senator who has been in the countryside for a long time is familiar with the discussion that has often arisen. I think the rural communities now think they are burned by the transfers of the disabled that they would not trust in that discussion. But I'd like to point out something I'd like to think of when it happened. A senator was talking, I visited a innovation firm across the street not very long ago, Trappa, I think the company's name, which solved speech service. She was very careful about what she was doing and was between being a health professional and the affairs of the rural communities within school. This company has solved the problem, can provide the children with the services and charge the local society when appropriate and when appropriate. Then we can ask ourselves, " Am I going to be able to get the innovations of a private person or an increasing organization into this group of subjects can help with the challenges we have not completely managed here to solve? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u63	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For the talk and participation in this discussion, Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir's joke. I have to say, I agree with her almost entirely. Thanks for that, huh? paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir. What I want, however, is to wonder. A senator is that we may begin to see a greater lack of dwellings. As I understand that the situation is now, however, it is just being changed by some refugees in the nursing room because of this change in need, but the need for a place to live does not fall out even though our people are getting older. We get older, and when the person is finally ready to have a change in farm care because of illness, he has become very ill, so the number of nurses is natural. Hv. A senator may talk about his hometown, and he is very familiar with the nature of the matter, and that is the kind of evolution I would like to ask. A senator in. Is she aware of how we change residents in a nursing room without being replaced? We simply cut down dwellings at the expense of raising nurses. I'm asking why. The senator just got a little bit involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland Land for the counter-sponsored. As far as I'm concerned, there's no local home built up recently, and I think we could even talk for decades. Like a snooze. A member of the council has been turned into a nursing room. In fact, I think to some extent it's because of a different community. There is a greater requirement for people to stay at home and live in their extended environment. We are doing much more service in homes than we used to when living space was in greater use. However, I feel that there is reason to promote whether in some case there is a need for living space. Then you can wonder, as I came on in another answer earlier, if there's anything else we're talking about. We are more talking about a farm core, as we know in the affairs of disabled people, that there is more of an independent bus, a real apartment to take away what is often called a foundation problem, but there is more access to the ministry. I know well in my hometown that we had institutions for disabled people like Thaddanes and then chalatuan, and I'd like to mention the transformation that has taken place in focus and how we discuss these classes. Now we can't talk about institutions anymore, we'll talk about farms and homes of our own. I think it's some way very good, but what I'm pointing out is that I sometimes feel that we're going too far or too exaggerated when we change things. Now it is as if everyone has to go to the NT when it comes to dealing with disabled people. [[The president calls.]] I think the big thing is something about people in our community being so different, whether they are young, old, having disability or otherwise, and we need to have many solutions to their needs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u65	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. In particular, the proposals for this synopsis are the efflux problem that we have been dealing with, the Landspiral University Hospital. There we have adults who can't do anything further in the hospital itself. The people are ready to take some other resources than the most expensive one at the hospital, and that is why there is such a tremendous need to make room for it. We talked about home nursing, and I know it was the highest. Health Ministers really want to promote it, but all of this costs and so we also need professionals who seem to be in short supply. It's sad that local people are little. I have learned about it in the country as well as elsewhere that the wait has been very long. We may suddenly lose our health, even though we may not lose it so much that we need to go to a nursing home completely but would be ready to receive the help offered in a nursing home. I think it's all holding hands. More and more measures and such things would be all for the better. I think we can do better than we do today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u66	A respectable president. I agree with the last word. paritaprevir Inga Sæland, I think we can do better. I'm absolutely sure of that. Hv. A senator came into it in an earlier talk that I've heard from people I know who work in nursing homes, that when we keep talking about building new nursing homes and that they need to increase the number of nurses, they just say: Okay, and where are you going to get people to work? Hv. In his speech earlier, a member of the body of elders addressed this subject. It's not just building boxes and houses but, above all, about the ministry. I know that we do it very well in many ways, in some places, it's very good, but elsewhere it's much worse, and I think a lot of it is the model we need, and then the constant conflict between state and rural unions about who should pay what. We must focus on solutions where the individual receives the services he needs, regardless of who eventually pays the bill. Hv. A senator entered only the flow problem of the Land Hospital. The problem is not that those who live in hospitals get food so that they have the right to a nursing room, that is, rather, whether they have room available and where people choose to go. That doesn't change the fact that I'm absolutely convinced that at our great Land Hospital, something much is wrong and something you can do much better, whether it's a flow problem or something else. We cannot view this as a bottomless pit, which we must always put more and more money into because more money is always called for. There must be something better to do in the health - care system, so that our service is more efficient and we get more from the wealth of health - care providers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u67	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the law of support to buy at the first apartment. In short, the bill is intended to address the problem that young people have to struggle with or, in the case, to return to their own home after losing it. The bill is presented to clear the available sources in the current law, both in terms of the percentage allowed to use special savings, reference levels are also calculated, but rather expand the population that can use such resources. I think this may be a significant matter just to meet a very sensitive group. Current legislation has included have been criticized for perhaps making much better use of earners who have far more money to collect substantial amounts of money than extending the authority to include the so-called special property, i.e. The 3.5% tax paid in a general labour market today and is expected to be allowed in a public labour market, also to make use of legal 15% legal pay in a special labour market. The bill appeared earlier in 149 C.E., but it did not succeed, and it is now submitted almost unchanged. What's changed into the bill includes three factors. First, it is suggested that this document, not only will its first purchase, be restricted, but it will also have been permitted to use it under the law if the individual does not possess real estate for three years and has not previously fully qualified rights to use it. This is done even. To meet the large group who lost their home in the wake of the crash, they have not even been able to enter the possession market again, nor have they reached enough rent in rented rooms. Anyone who knows something like this knows how hard it is to have even a family and have to pay rent in a tenet while also putting aside a down payment on an apartment. That's why I think it's a great deal of justice to extend the warrant to this group. They are a delicate group, often in a very difficult financial situation, even though ten years have passed since the collapse. In fact, it is the same way that the thought is given to other factors, which require the use of special savings. Instead, it is suggested that the right to use it be limited to 120 months, but it is permitted to pause. This can, for example, happen. Come to meet groups that export for some reason, e.g. for study or job, or, as mentioned earlier, have lost housing and dropped from property markets. Third, the main change is that this source also applies to the so - called special property, the 3.5% tax paid to be used in terms of duty insurance, of 15.5% of the tax, into its special property. It's faster, especially for rich people, very much the time people can save a reasonable amount of money on a down payment. When we look at young people's problems as to getting into the real estate market, especially those with more income, we obviously see a change in younger people's income, we see it in the dresser surveys. Young people have not enjoyed as much money as we are as older ones. Perhaps it is due to a combination of longer studies, more often than ever, young people are going to master schools, e.g. After college, but perhaps it is even more of a concern that less available is from well - paying jobs at the labour market for young people who are devoted to it. of, as we have discussed in this hall, the growth in the number of activities we have seen in the past decade or so is mainly a job in tourism but, for example, the number of jobs we have seen in the past decade. jobs in the field of technology and wands, which are often well paid, have been replaced. As well as the recent discussions, financial markets are increasing. Sadly, well - paying opportunities for well - educated young people have decreased in Iceland and are reflected in them. in recent years, the income development of this group. So I think it would be wise to clear this warrant to this group. When we look e.g. to the report that we have been dealing with our pensions, it is quite clear that the generation that is coming or is just entered the labour market and in what we could call a somewhat mature pension system, since we have 15.5% of the required fees and up to 6% additionally in the special labour market - it is much more than enough savings to create a very high share in their pensions at the time. Thus, it can be said that young people's problems are not an abundance but are simply not to be used enough for housing. Therefore, it would be more reasonable for governments to use their support measures to further buy through the special delivery process and to clear out the sources that, as stated earlier, would especially benefit those who are earning money, that these could result in real savings or real money that would be used for payment. As noted earlier, the matter may be presented during the last assembly. Clearly, governments intend to bring up some additional issues. Looks like the highest. In fact, the secretary of finance presents a very similar subject on a program in October, but as often as members of Congress want to become unattainable, political issues are then made up of good business to keep them under the proper hat when they appear. Of course, I have full faith that much of the council is more mature than is necessary to have the correct signature. This issue goes forwards and goes beyond the financial ideas of the Ministry on the same subject. I believe that it can help a group to be better informed. I sure hope there's going to be a career here. But in order to be polite, I would like to mention that I had to forget to mention those involved in the case. The movers, in addition to this, are Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, Hanna Katrín Fridik's Friðriksson, Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, Ingi In Kristinsson, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson and Þorgerður Katrín Gunnarsdóttir. Finally, I suggest that the case be followed by a discussion. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u68	A respectable president. I'm offering a proposal for a resolution on an independent assessment of the Landing Islands. It says: The General concluded to hide transport and local Ministers to have an independent assessment of the land should be started in line with the transport programme for 2019-5203 and a five-year transport plan for the 2019-22023 and that it will be completed no later than 31 March 2020. This is a reimbursed case from 149 of the legislatures. The proposal suggests that the assessment of the independent people on the land - to - land crew will be accelerated, leaving the situation in the Landing Islands neither the acceptable inhabitants of the Western Islands nor the rest of those who rely on easy transportation between the country and the island. A greater proportion of the transport and transport committees on transport, 172s and 173 cases at the last Parliament, states: ◯In the existing transport programme, projects [to improve the land-seat. The costs of research, security, independent assessment, and projects to maintain adequate depth in the harbor are intended to be covered. In turn, pumps and the docks are expected to deepen during the winter. This proposal will work out that it has to be concluded that the evaluation of the individual person should be accelerated from what is expected. The review is requested to answer the following questions: 1st Is there a significant reduction in the demand or neighborhood that these improvements in the island's area can be made? 2. What was involved in such improvements, and what is the estimated cost? 3. If such improvements were not possible, for technical or financial reasons, for what kind of divinity, would the harbor have to be kept open for the year's round? This suggestion suggests that the minister will decide to start a survey of the land - island crew and that it will be completed no later than 31 March 2020. According to the proposal, every member of Congress stands in the South Sea, in fact, apart from the highest. A normal secretary of transportation ends the motion directly to him.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u69	Madam President. We will discuss a proposal for a resolution on the independent assessment of the land-land crew. I am one of the partners of the proposal, along with all the council members of the South District, with the exception of a transport minister who, understandably, is not in the motion. Of course, I support her whole mind. The motion goes on to the highest. Transport and Regional Ministers will be assigned to initiate an independent assessment of land island crews in accordance with transport and the Ministers are assigned to complete the assessment by the end of March of the following month - but not before the end of May, as well as the month's end. In his talk, a messenger said. The proposal assumes that it is before the end of March the next month, in order to be handled, hopefully I'm right. I think the rest may be a long time. The point is that the planned assessment of the transport programme will be accelerated, not unnecessary, relative to the current conditions and conditions within the docks in the past few years or since its introduction over nine years ago. What am I talking about? Yes, the harbor has closed early in the fall, and many of its openings have been drawn far into the spring. As far as I can remember, the docks have generally been unusable beyond spring's squares. The waterfront's winter opening has been the next few hours of the event. If the weather has not been the case, sand has usually been the case that has filled the mouth of the harbor and the surrounding region, but sand has also been a major problem within the harbor. Madam President. In 2010, the arrival of land island crews changed much for the Western Islands when people could travel between the land and the island in 30 minutes instead of the three - hour voyages, as well as for visitors who were less attached to the departures of the ferry than they once did. Thus, in the summer of 2010, it was light on the Western island's islands, and a powerful optimism for the inhabitants, corporations, and those who were meddling on the shores of the Western island, to be seen as it was called in the Western Islands, but, of course, for those who wanted to attend the Island world, which were few, it was found that the tourist stream was multiplied during the harbor - and is - in full use. The people who serve as tourists, hotels, restaurants, and other parties saw their business management grounds being greatly strengthened by the arrival of land island crews. In this regard, we should not forget that once the harbor was designed and built, it was expected that if I remember it correctly, it would be possible to sail up to 97% of the planned travel on a yearly basis. Actually, there was something else. I don't need to discuss much about the frustrations and, at times, the end of the harbors have caused the residents, many of whom are building their livelihoods on transport to and from the islands. It gives such an eye. Madam President. As far as I'm concerned, the construction of the land island crew is not quite finished and the dock is to be completed. The report here would have to be reviewed by finding out and investigating the responsibilities of the adjustments needed to make so that the docks can be used as they were originally built. Thus it is important that this assessment be thorough and, as it is put in the motion, regardless of the fact that there will be a careful and impartial step there to draw up measures that are necessary to make adjustments in the country's docks. Madam President. Not much is more beautiful than sailing near the Western Islands and observing them from sea to sea. It's a great thing to sail with General into the Yastalett, and this vision leaves a few unmoved scenes that it does for the first time. So it is worth completing this speech in the opening lines of the well - known celebration of Oddgeir, the son of Kristjánsson, and Ási í the Bær of Absa, U.S.A. It's getting up from the summer sun in the silk-soft bleed With mountains on the coat green, My beautiful Home Island. Finally, I hope that this case will be quickly reassigned to a committee so that the assessment can begin.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u70	Madam President. The number of refugees who fled war, persecution, and conflicts went over 70 million last year, the largest number of people in the United Nations Refugee Organization for Refugees has charted over 70 years. ... allmyworktime. Each fugitive is a child, many of whom are not escorted or without his family. Children are a particularly vulnerable group, vulnerable to violence and abuse, and often children are not fleeing with personal characteristics. Age is part of an individual's identity and assessment of the need and the right of the candidate for international protection for a particular service, it is socially recognized that it is important to know whether you are a child or an adult. Children have the right to support and help in harmony with their status as children. To identify age in this country, a physical examination will be used for the diagnosis of age from dental development. Four different methods are used and given the mean age as well as the standard deviation. In other countries, age is also diagnosed from tooth development, but a concurrent diagnosis of bone development is also used. In addition, Dans alone report age from puberty and genital examination. The objective of this is to change the implementation of the ages in a complete evaluation without physical examination when it is suspected that the applicant who claims to be a child is legal and cannot be conclusively confirmed. In many places, dating based on physical research has been criticized because of both moral and scientific inaccuracies. It has also been suggested by the European Parliament, the European Parliament and the Council's Ministers and the Council of Ministers, that in the face of doubt, candidates applying for international protection should always be evaluated as children and not as adults and that a comprehensive assessment should be made to try to find their age, not tooth analysis, which is considered a highly reliable method of measuring children's age. Recently the European Council's recommendations on the implementation of dates were published and presented in Member States. The above held the seminar for the implementation of dates on refugees in Europe and on the new European Council's new recommendations on the implementation of the ages here on the country of 29 March. Among the storytellers was Tomá? Bocek, a special representative of the European Council in the affairs of refugees. At the seminar, there was also a difference. Talk about this bill that was presented in 149 of the legislatures and declared Tomá? Bocek's support for the changes presented in the bill. In resolution with the Council of the Council of Europe, No. 2295 from June 27, 2019, the first conclusions on child - rearing dating of unwanted children are to be noted, as well as for a complete evaluation. The conclusion even points out. that the council reiterate their former position, i.e. An example of burdensome dating can have a major impact on children's physical, emotional, and psychological development. At the same time, the Council welcomes the Parliament's campaign to shape a broadly relevant method of dating. To achieve the above goal, changes in the 113th stage are proposed. law on foreigners that dates should be made in a comprehensive assessment and always in accordance with the legislation that ensures child rights. The bill emphasizes that the process of dating is clear and beneficial and that the person taking care of the child's interests is present at the ages. It is then important that the evaluation is objective and impartial and cooperate with qualified specialists. Therefore, a comprehensive assessment should still take into account the circumstances, the individual case, and the available data and information, but should, on the top possible basis, be used to identify the age of candidates for document search, professional assessment or specialists, such as psychologists or sociologists. It is not permitted, if the bill in question is passed, to use physical research to determine age, such as by examination of the development of hands, kneecaps, or teeth, unless there is still some doubt about the age of a foreigner, despite the use of all available resources for the overall evaluations. A physical examination should be the last administration by the government and should only be carried out by qualified specialists in the presence of witnesses and, if available, the informed consent of the child and/or the interests of the child. A physical examination should then be conducted by dentists or by medical personnel designated by the government and physical examination should also be carried out in the presence of an expert in the field of psychology of children and adolescents or in the management of social matters. The best interests of the child should always be taken into account when assessing whether to undergo a physical examination. Unauthorized examination of the development of genital organs is entirely allowed as a way of determining age. This is the first time clearly stated that this method will never be allowed in this country. When a decision is made for a foreigner to undergo a complete test of age, it is important that the individual be instructed clearly and understandably and be informed about the reasons for having such an evaluation. Madam President. There is a transnational committee on the review of laws and laws on foreigners, but unfortunately, they have failed to improve their work. While the committee has not been working as it should and has not been given the shelter needed to do so, changes in the law of foreigners have been made from the Ministry of Justice. In the meantime, while this collective review of the laws and laws of foreigners has not been performed, it is particularly important to my opinion that members of Congress make needed changes in the laws of humanitarian and humanitarian foreigners. So I hope when this case comes to face and treats me. The General and Education Committee shall be a good and careful subject and that the matter should be given the support and support of the committee they deserve.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-25-10.u71	Madam President. I've been celebrating this case, and I've come to a pit in particular to say that the Conspiracy, the party I represent at the council, has repeatedly criticized dental diagnosis. Logi's go! Einarsson's go! Let's go! Last year, a member of the Party sent a question to three ministers, health ministers, Justice Ministers and Education Ministers on dental dating. It is important to stress that children applying for international protection in Iceland have the same human rights as other children in this country. The 2013 Icelandic government has legalized the 2013 children's covenant as a law in Iceland. It is our joint duty to fight for the human rights of all children, both children raised in the country, those in their distress, to go to Iceland, as well as children who live in a disaster abroad. These are absolute rights. V.E.G. Healthcare Ministers were supported in their response to the surgeon's assessment, which states that experts working on age analysis work according to professional requirements and respect for the individual and that theological dating of children and young people is based on international, scientific, and cross-checked methods. This response also shows that the accuracy of the dating of teeth is significant but not infallible. The ages based on physical tests and dental X-rays are very controversial. Dentists disagree on the authenticity and scientific value of such tests. As such, e.g. Britain's dental organization said that they are inappropriate and immoral because they never provide accurate information for the time being. They are not infallible. In addition, international agencies and human rights organizations, such as the United Nations Refugee Organization, the European Council, and the United Nations Children's Fund, have severely criticized these methods. The overall evaluation of children's ages, such as those at the Children's House, has to be used by specialists in child - care professionals, psychologists, and social workers. It must be remembered and honored forever that the benefit of the doubt should always be enjoyed by children. If there is a doubt about whether a candidate for international protection is 17 or 18 years old, the doubt should be taken into consideration. This is indicated in the response of the Minister of Justice to the subject of Logi Einarsson's request that a general assessment of the Foreign Institute is conducted but you have a feeling, as perhaps once before, that there is a general assessment more like a nice word used for ornament because there are no social advisers or psychiatrists in this regard in the Agency, and in fact the process that the Minister describes in her reply is not carried out. The minister of education, in effect, referred to the independence of a university from the interference of state and finance that I believe is not relevant in this case. I don't intend to keep these words to myself and my fellow members in the United States to support this matter entirely.
