ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u1	Mr. President. We vote for the removal of frozen meat on fresh imported meat, followed by two decisions that have fallen on this matter. At that position, this bill is being acted, and now the food legislation will be in harmony with what the Icelandic government committed to do almost 12 years ago, while preoccupied that the foods brought to the country should follow the requirements we put on domestic food for food safety. Iceland is going to be on the lead in measures to reduce the spread of antibiotic resistance within the framework of international commitments and on the basis of public health policies and will be aimed at preventing the spread of food that is identified as antibiotic resistant bacteria. I think it's right that we settle this matter with our vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u2	A respectable president. The bill is the result of a lot of work. 18 months, and I thank both the personnel of the Ministry and the Employment Committee for good and hard work, as well as the numerous experts who have come to work on this matter. As mentioned above, this is a reaction to the Supreme Court and EFTA courts. The bill is designed to stop the bad conditions that have gone on. Eight years and the national commitments that we have not yet completed, which were made by the Icelandic government at the beginning of this century. At the same time, we will ensure the safety and food protection of livestock stocks by the interpretation that we agreed on earlier today and will secure and improve the competitive status of the Icelandic food industry. The task of the next month is to implement and implement the schedule agreed today. I go to that work with joy and optimism.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u3	President. It's a very good thing, and I'd like to vote with it, but I'll be on yellow. This is because even if we've already accepted the Conventional Conclusion on the Security of Farms and People's Health when it comes to the import, I just don't trust that even if it's delayed to January 1, it will be introduced. I still think it will, but I don't want to be responsible if it doesn't work. Most likely it will. Today, in the Senate arrangement, the 11th November appointment is due, the counterweight action should be ready from a minister. I really hope that it happens, and I think it happens, but I'm not gonna be responsible if it doesn't. This may show my confidence that money will actually be put on these counter measures, which I do not trust with fish fire. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] However, I point to it and point out that it's been a good time for this, but I'm not gonna be responsible if this goes off.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u4	Mr. President. Overall, this is a well - worked case, especially within the job committee. This is a matter that will in my long term strengthen Icelandic agricultural production and, at the same time, provide stronger support for the scattered regions of the country and thus, other sectors associated with such activities as tourism and other factors. I'll vote with this case unless I don't see what I'm not going to vote for the change in the motion which, in my opinion, is no more than a postmortem to the inconsistency of the Central Party in this case, where I don't think there's any reason to postpone this case again and again in order to ease the suffering of the Middle Party. I simply think it's a well-being, as the government suggested, but then the job committee changed the date to a deliberate, well-explanatory, and I support that change.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u5	Mr. President. I support the bill on this subject, but I remind you of key elements that have not been mentioned in a number of articles on the subject. It is a human diet's carbon cycle, and the difference between homeborn bale and imported food in that subject. This business and agriculture over the head is about more than quality and consumer protection; it's about climate, real and tangible warming; it's about moving in or not bringing in meat thousands of miles or blueberries from Chile by flight. The import of agricultural products will always be significant, but we must control it, e.g. with this bill and others, for their well - being, for consumers, for public health and for the climate crisis. So I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u6	Mr. President. As noted in the Committee's list of more parts of the Economic and Business Committee, there is an overview of the changes made here by the Oddný Harðardóttir and other members of the council. I hope that members of Congress can join with them in making these adjustments. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u7	A respectable president. The bill presented here has the primary objective of strengthening fish farming laws and management and building up a strong and powerful industry based on sustainable development. The protection of the environment and the wild salmon is guided by science and research. The important and, of course, requirement has been raised that the structure we see does not impact on the wild Icelandic and unique salmon. The largest change the bill makes is that of establishing a specific control device, the risk assessment of genetic mixture, which is designed to prevent possible damage to wild salmon stocks. Tonight, we will be the first country in the world to legalize such a tool that binds production clearances to protecting wild strains. It's a big, important step. The risk assessment then needs to be further developed and it will be done, including with international snooping. While there are many differences in viewpoints in this subject, overall the main line is equal in all the discussions that have taken place here. [[The president calls.]] I also thank the job board for excellent work and good work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u8	Mr. President. We vote for the legislation on fish farming, which will eliminate uncertainty about future development in this important industry, will promote urban development and strengthen the economy. It has been very important to learn from all aspects of this matter, from the article itself as well as the environmental sector. True, open sea pens and possible genetic mixtures have been concerned with the wild salmon. I believe that all these viewpoints in the bill have been successfully met. With the changes made in the activities of the Committee, we have developed more environmental requirements and have stressed defenses against the diseases of fire. There are also counter-to-establishment measures and they are taken into account in a risk assessment model. I believe we are accepting a case that has received extensive and good publicity, which will help to strengthen this article in the future and also prevent genetic mix with the wild Icelandic salmon. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u9	A respectable president. There are many good things that have been done, essential and extremely important in this matter, and I must thank those who did so, but at the same time express sadness over the fact that nature is not allowed to enjoy the utmost doubt in this matter. I don't understand when we're finally putting some rules in this area that we don't decide to stand with nature and allow fire in sealed heifers only instead of walking halfway now and allow the open and closed, trying to make some sort of ◯hirfjörður system. I think it would have been better if we were missing a permit and some applications and such, you know, we could have made all kinds of compromises, that we had stood our minds up with nature in this case and allowed only sealed heifers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u10	President. They are few, the hours that have been spent on this matter - many meetings, much reading, much presentation. Sometimes I've had salmon in my cougars and it's not fun, I can tell you. But we're taking a big, big step, and I think we should look to what we're getting. It's simply not right for nature to have the doubt. It is being legally established, as it were, the advice of our most skilled scientists on how to build up a fire so that it is at peace with nature. There were tightened cables connected to the environment of work. Named. The public's access is being better assured to make comments on how the farm will be advertised, applications have a traditional assessment of environmental impacts, etc. I think we're taking a big step toward making more peace with fish farms in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u11	Mr. President. This matter has improved greatly within the job committee, and I want to thank you for it. Yet, for us Icelanders, the key is to set us as strict demands when it comes to the progress and growth of fish farming so that we can increase the value of the products to a very fierce competition that we have in large populations in fish farming. I'll be sitting by on this case for a few things. One is the permit squad. I don't think it's credible, as it's stated here. There's a certain suspicion about the reference date and other matters, so I don't like it. In my opinion, this is not enough to put a closed heifer, go to salax, etc. Third, yesterday's proposals for peace were made, and I don't feel sorry to use this opportunity. Most important, the risk assessment can become the key to building fish farming, the key to developing long - term fish farming. [[The president calls.]] I'm afraid the way this is going on is that the Committee that's being ordered can cross the risk assessment. It's political prints, and I'm afraid of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u12	A respectable president. This is the case with growth that, fortunately, some positive changes have taken place in the cases that have been in the past two years, since they began working with it. Still, they leave the matter behind in that place that unless members of the government party feel that it is wise that we take a little more time to win it. A hunting court's relationship is that we should take the time to take a closer look. Fire companies feel the same way. We're at the point where we should take one step back and look for ways to do this a little better. Fortunately, environmental factors, which can be added to the environment. Section 8. ... andI don't thinkwe're going to be good for the cut-off point in connection with the leaves. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u13	President. There are votes on a matter of using the common resource of the country. Yesterday, our proposals were rejected in the memory of our Elíasdóttir, the Fräuleind of Elijah's daughter, for the purpose of turning into a wealth of resources. I also pointed out, as I have said in my speech today, that the price taken, which was agreed to be revised after a year and a half. Let's see. After yesterday's cry code we heard on the Committee, we either after hearing it at the end that it needs to reduce the small fees that are placed on this operation or that people will call for an expansion and improvement - because what is already being put there, they want and go into the old system, beyond the risk assessment, which they're talking about, that's what they're talking about. I've mentioned this and pointed to it, and we'll see how it's going to develop. It is not honest to know what is really in the balance when this is agreed. I will vote against both forms except for the activities of the Committee, which are being carefully fixed on the environmental issues that have been done on this matter as well as on this matter, and that can be said to be well done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u14	Mr. President. As it has been repeated today and yesterday, we had extraordinary cooperation on this matter on the committee, which I sure hope will be a model for the work of the Committee at the next council. As noted yesterday, in the United States, most of the changes in terms of the rest of the sector were supported by one important article. Despite the good changes that have been made on the committee and our support for most of the changes in the greater part, there are still some things we can't react to, unfortunately. Therefore, we do not trust to support the bill, but we do not violate it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u15	A respectable president. The motion of change. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson, and I'm moving in on this case, it's about a B- unit 24. And there's an extra word that goes on: ...is a change or improvement in terms of a published license. It is about those who have already been given business licenses, on the basis of the expansion of their license under the older system - it cannot be the purpose of the law to extend permission to the auction market and to allow anyone to enter. This cannot have been my goal, so I encourage the entire body of Congress to support this adjustment proposal to expand available licenses, which have already been issued under the older law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u16	President. The approval of this adjustment would mean that by age and time, every application would be applied for an enlargement of every license in a weight-bearing area today, depending on the old system. It would have been nice to discuss this change and an idea for her. There's a transferer and her executive, Bergþór Ólason. On the other hand, he is not on a professional committee and may not have been at work much. I know the words, though. It is similar to a text that everyone has. This morning the head of one of the fire companies was mailed to the professional authorities, so it's fine if this should go directly to votes right now. I'm looking at the big movie. I'm looking at when we set a law that's absolute. There has not been an answer to one of the questions in our discussion today as to how this adjustment would affect the situation. So I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u17	President. It's kind of strange to be here talking about the adjustment I'm writing as the 1st transporter on, but it was still on notice. Here is a way to find the cut point to the old system. To those who have not fully inserted into this, it is all about shutting the door after the old system because we want as many applications as possible and the structure to be done mostly in the new system. I would have chosen another cut, but I was on top of the rest of the section. I would've wanted to go further because I would've wanted more production levels into the new system. That's why we're putting new laws on this. On the other hand, I look at the big picture, and even if I'm not comfortable with every detail of it, I can support it. That's why I say yes. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u18	Mr. President. We in the United States do not feel that there is any way to support these adjustment proposals in the greater part of the provision of licenses in weight-bearing areas. As I said in my talk earlier today on the subject, the way most part has chosen for the legal rights of the policy of price - resistant areas of disillusionment. The preferred route means that small amounts, if any, of the ground - weighted areas remain for distribution under the new law. We're here to create better legislation, and we believe that using it, especially for our communities, that applications will be applied according to it rather than to first, first, as the old legislation has offered.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u19	President. This adjustment does not make you believe that in time you will not be able to listen to this cry code at the marine Association because this change is due to your crying letters and how they were presented in the Committee. I just need a word to describe it. Yesterday, just when we thought it was almost over, they came to the committee and said it wasn't enough they were getting. They wanted more into the old system - and that's exactly what they're getting today. With this consent, they get more into the old system. We know that the organization of an enterprise on a fishing road, a former LIVE, has tremendous power. This case has not even been approved, and they already have support for the modification program to move more into the old system. That's why I don't trust that the cards about all this are actually being shown us right.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u20	President. - Paint, like what? A senator followed up earlier, saying that this adjustment proposal for which I was leading has arrived after the crying shoes of interest stakes last night. [[Up front.]] The plans for this adjustment, if I get to have been here, were presented to the members of the committee, including them. A member of the firm who spoke here, Friday. The change is very conflicting with the interests of the interests of others. They don't think it's possible to accept the bill because it's out of control. I don't feel that I'm accused of dealing with some cry-collar stakes and when it comes to showing them some kind of toughness here, even though it's not the hard stuff I would have liked to show. I can't wait to talk like that. [[Foreground: You've done...]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u21	So you talk about what's good, it's one of the good things that's being done in this matter. As it came from a minister, a man was only very surprised that it had made its way through the government, but clearly in the processing of the Commission and then, of course, under the leadership, as I have mentioned before, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Olinson Proppér, who has really stood in the legs, so I say now, in this matter, and received an enormous amount of environmental issues into this matter--I have said it in a speech chair before, and I say it again now, so it's not at the moment. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttirsson Proppér's case is to be accused of this. I wish I had said it back here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u22	V.E.G. President. I see I'm pretty lonely out there. No, it has increased. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Although this synoptic proposal has continued to improve since its introduction, I would like to inform the Senate that, in fact, little more is bothering me than a pact proposal required by the Minister to give the bill to the next council and to choose especially who should write it. In fact, what Iceland's resources are. Be a good minister to them. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u23	Mr. President. This bill is one part of a number of actions, including aimed at making the teaching work more desirable. I'd like to support the matter, however, that I believe that the adjustment proposed by a greater proportion of the General and Education Committee suggests very important, in order to form the university being given a longer time to work on the revision and preparation of a teacher's school, taking into account other changes being made by the bill. I think it is very important that the adjustment proposal will be accepted as well as the proposed changes. paritaprevir The Þórarinn man Igngi Pétursson proposes the matter, including to postpone the taking of the law and provisional regulations. I hope your bill will be accepted with these adjustments.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u24	Mr. President. In the early stages of the case, I have discussed my concerns, but the existing adjustments, especially in the course of change. paritaprevir Þórarinn, son of Ingi Pétursson, and its outcome, will get me to vote with the case, confident that the group appointed will attempt to land among different schools so that it may be possible to improve the whole case and that the landing will be an education in the country for the better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u25	Mr. President. We vote for a change in the EU mail directive, the third one in the row, a so-called third package. The main ingredient is the removal of the private rights of the state of the postmarket and the opening of the market. This is a goal that I and my associates in the exorbitant support, but there are two things I want to say about it. It is quite critical that a report of the European Commission's work together with this work, which is completely integrated with this issue in view of the impact on competitiveness on this market to open and deliver. In addition, my opinion and ours are in action, and the smaller part that says that changes do not go far enough to ensure this freedom and this opening. The good news is that this can be improved by the approval of the changing proposals presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u26	A respectable president. This is a total mail service law that is partly considered on the 2008 implementation of a 2008 directive. Since the law is intended to go into effect on January 1, 2020, there is no situation that there is an urgent need to remove it already. That is why it surprised us in our memory that this case could not be handled so well. The Environment and Transport Committee may consider the conclusions of a recent report conducted by the National Reexamination of Iceland's Espionage, on the general public service burden, on private rights and on who to do that service. I'm sorry, there's no way you can sign up for this government, DC and the new part of the Environment and Transport Committee, and therefore the United States will be involved in the payment of this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u27	A respectable president. The Report of the Government Reviews, as mentioned here, is under consideration by the management and monitoring committee. It is a matter of confidentiality, which has now been courted by members of the committee. Its contents are silent. It adheres to the rules and regulations relevant to the publication of Government Accounting. So I have to say, I'm just a little surprised if there's something to come into the payment of a postal service law, how we want to see the law for the future. Of course, the State Review Report will follow the usual procedure, as with other reports, and I don't know any better than it has been referred to a joint meeting of the Directorates and Overseers and Funds Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u28	A respectable president. I feel compelled to come up here for a word. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttir's son Proppér, who could not, probably, on the basis of other councils, are meeting with an executive and surveillance committee this morning for a lot of this discussion. Regarding the confidence on the report, the confidentiality is due to the fact that a government accountant has not yet been invited to the World Council Committee to present the report. He wishes a confidentiality until the report has been presented because he does not want it to be discussed until he introduces a report from the Council that he has made and that it has been discussed. That's why he's confidential. However, the report contains information that will be removed from this source, which contains unique information and is not the confidence involved. The content of the report cannot be discussed with all committees, but there was no basis for waiting for this legislation, as I came in before, while the Allied Council examines the results of an Albourgment Agency. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u29	A respectable president. On this matter, like the rest of us, there has been an agreement regarding the end of the council. It is obvious that a new law on mail services in the country to take effect on January 1 needs to be passed on at this assembly. The Agency must have the scope of the remainder of the year for the benefits of the most important changes in the mail service. That's basic. The report on this subject is about the company of Iceland. It is not about these laws. It will surely be taken into consideration if there is something that can be used into the future, as well as what the council can do in the autumn if so. I want to reiterate what I said before, I'm sorry to bother you. paritaprevir The Helga Vala Helgadóttir should keep in mind the majority of the Committee and other members of the Committee, their members on the Environment and Transport Committee, that we have a harsh procedure in this matter. [[The president calls.]] It's been very well with all the work done, and I want to thank the members of the Committee for the good cooperation we've had on this matter as well as on the others in the past few weeks and months.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u30	Mr. President. In the spirit of this show that market and competitive ways are always a struggle to establish an international service in this market, the less part adds to the change, suggest that there will be no longer any privileges on the bill, and in exchange for tender invitations in the selection of public services. For such a proposal, a minister would have to set in its Regulation further instructions on preparation, terms and the procedures that establish a different form of change, but this is considered in the lesser part the best way to follow the spirit of these laws, this opening market. You can do this by giving non-exporters a step, not merely taking into account prices, but, for example, for example. Evaluate innovations in the area of mail distribution, which served to provide data for remote and smaller settlements. Then it would be done at the cost of the State if such the most practical offer was made, not simply the lowest at the price. This is the right way to do this if people really plan to open up this market that's been running for so long a state of competition, for the benefit of everyone. [[The president calls.]] I encourage Congress to accept this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u31	Mr. President. I come up right at the end of my life to make a crucial attempt to get my good associates to the Hall to celebrate a little bit of liberty and opening the market, not just in word and not just as little as possible to survive with. This adjustment suggests that it is important, in order to ensure the greatest market competition and balance, that the cost of international services and political competitiveness is clear and public, transparent. So we suggest that the new provision of the new bill be added to the bill and that information on the cost of Iceland's mail will be collected and made available to the public and public. And in spite of the 42nd requirement. which has now been approved by the office of the law must the Ministers immediately begin this work. They don't agree that it's at least Popular?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u32	A respectable president. I have to say right now that I'm afraid a little bit of the change in the memory of the part... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u33	The president prays for silence at the meeting. Senators to stay in the hall. A vote is at hand.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u34	A respectable president. I'm afraid for a little bit. Councilmen have missed or will miss the change in the memory of the part. It meets anything that is critical of the bill in the committee mask of the greater section, e.g. Counsel on the subject. It's going to the World Health Organization. The type and type of writing required in a Regulation. Regarding the question about whether a person can name a constellation or a question mark or something, it is in harmony with the changes in the memory of the object. For a series of names, middle names, human names, a code for children, these are met. I wanted to mention it specifically because I feel that most of the section's opinions indicate that there was a drop between a ship and a dock. I'm afraid for a little bit. Congress officials do not know the minor opinion well enough or make adjustments in this regard. They're good, and I hope they are. Congress votes with the modification proposals and at least I'm not against the principles of the bill because I'm very much concerned that the changes may be introduced into the bill itself, so that when it comes through 3rd. and a vote there can vote according to the bill as it is thought of by tourists themselves. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u35	V.E.G. President. I wanted to promote it here at the beginning of a vote that more of the General and Education Committee would oppose the legal violation of this bill. However, the largest part of the committee's list shows that the representatives in the greater part feel that this is a basis for a review of the human name legislation and that it includes a few examples of factors that would need to be considered. I don't want to belittle the work that has been done in the General and Education Committee on this matter or a contribution. paritaprevir Jón, the son of Valdimarsson, led them to work. However, the majority of the committees did not feel that the matter had come to that point or had developed in that way that the majority of the officials were willing to support it and make it legal at this time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u36	Mr. President. It's all right here. The Human Committee is a child of its time, a product of society, and a drug society. We in the United States support this case, and I'm not going to say anything more. We support this case because we adhere to an anonymous automotive.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u37	Mr. President. This case was not ready when it entered the council. I agree with what is stated in the members of the greater section and the clients who felt that way. I can also say that many of the adjustments are needed. paritaprevir Valdimarsson Steindordur Valdmarsson makes an effort to improve the situation, but it is fundamental to me that human names are not properly changed from language to language. Therefore, I would have thought that such a situation would require much more careful planning and more careful consultation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u38	Premium.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u39	I can see that this language is very uncomfortable at the moment. Councilmen to rejuvenate. They just can't hold on while I get my two minutes' worth.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u40	One.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u41	I also believe that this case would have required more extensive consultation with the public in the country, since it is the very issue that concerns all of us. I think that's what we're talking about. Senators who advocate careful management and proper planning can simply not pay their vote to this bill, and I will certainly resist it. [[The president calls.]] However, I believe that changes in human names are a problem, so I do not disagree that they may need to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u42	Mr. President. The haphazard resolution of the Independence Party makes it clear that a human committee should be put down in the present form and revised the laws of names to give parents more freedom to give their children a name as well as to protect their own names. I want one too, topv. The president, quoted in his review of the Ármann Jameson, Jakobsson as being a professor of Icelandic literature, who says that the defect is on this bill, which has, though, made positive changes with the changes made by the smaller parts, that the bill is based on the wrong basis, that the liberal spirit is the best thing to do in making Icelandic, nationalization of Icelands, lands, and so as not to mention the language in the local language. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. We need to make changes in human names, but we do not stand in that way in the way suggested.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u43	Mr. President. I can't support this proposal for a change in human names law. I think it's important to say that more of the General and Education Committee has certainly studied the adjustments made on the subject. Many of them are improving based on the way the matter was presented in the first place, but even though they do, I do not feel that the case is correct. I agree that the law on names of men needs to be revised, but I don't think it's the way to go, so I won't vote for this vote, but I'll pay back.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u44	Mr. President. This was one of the first matters. The General and Education Committee consulted this council. The committee has had 19 meetings on the subject. She has received numerous visitors and many reviews, and her work has been very effective. If the meter is not to be added to members of Congress, God will help the government. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It is a matter of the individual's freedom to control his name. Yesterday, this liberal contemporaneous world agreed that people could rule their offspring. There they agreed to cancel the terms of a man - made law to baptize or name boys boys' names and girls' names. That was no problem for Icelandic tradition. No, it wasn't a problem, but adults being able to control their name is a great problem. [[The president calls.]] Where's liberal? Where is the individual's freedom? Where's the human rights? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u45	A respectable president. All I want to do is make certain contingency techniques clear at this point. Senators. We are now going to vote for 2nd. which means here we deal with the changes in the memory of the object, which is recognized as being good, at least many each. Be a 1st. The bill will be passed so that, as a whole, the whole case will be taken down without giving us the opportunity to vote for the change in the memory of the part. It will be the bill we've put in a form that no one here has suggested that the vote will be paid, but the smaller part will change it in the way it becomes the changes in the memory of the part. That's why I'd like to encourage you. Councilmen who disagree with the case to sit by rather than vote against certain articles of the 2nd issue. If they want to handle it, I'll ask them to do it in the 3rd. so we can vote for the bill in the image it is submitted for the change.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u46	The president wants to state that he has an understanding. In this regard, a senator on the nature of the vote is entitled to 1st. First one, at the end of two. "And when he shall be brought up at all times first, and shall fall one hour. is therefore removed from the program of the then - worked assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u47	A respectable president. A person should be allowed to do whatever he wants as long as it doesn't interfere or not have a negative influence on a third person. Because of words at the top. Just before, I would like to speak directly to her and say: "You don't have to be afraid, Supreme One. The prime minister does not have to fear because more freedom for me in this matter does not interfere with your freedom. There's nothing to be afraid of here. This is no irreversible destruction of nature, irreversible possession, or anything like that. It's about the individual's choice. As mentioned earlier, we paid yesterday a vote for sexual autonomy. [[The president calls.]] Why not?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u48	A respectable president. Again, I call attention to the fact that this is a review of the case in which no one is opposed, so I know. There is no reason to vote against this change. Be a 1st. ...really, changed or not, the matter will fall away without a vote on the changes itself. I'm going to use a word that is sometimes used in the high Council, the word "grabbit." There's a good blow in some things, but there's a bad blow in other things. I find it a very bad idea for the council to drop a bill along with all the adjustments without taking sides in the second district arrangement. How much better it is that opposers of the bill sit by in 2nd! Since they are opposed - of course, it would be best for them to accept at least the adjustments made in terms of improvement and to respond to views that are in the committee's list of objects. It doesn't have to be like this. This matter can be resolved in the 3rd. without doing it with this breech. [[The president calls.]] It's a bad blow if it's what it looks like.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u49	Mr. President. We know that there are very different opinions within the political parties on the freedom of women themselves, and we experienced this very clearly during the days. The left man's premium regarding these changes is also highly predictable and familiar. Today, the freedom of the individual in its pure form is really challenging, not only for 15 minutes before election, but for each opportunity to expand individual freedom. That's why I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u50	V.E.G. President. As soon as I confirm that there is a need for a review of the legislation under consideration here, I feel that things need to grow better and that there must be a bigger conversation in the community on these issues. I think it would be better for the council to slow down in these matters and therefore say no at this vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u51	A respectable president. I have never felt that a vote for the High Council was worse than it was now. In the majority of the section's aluminium, we have to deal with minorities, and most of the parts seem to have missed them. If he saw them, he'll act like he didn't see them. There's talk that there's a lot of work to be done. It's been won a lot. Talking about the bill not being good enough when it came in here? There is a suggestion to improve much after this great work that the council will not even take because the council is now going to vote against the whole bill, with or without a change, without even deciding how to handle the changes. What about those members of Parliament who would like to support the issue of change and not without it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u52	It's been banned.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u53	You can't do that. The matter cannot be won safely. Santa Claus, a respectable president, when men come here and say that this case should be handled well. A unit, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u54	President doesn't like that language. The senators decide their votes and they're responsible, and it's gonna be a bit rough. A senator to accept.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u55	Mr. President. Not now, not like that, not good enough, go slow. This is the reaction of those who think they are liberal, who think they defend their individual freedom - just not now, not like that, go slow. This is without judgment, and I must agree that the Council's strategy for this vote is a real disappointment. I would have thought the council should have shown them the mountains at least. and then change the motions, and take their position on them and on the bill. No, not now, not like this, go slow. The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u56	We'll discuss a bill to set up names. It's a one-rate priority. We vote and, of course, according to our convictions. I find it difficult, Mr. President, for you to hear it out of the Generals' panture for paying votes. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u57	President. There's some strange stuff going on in this hall, and I don't think there's gonna be any members of the council that's going to rob me and that my words are a sign of how ignorant I am. Here we have somehow begun to say to one another why we vote as we do and demand that we do it differently because it doesn't please someone. I've been told I'm not -- what? Freedom, liberalness, and today's side of life must mean that I am a conservative, premeditated toilor. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] People who need a label like that have little to do with anything but the label. I have my opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u58	Good.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u59	Thank you, my dear. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson, to honor me with the privilege of speaking here with sincerity, not for a minute because it couldn't be done, but for 51 seconds. This is the respect we show toward one another. We're saying, "You're doing this because you're so muddled and stupid." [[The president calls.]] I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u60	A respectable president. I bring an opinion of the Committee with a change in bill proposal to correct a change in animal disease law and protection against it. The aforementioned opinion of changing proposals comes from a greater part of the employment committee. The committee has again discussed the matter after 2rd. The majority of the Committee highlights the importance of the approval of the bill in order for Iceland to meet its commitments to the EEA Convention. However, a majority of the measures taken by the above measures are necessary to achieve the first action. In terms of the office of the law, there is an agreement between councils to postpone it to January 1 on January 2020, including to improve emptyness, to work on a food safety programme and to protect livestock stocks. So puts more of this material into place for change. The majority of them consider it desirable that the main stakeholders will regularly be informed about the progress of the action proposed in the Parliament's decision to implement a food safety programme and to protect farm stocks. With reference to the above, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: Section 12. put it this way: This law goes into force on January 1, 2020, except for Article 4, 10 and 11. that already come into force. It's under the heading "Why." The members of the council, the one standing here, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Njáll Trausti Kristjánnsdótir, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Linika Sævarsdóttir Anna, and Njliri Traðri Friðbertsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u61	Madam President. I want 3rd. particularly consider the importance of what is stated in the Committee's list between the 2nd and 3rd. as it is the framed that the Act is suspended to January 1st, 2020. In that room, there's something I think is very important. A minister strives to do what is right. This is in agreement with stakeholders, whether with food products or with those in any health environment, whether doctors, biologicalists or whatever the trade may be. They will be called to the table and given the opportunity to observe the progress of the case at all levels, and particularly with emphasis on the induction of the so-called counter measures, if I recall correctly, 17 or 18 priorities where the intention is to try to prevent them from reaching the level of infection and the possibility of transmission of disease and resistant antibiotic viruses to this country due to cryoprecipitation. Which I must admit is that I am still optimistic about finding a way to cancel in the autumn council. Although the bill assumes that the value will be on January 1, 2020, I am convinced that the group of Independence Class, Front Class, and Left Green will continue through the summer, and the fall will look for all the ways to wind down from the decision that is written here on the matter of opening up unbounded meat. I would like to reiterate the importance of calling the stakeholders to the table and that their viewpoint will be heard, especially if any of the factors that are expected to achieve the strategy are either not to do their own good or have failed to implement and implement the time expected.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u62	V.E.G. President. In celebration of the speech of the roost. paritaprevir Bergþór Oli's Ólason, it is proper to state that the delay in taking effect does not depend on any conditions, i.e. An agreement was made in connection with an agreement on the end of the council to postpone the conversion of the bill to January 1. There were no conditions, and there is no such thing. This means that the bill here for release will be adopted at this spring meeting and it will take effect on January 1 and on the basis of history, needs for decisions that have taken place, and no need to go into detail in the history of the whole world. It is true, however, that this is true. paritaprevir Bergethón Ólason explained, it is also assumed that there will be a regular information program on the interest stakes and after the events of others, which, of course, are of great importance and are relevant to the implementation of the work programme that we discussed earlier today that it is going well. The implications of stakeholders and experts in this field on how to implement this strategy are important. In fact, it may be this way that the minister and his organisation regularly recognizes this situation, for it is, of course, as though they know very important that the plan will be followed closely.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u63	Madam President. We're talking about the fresh meat, a case that's been taking over for years in the Icelandic regime. There have been divisions in the government, as well as in the political opposition that have been in violation of the normal requirements for us to comply with international commitments and even as we must, of course, fulfill what the Supreme Court says and apply what he says. Part of it is this thing that has to do with fresh meat. There have been normal precautions taken into account. We agreed earlier today on a plan of action. I'm on a job committee and I'd like to say that she's done a good job there. Everyone is aware that we need to be careful about consumers and food security. We need to consider farmers, livestock, and, of course, the public health of our Icelanders. The bill doesn't pose a threat to the factors I was talking about. This is not a threat if it is right and as did the Council present, I would like to say it is the right thing to do and if it had been before. What I'm bringing up here, however, is that I'm very sorry to see how practice - this case is related to the way we've been at the end of the last days, and I am especially glad that the head of the Independence Party has made it very difficult for me to see that the element is not dependent on any condition. I've been sorry to experience it - I didn't make any difference because I believe it was important for the prime minister and the government to have a purpose for success, but I put this case, the fresh meat, as one of the issues I wanted to take advantage of at the council and that if it were to be changed, more than the Central Party would be consulted. Because, in a sense, there is a measure of superiority and stubbornness, we can also confirm, in our presence, the surrender of a government to the Central Party was perfect. I know that the Middle-class crew will rejoice if I say that the Middle-class members took the government to some extent. Even though I'm just a little bit of a big spender, maybe not the first and not the second time, that's how this case will go into effect and become the law of January 1, 2020, whatever the middle party will try to draw up in the final meters. What matters to me also regarding the treatment of the whole case is that in this matter, we are making a requirement for ourselves regarding human health, farms, farmers, and consumers, something I would have wanted to see even in the fire. Although many very important and positive steps have been made in terms of increased natural protection requirements and the environmental environment of the fish fire, I would have liked to see the same procedure as being done here. We are making very strict demands on ourselves, our Icelanders, how we provide for these very things, livestock and farmers, as well as on how we also secure their consumers when they both buy their products and have access and choices. The consumers will not be taken into account, and we are ensuring this here, too, by fulfilling the EEA Convention that we will meet in our time, very successful progress, which we obviously need to follow up. It's not like some will in this room, they want to take a case and put it in an army just to weaken the foundations of that important contract. I don't like how, as I say, on the last half of Congress contracts, it's being used in a case. The government and all other members of the council were being tried on sexual autonomy. Happily, however, this is not the case, but it says very much when it comes to using such language to move forward. I don't think it's in the spirit of total, conversation or objective politics. I'd also like to stress that I believe it matters that the General Assembly of Iceland will apply what the Supreme Court says, depending on what the European Court of Human Rights says, although not on this matter, but on other matters. I don't like it when music here, whether by the government or by certain categories in the council, are only suitable and suitable for each occasion, whether or not to enforce the Supreme Court's conclusions. That's why I agree with the government. It's the right thing to do. Naturally, we needed to review points and tips that we needed to consider. It was done, and in part, we have done that. I don't like to see that one group above another has the potential to change such matters with its bullying and inconspicuousness, as was the case. It can be called confirmed, but in these cases I feel that it is indiscretion and bullying. This is something I hope that we, all political parties, will take over at the next assembly. I believe it's time we carefully review everything called a proprietary device. We need to get a better grip on the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u64	Madam President. I won't be talking for long because as the President knows, all of me is willing to help with the progress of Congress. But I can't help but say a few words about this big thing because it's a big deal. In fact, there would have been grounds for much more discussion at the council, but there is now an opportunity at the finish line, perhaps the second - last day of the Senate service. This is a matter of fundamental interest in one of the basic projects of the country, an article that has been a basic work done in the country, and actually in the country from the beginning. Sadly, this issue is just another step out of too many that have led to the development of this basic work. Icelandic agriculture is now experiencing threats from many places at the same time. There is an ever greater demand for equipment and practices in Icelandic agriculture, and they are closely followed, perhaps even hard to say. At the same time, a toll agreement has been made with the European Union, which proved to be extremely adverse to us Icelanders. At the same time, consumerism is changing in a way that makes it more difficult for Iceland and the Icelandic Food Manufacturers to cope with, and then it is added to the massive impact of the bill intended for the Council to lead to law. How does a comment feel? paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Gunnarsdóttir's Katrín, the president of Reunion, who was very useful in various ways, as I come in only after, about the recording and that the value is not required is correct, but I hope that as many people will use the time to find a better conclusion, a better solution to this case, allowing us to improve the mistakes made by the Council to accept this matter, reverse the matter, and accept a new and better case, possibly by some complicitive action that would be necessary to make it possible for us to do so. This work will be done, not only by the Icelandic food producers, but also by the government, the recruitment, and the administrative systems. Because I mentioned earlier what? paritaprevir I found this to be useful to my Gunnarsdóttir, Katrín's Þorgerður, because she expressed a sincere attitude. I'm not beinglittled at what I'm doing. A senator, chairman of the convention, described its sincere stand and everything in his speech. A senator was in harmony with what I have heard from that category. On the other hand, what's really concerned me about the matter is that I, though all three governments, to the extent that their members have relied on to express themselves on the subject, are moving to the Recreation line, and when it comes to farming matters, it is not a good thing to do. They're even here using the Revolutionary Scorpio that we have to do this just because we want to be such a good participants in international cooperation. We must - when I say, I mean to us Central Classes and government members, their members - to want that international cooperation to be in ways that we can defend the basic work of our Icelanders, not least the Icelandic agriculture and food productions. Because much is referred to the EEA Convention for a discussion of the matter, it can be noted that there was a large debate on how it would affect one of the European seas and other Icelandic agriculture. But we Icelanders were told not to worry because they were not under the contract. The proponents of Iceland in the lawsuits that have been mentioned in connection with this case have pointed to this, both during and after the lawsuit, that the European Court's case of this case was false. The lawyer Stefánsson describes the outcome of the situation as incorrect, especially since it is the European Union and its extension, ESA, extending beyond the level of authority established by the EEA Convention. This raises two questions, whether governments are willing to do what is needed to protect our basic work projects and whether they are not prepared to take any steps to respond to the growing European Union's appeals and institutions associated with the establishments of the sovereignty of the nations that these institutions have to say or what to say. Evolution is obvious. This is one of the most outstanding examples of human growth. If we are not willing to respond to this big business of interest, which involves not only basic activities but also health in the country and is not ready to show any resistance that may be bound to the European Union's appeal on such important matters, we must be concerned about what lies ahead. You can't help it, Madam President, but put it in touch with another big case we've discussed at the council. Actually, I did it only for a second round. But there is good reason to recall the irony of it, as we members of the Parliament are told, that it is safe to accept the third energy package because there are some warnings or examples. The search for them still exists, but we have been told that they exist, that there are warnings that enable us to accept that matter. At the same time, the government shows up on this matter and acknowledges that it thought we had a warning, a real legal warning that would hold us back, but it is told that it is not the case, and then it must just give in. What would it tell us about what might be expected of the energy package if this is the attitude in which there were actual legal warnings, however, in terms of those outside the EEA Convention? Is anyone supposed to believe that supposed survivors, possibly in a report, may have something to say about how the energy package will be introduced to the future? I'd also like to mention another point that I briefly entered through 2nd. on this matter, and this is the importance of this sector, agriculture, other employment projects and the country's population. This situation cannot be considered isolated, as humans sometimes tend, saying that it operates only as well as so many farm equipment, because agriculture is the foundation of employment and is inhabited in many parts of the country. If agriculture is not still available in areas where agriculture is still present, it would not be merely less productive, it would not be present in many places. It is not just a matter of this particular industry and how important it is, of course, to be with that article. Rather, it is the matter of the settlements around the country. So only consumer business, Madam President. It is quite unique when a person allows himself either directly or indirectly to install Icelandic food production, as some form of consumer opposers. The support of the state's Icelandic food industry, by Icelandic agriculture, is a consumer support. He is, in fact, a contribution to health, a contribution to the economy to sustain and strengthen independent and strong economic systems. Allowing yourself to tear things apart like this and try to cross people's classes against other people is extremely unfortunate politics, I would call it "populism." Sadly, this kind of paper is far too prominent today and is on hand with the media and discussions. We who appreciate the importance of agriculture and a wide range of employment in Iceland must try to resist this growing poopism. Finally, Madam President, I find a reason, because much is referred to international cooperation in this matter's discussion, to point to the fact that I had considered to be more obvious, that there are not many countries, not many developed countries, who do not see reason to protect their own food production through the instruments available to use. Of course it's all about the European Union, Madam President. Can we not agree on that? The European Union is a toll union that builds toll barriers. Iceland has a much more free business policy with countries other than the European Union. There are few if several countries have signed free trade agreements with so many countries. Forced tolls and expenditures are generally lower than in the European Union. If the European Union does not provide protection for its internal agriculture, its food production, do you know how much European taxpayers put in maintaining agriculture there, in fact, in an extremely unfavourable way, where human beings are always paid to not produce? The money usually comes, not to families, but to big companies, not just factories, but to the big companies who own it. These companies are paid, especially for not producing valuables. Do we want to move to that arrangement? Do we want to be open to the fact that this, in the delicate Icelandic market, will be flushed beyond production from subsidized European factories? That cannot be acceptable to us. If we agree on what I hope we can be, we must draw a line into the sand, and in the circumstances I described here, where there is an Icelandic agriculture from many places at the same time, we cannot allow it to interfere with such a thing as this to pass through with nothing except some common so - called countermeasures that we don't know what will pass. We must use the time now that continues until the seasons to evaluate whether there may be no means of life, -- I believe they exist, of course, we will look at this considerably - to get out of this situation. Then the government - I hope the government simply takes the initiative - the opportunity to bring a new bill to a council in the fall that reverses the laws that men want to take on the bill. If the approval that I fear will be true, the government will have the opportunity to undo the laws and solutions that have fallen to the goal of defending the Icelandic agriculture, the Icelandic food production, the Icelandic economy, the food and food security of the nation, and thus an Icelandic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u65	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank you for your last speaker, please. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, for his interest in this matter. I would have liked to see the middle-class interest in this case sooner, I didn't get much out of him in the planning process, and I think there are others. Senators who came to work on the case would agree with me on this matter. But better is late than never and what. A senator introduced a number of interesting issues. In this brief talk, I do not plan to spend much time discussing the Middle Party. Rather, I wonder how I see the future with the bill and the adjustment proposed. How I can picture the future as a food producer after the implementation of these laws and when the process of changing will be established. It all hangs out, it's the bill and the motion change. Those who have watched the strategy we discussed earlier and have voted to know that there are an enormous number of good tools in my mind who will do nothing but support Icelandic production and make it even more competitive than it is today to the import that is expected. Why do I say that? When it comes to making demands for someone else, you should always start by making the most demands on yourself. In this respect, we are doing this with regard to Icelandic food production. I also reiterate that we're not just talking about meat, we're talking about all the foods that are produced in the country, including vegetables. There are tremendous opportunities for Icelandic veggie producers to blow on the offensive, for so far, a huge amount of vegetables is introduced into the country. A sample, so random, has been taken from the products brought here and found in it all kinds of non-shares. By means of the bill we are discussing, we will ban distribution of goods containing certain multi-drug resistant bacteria. It's a big step, but it's not that we all need - the situation in Iceland - to take us seriously, too. It has been in recent news that we have found a variety of bacteria, minor bacteria in the lips we are producing. But it is a challenge for Icelandic food producers to deal with it. I have full faith that it can be done. There's a big misunderstanding going on when we're talking about this. The second word says that we're just going to get flushed in all sorts of factory meat that doesn't have the quality we're going to have. But I can't better understand this bill and the adjustment proposal we're discussing to prevent it. You can't just move in here. We're making demands on the food coming here. A respectable president. It's supposed to be our next day at the council. I suppose more people would like to take up this discussion, and I'm not going to put up with this much longer, but I just want to reiterate that Icelandic farmers do not fear international competition from abroad, i.e. If the competition is on the basis of equality, that's the key. All talk about other things is just wrong. True, in the early stages of this case, it was rather negative and I understand it well, but I also need to remember that the bill has made huge changes in the processing of the employment committee, changes for the better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u66	Madam President. You cannot help it when a farmer speaks up with his knowledge, experience, and perspective - a candidate with all his history - but to listen. We are benefited when we discuss such important matters as what is discussed here, the so - called fresh meat, to hear what it is. A senator has a presentation. I admit, just as I could in the past, being on a professional committee, that I was very suspicious first. I thought there were various ways of preventing us from actually taking what both the Supreme Court and the EEA Convention on this matter. But I am convinced of that, as it were. Senator, that we've been taking reasonable steps. Naturally, we have considered some of the factors that have caused us to think about. That's right. That's right. A senator said that many people had serious doubts. In my opinion, the work of the Senate is very much the same as saying: " We are taking the right and the wise course of action. ' What matters most to me is that we support Icelandic agricultural production. We're stressing that it is and will remain a foundation built here on the land. It not only supports the settlement but also supports other employment, tourism, and I'm convinced that agriculture will become one of the main vertebrates of the short and long - term tourism itself. There's got to be a lot of teamwork in between. I'd like to ask you what. Senator two questions. How can you tell? A senator developed the cooperation of agriculture and tourism? And is it not clear that with this strategy that we agreed on earlier today, we are supporting the EU agricultural production so that there will be a number of parishes ahead if the rights are right? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u67	Madam President. Thank you for questions from what? paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín. They may not be easy to answer in two minutes, but I'll try. In agriculture and tourism, we certainly have tremendous opportunities, and then we can look to what humans are developing all the time, i.e. Straight from the farm. Then, in the case of mass tyres and larger touristism, I know it quite well as the former chairman of sheep farmers, and it also knows the nature. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir as former agricultural minister, was assigned to a job related to a sheep's contract, which was performed in the marketing of only foreign tourists. I am referring to the work of sheep farmers in restaurants throughout the country. That assignment made it possible for us, Icelandic consumers, to have a lamb roast at the best restaurants in town. Sadly, at one point it was not possible, so the interaction of all these factors has an impact. Certainly, the setting we're creating here today is the direct and indirect support of Icelandic agriculture. But we are also making demands for Icelandic farming. We should always bear in mind that here we are also making the most demands on ourselves and our production because we are going to be in the first place.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u68	Madam President. I think that it is exactly the thinking that we do our own standards, whether in agriculture or in other areas, which are important. I was talking about fishing earlier. We need to take care of ourselves, whether in the field of environmental protection or in other aspects related to the sector. That's how we'll be in the front of the class. When I say that I and others have many opportunities for agriculture, it is simply because we have such a product, and our country supports our idea that we will turn to consumers of environmental security, good products, whether it is lamb, vegetables, or other productions within the agricultural field. Therefore, we must continue to support the Icelandic agriculture. On the other hand, I also demand an Icelandic farm. Happily, he will be entering another environment, in part with this matter. Of course, we also need to set aside time and space for Icelandic agriculture to get into the competition properly. I can completely understand the fear of the farmers that we can't even enter a competition at once, but we can't give a discount of the requirement, for the production itself, for farmers and consumers as well, that we're going into a healthy environment of agriculture. Because I'm talking about the business environment, and there are a lot of farmers and consumers trying to put their interests together. We have to have the courage to say, "Yes, we're going to continue supporting the Icelandic agriculture. " I'm not afraid to say that I'm even ready to support him more, as long as we have clear rules, strengthen farmers, but do not put the power first into the system itself to sustain the intermediate. [[The president calls.]] I think this needs to go to farms and less into the middle and the system itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u69	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter for her introductorys. This may not have been a direct question to me, but I'm just going to enter a foreign competition from abroad. We need to keep in mind that we have been competing abroad for many years. It's not anything new that's happening. We're just gonna play by other rules than we've done so far. It is not especially surprising that this is also a import. There is an enormous import already on the other farm products. But with what we're talking about now, this bill and changes, we expect the product that's moved into the country. We are not making any demands on the foreign goods that have been brought to us today. Monitoring is low, there is a lack of meaning, etc. However, we are taking great steps to protect the health of farms, the public health of Icelanders and food security. These are the key elements. I'm not afraid of this. The future of Icelandic agriculture and food production is bright, and I have full faith that once all of this is done, there will be only one application in Icelandic agriculture.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u70	President. I'd like to briefly introduce this subject, perhaps because I am the kind of person who wants us to base our questions and decisions on facts. In view of the discussion that has been overlooked by some. I am moved to review some undisputed facts before today, but it may be political fashion to ignore the facts, to pretend that what has happened has not happened if it suits a man's own cause. There's a couple of them. The members of Congress responded as part of this strategy so that it is about some independence struggle, some of the muscles of true Iceland against the wicked stranger who intends to move us to do all harm. Same thing. Congress officials do not comment on the sole cause of this matter, i.e. ... torepairthemocy that this is the answer to, is the Supreme Court, a sentence from Iceland's Supreme Court. Somehow, it's not fit for a lawsuit. Senators. I hope now they respect the Supreme Court of Iceland's decision more than any other court from abroad mentioned here. It's not about beating your ass and saying, "I'm the greatest Icelander. I will support and support Icelandic farming and commercial farmers. Kiss me, and everything will be clean and beautiful. Let's show these bad foreigners into two worlds. It's not about that, it's about whether we're dealing with the Supreme Court of Iceland's Supreme Court or ignoring the Supreme Court of Iceland. Then it is also about negotiations. This has been a ridiculed statement on the customs agreements that this is part of, so to speak, at the very least, the import of device products. The terrible toll agreements are spoken of, not to negotiate with the dreaded European Union, and it is associated with some other matter, the President, whose energy is involved because it is suitable to create this web, because it is suitable for this particular problem. Councilmen putting themselves on that sofa. What are these customs? When did they start? What minister of state was it that said of the controversial customs agreements, by permission of presidents: ▪ This is a cause for joy for Icelandic consumers who will see instead in reduced food prices and exporters who will undoubtedly take advantage of opportunities in these contracts. What minister of foreign affairs was also saying, by permission of the president: The Union provides an opportunity for agriculture in Iceland to feel on the market in Europe with new products, such as meat. At the same time, the contract responds to an urgent need for more imports to the EU for sliding but also for lamb. In terms of EU import clearance to Iceland, I believe that its scope is not to be feared by agriculture. Icelandic agriculture is stronger than that. This is a bold speech given by the highest power. Secretary of state called Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson. What the government did to the highest. Sveinsson Yes, he was in the government of Sigmundur Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, who closed these customs contracts on September 17, 2015, and now act here as if they somehow fell from the air in the arms of some Links now in control and are being overcome by foreign authority. This isn't possible, Mr. President. You cannot speak that way in this respectable institution, as if fact and reality were of no longer important importance. The government now in power, the government of its three classes, is by their actions in bringing Iceland into the highest order in terms of fighting one of the world's greatest disasters and health institutions around the world, of antibiotic resistance. We're getting even further here, getting in the top row, and there's something other governments might have done, to almost every plan in this operation program could have been taken, including by government anyway. paritaprevir The Sigmurs of Gunnlaugsson Gunougsson. It wasn't done. However, it is being done now. I thought and I hoped we could discuss this operation plan fairly, perhaps with a little hope, because we're taking a good step here, that we're not using this case here as the source of our political fire to get ourselves up because this is a good thing, Mr President. I think that everyone in this hall can join us in saying that this is a good thing that we should have, therefore, be able to handle if we were reasonable. But I guess we're not all reasonable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u71	A respectable president. I can't help but come up here and discuss this case because there's been an indirectly discussed with other issues, such as why. 3.m. That's the north side. left here before, i.e. The third pack of energy, especially warnings mentioned there. I hope now. Because I am not related to a matter, members of the council show me a little patience. The problem is, these matters have been circled together in the discussion and I think it's very important, not just because of the third energy package, but because of the problem, that it's solved. It is wrong, in one word, that this is the same issue or that it is the same as the one who has to check the third energy package. The third energy package speaks of warning, and I'm going to try to avoid considering them specifically, but when the opponents of the third energy package have spoken at the Council, they refer to this case in the frozen meat case as it is called, to show that there is no warning, that the warning is just foreclosure bullshit. First, this emphasizes a misunderstanding. Councilmen on the energy package themselves and the nature of the warnings they have set there. Second, they are warnings given in all respects different from those involved in this issue. The warnings given in the third energy package are said, by the enemies listed here, to be that the EEA or the EU will only ignore them and will not be concerned, and, of course, misunderstand that it is EEA or EU to assess it when it is not. It is appreciated by the European Court of Justice to consider it and to treat it with the opinion of the Constitutional Constitution of certain branches that follow the specific forms of the third energy package. The rules set to prevent the import of frozen meat were not condemned as the EEA or the EU failed to ignore priors from Iceland. It's just not like that. The temporary terms Iceland received were revised and removed. In other words, Iceland committed itself to complying with the requirements that make it impossible for the import of frozen meat to be allowed. Iceland agreed, the government agreed, the Council agreed. It was not that the Council decided something else, and some bad foreigners somehow turned us down. No, negotiations started, and as with all negotiations, the pros and cons, both of them have something to sacrifice and receive in return, and in Iceland's case it was assessed as a service to Iceland's interests to carry out fish to the European Union on the same terms, i.e. so that other nations do not have an indiscriminate way to prevent our access to their markets. That's how a deal works, a respectable president. That's how the EEA works, and that's why the EEA is good because it removes chemical barriers from markets, guarantees access to other people's access to our markets, just as it did ours. It's fair, it's healthy, that's how business works. I find it so strange how it somehow goes back in fashion, especially by reason of what it's done. The members of the Central Party are opposed to any commercial venture. When did it suddenly get so bad when it became a business venture between countries? When did it get a taboo and something negative, like there's some sort of independence issue for Iceland that they don't move in here or something moved out? Of course, we want to move in and move out, which is likely to mean that we want to do so on the basis of some reasonable rule that all business partners can accept and divorce in a common way. That's what the EEA is about. That is also the third energy package, and that is also the case. I feel a little rough. Central Party senators either make no effort to think or listen to these matters or deliberately ignore these key points. I don't know which is, and it's not my place to measure, as it were. Another thing I'd like to mention is that this is often set up so that somehow it's Iceland against the EEA as if Icelandic interests are all united in the debate of the Central Party or others who speak at the top of the third energy package and similar matters. There's nothing like that. Icelandic people complained to the EEA in those days because of the alleged violations of treaties. It was Icelandic interests that complained to the EEA and the EEA answered to protect their interests, their interests in the Icelandic institutions that wanted to import frozen meat. Also, it was an Icelandic person who later wanted to import frozen meat when it went to the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court judged them in favor of the Icelandic government, thanks to the EEA. For the reasons to prevent the import of frozen meat, the EEA Convention is offering complete restrictions in case of chemical reasons, such as in 13. The European Convention itself, which I have to sort of read here, a respectable president, by permission: verses 11 and 12. does not prevent import, import, or transfer of product bans or seas justified by the general morality, universal rule, public security, human health and animal health or protection, protection from national prices, having artistic, historical or ancient values, or protecting industrial and commercial rights. Such bans or restrictions, however, must not lead to arbitrary discrimination or to cover up trades between parties. And it is the whole point, to avoid extreme discrimination or cover up restrictions. If there are some restrictions, such as the fact that the import of frozen meat is somehow dangerous to the health of animals and humans, a assessment of whether it is food should be made. Furthermore, a decision must be made whether to achieve the same objective to protect the health of animals and humans by other means. The conclusion was that it would be possible and therefore this would be hidden from the EEA Convention. In other words, we did not have good reason to use these specific restrictions. This was determined by Iceland's Supreme Court and EFTA for the same reason that we would want courts and EFTA to come to the same conclusion if we were subjected to comparable business restrictions, we would have access to fish as an example, or energy, if that is the case. I just wanted to keep this a good time, a respectable president. Free business is by nature good. It is not a solution to the problems of the whole world. They are not good regardless of what they are, but basically they are good at what they are. It is not a threat to Iceland's independence that things can be imported and exported. It is not a threat to Iceland's independence that there are common rules between national states that are involved in the trades of available cargo transport and the provision of freedom. It was only in the light of a talk. 3.m. That's the north side. I thought it was my duty to come up here and mention this. I studied the matter primarily because of the discussion of the third energy package, which made me feel that I had run into a wrong case because it was so inconsistencies with the debate from then on. Senator on the third energy package, completely incompatible. I felt that I must be reading the wrong thing, but of course it was the right thing to do. It was just a w-w-w. The members of the Central Party, once again out of the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u72	Madam President. I see the President assigns me only five minutes. This will be enough, though, for more time to respond to the above - mentioned talks, now the last talk. paritaprevir The Hrafn Höfánns Gunnarsson characterized me as one of the superiors the Pirates have to show in a talk chair, but we have become accustomed to it. What I wanted, though, first of all, is my second talk to the 3rd. is that we must not fear it, as it sounds to some of our previous speakers during the discussion, to defend Icelandic interests, and to get rid of them here and set things up so that they are talking about foreigners being evil and some other such bullshit. All nations more and less, I think, probably all, will defend their interests and business dealings, to form a business on the basis of the EEA Convention, must protect their interests. It's only natural. The fact that when we Icelanders allow us to defend our interests, it involves some disrespect for foreigners, of course, that is completely unscrupulous. If this were to be the policy, if it were to be the dominant attitude that you fear could become, we will be vulnerable because other nations will continue to defend their own interests and will not be ashamed of it. In the case of the European Union, as I spoke earlier, it is a tax alliance that places tolls and charges on goods far beyond what Iceland does. I don't think that's the result of someone who hates other Europeans. I don't feel like the person we've heard in the preceding talks. Since it is normal for nations to protect their interests, we need Icelanders to do the same. Icelandic agriculture is faced with protection, being removed from different directions, whether because of changing circumstances or for the sake of the tax agreement I mentioned earlier. I don't know if it was done on purpose or whether. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttirsson Proppé simply did not know the facts, yet there has been a considerable debate over the media, that the tax agreement was not made in the government at its time before its approval. [[Up front.]] He was approved by the then agricultural minister who announced the matter during the evening news, where other ministers first heard the agreement, a contract that has been extremely adverse to us, and the market is expected to switch it to kilograms, to 300,000 people, and to 500 million people. As a result, it is reasonable to reconsider that agreement. Although I have only less than two minutes left, I also have to mention what is stated earlier in the discussion that is somewhat related to claims that those who want to defend Icelandic interests are against foreigners, who are the obsessions of some members of the EEA Convention and that it is hardly possible to talk about potential failures, although it is with the goal of improving cooperation. So it was mentioned in a talk in the past as a special cause for joy that the Icelandic people had used a contract to demand a government reform, an improvement of more than 3 billion dollars. These were not the least of the Icelandic conservatory. How was this figure found? However, would it not be that they have concluded that this was the amount they would have had the opportunity to achieve, the profits they would have made because the bill we are discussing has not been introduced? Where would that benefit come from? Icelandic farmers, from Icelandic food producers. As we have heard from the previous speakers, let us avoid the pompian bloc and talk about the importance of defending Icelandic interests. They certainly do, and they expect the Icelanders to do the same for their business.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u73	A respectable president. I'm going to try to make it clear why people get the feeling of it. A senator and his squad think it's always Iceland against some stranger. The reason is simple. Hv. A senator speaks that way. He sets a symbol of the same relationship between approaching matters from his side and defending Icelandic interests. I was standing here speaking for Icelandic interests but because of what I was doing. A senator doesn't look like that, he's so quick to put in his own pocket Icelandic interests, as if Iceland is somehow part of his view of the EEA partnership and his view of how international transactions should work when it's just not the case. Hv. At the same time, a senator recognizes that there were Icelandic people and Icelanders whose rights were broken and protected by the Supreme Court and EFTA, who act as if there were no money involved. It is this tendency always to set things up in the face of the wicked call. Of course, the good man is always me or us, always 1st person. The bad guy is always a 2nd person in a single or an odd number. It's super-simplified, and I know it's true. A senator would never agree with such a world view. Hv. However, a senator does speak that way when he always acts as his approach to Icelandic interests, while ensuring free trade between countries, with the advantages and failings of contracts, he is somehow valuable to Icelandic interests. This is why people get the sense of it. A senator and his company always act like foreigners are trying to grab Iceland and take it over or take over Iceland's interests when it's not in the past, like that we here who have spoken are not also defending Iceland's interests. That sounds like a foreigner. That's how it sounds. Hv. A senator will come up here and say he isn't. Okay, but that's how it sounds. I hope so. A senator understands that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u74	Madam President. I can't really help how things sound in the head. Senator. [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator apparently sets his own understanding of life and what he hears, but he cannot expect all others to take care of his mind and tip in such a way that he does not get some strange understanding of what humans are saying. Hv. A senator came here and said that he was taking care of Iceland's interests, as if he thought they were best on the job. I wouldn't even think to hurt him. A senator of being an opponent of foreigners, even though he comes here to admit he wants to care for Iceland's interests. Can we not agree, then, that we do not agree on how this will be done best? What I've been pointing out here is that all nations, including In business relationships, defending our interests, and we have nothing to be shy about saying that we want to do the same. All nations spend more and less their professional activities, and we should not be shy to say that we want to defend Icelandic industry. This does not mean that people are opposed to business dealings between nations. Hv. A senator mentioned free trade. In fact, business is not generally totally free, but one party makes a deal, and the other party gives something and the other in return. In fact, business ventures have not been as free as they were in 1913 when freedom in business dealings reached a climax. They have never reached the same level as they did, but men make deals, and Iceland has made more contracts than likely any other country and has more free trades with other countries than most other countries, a much more free trade than to form the European Union. But we must still want to protect the interests we believe that these contracts will guarantee us, and it was Iceland's position that we should not introduce the laws that the government is now trying to pass through the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u75	A respectable president. I like it. A senator just underscores my point. There's no shyness in saying that we're supposed to protect Iceland's interests. No one's ever come and objected. No one's even spoken against us saying that we're here to serve and defend Iceland's interests. We are all here to do so. It's undisputed. It doesn't need to be taken care of. That's clear. But already it is. A senator makes his stand as Iceland's interests and other positions as something other than Iceland's interests, that sounds like a bad idea. A senator considers Iceland's interests to be a permanent conflict between us getting what we want and getting what others want, and that it is not possible to cooperate with other countries, with the advantages and weaknesses that come with all the contracts, without some sort of bullying between the foreigners, the EU and the EEA I mean, with Iceland. That's what it's like. A senator makes it sound like this. I'll protect Iceland's interests and say it here loud and smart, and I'll tell you what. Senator: I've never had anyone ever cared for me to be afraid of foreigners, never in my entire life. I don't have that problem. Why not? Because I'm not putting Iceland's interests up as an alternative to foreign interests. There's a senator who does it repeatedly. It is the interests of the Icelanders to import frozen meat. It is not automatically the interests of Icelanders not to do so. I'm hoping this will be clear. Icelanders are not some united core, all of which have exactly the same interests as not foreigners. I can only repeat myself, and I'm not going to do it, Mr. Honorable President, and save my time, I hope that this will one day become clear. Hv. A senator, I just have to say: I don't have the problem that I'm always being misunderstood as if I'm somehow terribly afraid of foreigners. I've never had a problem. I wonder, a respectable president, in view of the fact that here I come to defend Iceland's interests, loud and clever: Why not?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u76	Mr. President. I'm amazed at what you're doing. A senator is afraid of foreigners. [[Up front.]] Well, somebody's already said that. Has it become true now? These are the natural paradigms presented here. The fact that people defend their interests in business and that interests are not always shared does not mean that they are opposed to foreign trades or to foreigners over their heads. Hv. A senator mentioned earlier that in view of the high court's decision to the Icelandic people and to get the $3 billion or what damage it is now taking on Icelandic interests. All right, certain Icelandic interests. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] Actually, I think about what I'm doing. A senator and his associates and many other categories, at least The U.S. government, would call it a speciality, Icelandic speciality. Who did these benefits come from? Is that not the first place in the United States? If I have to choose between being a politician to defend either interest - it's not, like, why. A senator seems to think that everyone's interests always go together - if I have to spend either first and foremost the interests of an Icelandic collective dealer or mainly the interests of the European Farmers and the Food Manufacturers and the Food Manufacturers, I think it is more important for the community to focus on protecting the interests of farmers than on protecting the interests of the entire race and in particular celebrating that it has been the Icelandic collective halls that have been improved on the basis of the EEA Convention. [[Up front.]] For what? For not getting enough money by walking in Icelandic food production. [[Up front.]] Mr. President. It must be obvious that, even if it is generally accepted and accepted by people, likely all at the Generals, that trade is generally of the good, so to speak, to defend one's interests when it comes to making contracts and that interests do not always go together in all matters, people look for ways to reach a conclusion that all parties can enjoy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u77	Mr. President. I recommend an extension party on behalf of a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee on the bill for the Council of Iceland and a bill to compromise the law on various laws due to the cooperation of the National Association and the SEC. The 2nd. about the bill, the 1st minority of the Committee proposed a transition to a bill for the Council of Iceland's Bank onjaw. 1829 and now she's on deck. 1885. It is proper to draw attention to it. In the first place, the requirement for a representative of the Federal Bank Council is to be increased, secondly, that the work of the Bank of Bank should be further defined, thirdly, that the management of the FESI Commission will usually be performed at the hands of the financial bank manager instead of the bank manager, fourthly, that there should be an improvement in the effectiveness of the UN Bank report, fifthly, that a further assessment of the Federal Bank is conducted at five-year intervals and sixthly that within the two-year balance of this law - I think that it is indeed before the end of 2021 - the trial of the Sea Bank's Committee should be performed. Mr. President. Other than that, I would like to refer to the committee's opinion that some adjustments are considered, but they are most unlikely to indicate that the change in terms of 1. smaller things did not occur at 2 Corinthians. and has now been restored. The majority of the Economic and Business Committee supports all the changes proposed by the 1st smaller objects and recommends the approval of all of them. It should also be noted that the members of the administration board suggest that both the bills will be accepted as follows. Under this view, the one that stands here, Óli Björn Kárason, and why. The residue of Braun the son of Níelsson, Bryndís, the daughter of Haraldsdóttir, the daughter of Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, Silja Dögg, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, the Smári Mccarthy, and the Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u78	Mr. President. That's what we'll probably vote on later tonight. What we've been wondering about at the moment. The Economic and Business Committee is whether an independent bank of the entire financial watch will be stronger to cope with future traumas. There are differing opinions on the committee. I am one of those who strongly doubt that this is a good step. A full perspective on the risk system and the strong monitoring of the financial sector is necessary but the way to the maximum. But the government wants to go, in my opinion, is likely to weaken financial control and create distrust in Iceland's Federal Bank. In addition, financial management will be at the Federal Bank and the bank will carry out financial policies and promote financial stability. In this way, big and national important tasks are to be combined under one institution. This is not the most widely discussed route in recent years and recommended, i.e. to unite national economists and dictatorials in the Federal Bank while the SEC continues to maintain commercial and consumer protection in an independent institution. One of the lessons of the financial crash is the importance of a clear understanding between those in charge and those who have the means to secure financial stability. The General Assembly of the Federal Committee, all of which are likely to do, will become a highly powerful, independent institution, and although only then it is likely that politicians wish to influence the activities of such an institution. Therefore, I have warned that rather than making a professional assessment at the counsel of officials, a group of political interests would be motivated by two prime ministers and a financial minister. It is not only the United States that has warned of this danger, but it has not only been warned by national and foreign experts that there should be a careful return to the earth. I'm going to share a clue recently published in Gylfi Zoëgi's article. The reviews made by the Commission warned that business care would be subjected to an independent bank and all because bank managers must be able to use and make decisions that might be unpopular for politicians, decisions that have long - term benefits but not serve the short - term interests of politicians or classes, in order to form for elections. The concern of a high reputation bank that does business management is not out of the open. It is good to remember what happened when the Federal Bank was committed to the Department of Pension and how they handled the Federal Bank and the Samherja case. Trust in the bank's bank is very important, and in a small country it may be short of personal conflicts and what damages the bank's reputation. It is proper to remind you that in all the Norwegian countries, financial control is an independent agency. We in the lesser part of the Economic and Business Committee wondered if it would not have been better if the joint consultations of the World Bank and the SEC had been developed and a contract had been reinforced in this regard, information collection and information development will be combined, a common database, as well as a computer system, and paid for a flow of information between the existing institutions and the perspectives of both, but not combined. This would have been such a small step that could have been taken because it is important that these institutions work very well together, have access to the same information, and that the information flow between them is good. Another possibility would have been to unite in the first step of national response and money policy, based both on the economic analysis of national economics, create one new bank manager and national economists, receive an external assessment from foreign sources, and assess the results after one year or so, and then take the possible step described in chapter V of the bill on financial monitoring for an independent step after the results of previous cooperation. This is a follow-up of individual organisations, business practices, etc. and is performed largely by lawyers. What was the third best thing in this position was our opinion in part 1st, for the change in the bill that could work as a sort of security valve for the operation and also for maintenance. We worked with what? A senator, chairman of the Economic and Business Committee, Óli Kárason Kálæksson, and representatives of the greater part of the development programme. 1884 and they are really good for me. What a joy it is that the members of the committee were reached with so much solidarity! As I mentioned earlier, they deal with national and foreign experts who have a wide range and cover all the fields, including financial surveillance, and they monitor their activities every five years, first 2022. The secretary should also report to the Council after one year and evaluate the situation, as stated in temporary regulations. It's about the access of the bank manager to the F.O.R. It comes in only when specific matters are discussed, but not already. Business management is being discussed. It will then discuss the role of the financial Council, as well as its role and knowledge that the Council should fit in when the Council chooses it. Although I object to the case and have described it in this and in my previous talks, the adjustments are certainly improving. I'd like to allow myself on behalf of the 1st smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee to thank the head of the Commission for our cooperation and for not only having responded well to our new proposals but also made them better than they were when we first recommended them. I thank you for our cooperation in this regard, and we will, of course, vote with our own suggestions, even though the whole bill doesn't please us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u79	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the speech. There are a lot of things in this bill. Still, what I want to know and ask. The senator is whether she can better explain to me who will supervise this new agency, i.e. monitors the provision of a very large market member. Can it explain just how the monitoring should be performed?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u80	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. After this change, the agency will be large and powerful, as I mentioned in my speech. Who's gonna monitor this? is a classic question and does not apply merely to the Pentateuch. The late bank becomes an independent institution and has a special position in this regard, but by installing the external menu, we also have an idea of how the function works. It is a sort of external assessment where the situation is taken and here, the lawgiver, if this important agency does not function as expected. That is why this adjustment proposal 1 is less important. In addition, more of the items we've put together here were expected to include bank managers and vice bank managers prior to these important committees and to review their status. It also includes care and supervision.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u81	I appreciate the answer. I'll use this opportunity to ask you why. Senator: Can you explain to me what is involved in the word financial building?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u82	Mr. President. Now I feel like I'm in a verbal test. Instead of going into explanations and definitions of terms used to include In a paper with this bill, I'd like to offer you why. A senator for coffee in the cafeteria, and we'll go over it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u83	Mr. President. We'll talk here at the 3rd. a bill to legalize the Bank of Iceland as well as a bill to legalize a so-called bandorm on the same subject. As other speakers have introduced the matter, why? A financial and business committee has a number of discussions. I believe we have an excellent landing on the case, including... by the memory of the committee by means of the necessary changes to be made. 1885 and a what? paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kármson used to talk about quite a few things before and also about what. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir. I mean, in many respects, it is exemplary that even in the face of conflict, people can unite in this way and that despite conflict, they can cross the threshold and give political strength to help those who do not agree with them to improve the issues they are making and to take advantage of them. In a sense, this is a cause for great rejoicing. I believe it will be a big, powerful institution. She's gonna have a pretty good perspective on the financial market, and that's a good thing. Men have wondered a bit that this institution will not get anything from outside. Several members of the council have made their entry. I believe, however, that the tools to make up the three committees, the money policy committees, the financial Commission and the financial status committees, that they need to report to the council or appear to the Senate committees, one of them twice a year and the other ones once, are very useful and will actually be monitored by the committees. I think the educational duties laid on the Secret Bank on the bill will help inform the public and maybe politicians as well as on what is really happening inside the Agency. I think it's a good idea. On the other hand, I object to it as long as possible. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir came in earlier, that with this bill, there is an increased risk of political orders. I don't agree with that. The bank manager's orders and the equipment under the order of the bank manager and the vice bank manager are the same as in the 2009 law. I believe that there could be some pessimism in thinking that creating a powerful institution could increase the risk of political interference. I think much more that this is actually taking bigger and more powerful steps in making the Agency a strong independent institution that will ensure that the tasks entrusted to it will be carried out professionally. So, as indicated in the committee opinion, I will support the case when it comes to vote, probably later tonight, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u84	Mr. President. I believe it is right and duty to leave my voice here at the 3rd. for bill to legalize accountants and reviews. That's because I've made some adjustments to 2. that, instead of the word "year-olds" and the datasets, we will see in Figure 4: accounts and other financial information. The reason for this is that the change as much as possible was suggested. The Economic and Business Committee proposed a bit too narrow when it came to definition the role of accountants, so I propose this adjustment form in consultation with the Ministry and, in fact, the Fed Act of legal accountants. In addition, technical variations are proposed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u85	Borist's letter has been sent by the acting head of Congress of the Mission to Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjinnsdótttir, 7th. Witchest. "I can't attend next week. So today, on Wednesday, June 19th, the General Assembly takes up residence as an assistant for her 2nd, on the Prosecution List of the District, Lilja Sigurgeirsdóttir Sigurgesdótttir, who has announced the premonition of the 1st. She has previously taken her place at the General Assembly, and she is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u86	President. I recommend a board of committees with an adjustment form from a greater part of the employment committee in the fish farm business. Almost all the changes there have been proclaimed and should not surprise anyone. It was reported at the beginning that changes in management and dispensing applications in areas that have already been evaluated for carrier tolerance were to be retracted immediately. As observed at 2nd. In the greater part, we withdrew some adjustments, and so did the minor ones. They were then united in this committee's view of change of motion. It has happened in the meantime that although more members of the council are on this level than the rest, as was the case with the opinion of the committee after 1. In other words, the weather soars into the air that the two of them burst. The members of the Central Party, who serve on a professional committee, were on the committee after 1st. does not share with this Committee's list. On the other hand, a what? paritaprevir Friðbjörg Peace of Elíasdóttir's daughter, who was prominent in the minority view, signed under the opinion of the committee, even though it does not meet the motion of changing that is proposed by a special document. I must say, Mr. President, I am sorry that we could not be united in the Committee on the changes proposed. They are all in the spirit they have been left behind by the committee, to strengthen the supply of fish farms, to take steps to ensure both the right of the public for information and, above all, the support of science and all of this research. I'm not going to read all the committee ideas, that's what senators can do for themselves. The most important change proposed to the Committee's Committee with a change in non-treatment proposal is that the Marine Institute determines the division of remote or marine areas in a firefield based on carrier tolerance and the best overall consumption of potential fuel areas. Prior to that, the Agency shall seek the guidance of the Agency, the EEA and, where appropriate, the Regional Council of the Member States for its proposal, as per the marine and coastal legislation. This is really the same thing that was making changes in the majority of things after 2 Peter 3: 1. Um.....by permission of the President: Since coastal zones have been established by marine and coastal legislation, No. 88/2018, the National Institute of Marine Research, should take into account the decision to switch to fire zones. In the absence of a coastal zone organization, the Agency should openly present the proposal of the Marine Research Agency on the Agency's website and provide three weeks of time to submit comments before giving the Agency a review to the Marine Research Agency. As a result of this change, the public has been able to make comments within three weeks in the spirit of the Frustration Convention and the public for information. The areas within marine and coastal planning have had to be advertised, as is customary in planning, and the pattern is applied by organizational legislation. This is advertised so that it is possible for the public to make comments. Then a single word is incorporated into the scientific committee of fish studies, founding genetics, and/or ecology to study the risk assessment methodology. It is repeatedly mentioned as three discriminating scientists. This is to further emphasize that we are talking about professional criticism and credibility of theology of the Institute of Marine Research. We believe that this will further increase credibility. Then there are smaller forms of change that I encourage senators to study. Under this reference work, the article "Aggressively. " Senators Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, head of the trade board, Elíasdóttir Flurburfjörður Frildursson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Njálíli Friðbertsson, and the one standing here. However, I am obliged to report that I sign this opinion in advance. The premonition is not about what I've gone over here. It's about how I've changed. 1920 which has been distributed and subject to the treatment and dispensing of already authorised applications. I'd like to suggest, Mr. President, and then explain my warning in very short terms. The suggestion for that document is about page 24. and it reads like this: ▪ About the management and dispensing of ACs for Marine Relations in Marine Areas, which have been evaluated for carrier tolerance and for which management of environmental impact assessments by the Treaty, No. 106/2000, has been completed prior to the implementation of this provision or the initial assessment report has been submitted for the implementation of this provision for the Agency under Article 9. a law on environmental impact assessments, depending on the previous legal requirements. Here's a multi-engineered motion that turns around that, as I have put it, closes the door after the old system so that applications go as much as possible into the new system after the new law has been accepted. A majority of the committee's will was made clear in the Committee's cover at 2nd. Since then, we have been working through the management system to find the best way to clear this point. I disagree with my partners in the majority of the time. Business committee. This is based on the fact that the primary assessment report has been submitted. I believe that it is both better and clearer to aim for a record report, more closely fulfilling the ideas that the greater part stated on the effect of the change. On the other hand, I view the matter we are working together that is huge and important and that these are the very good steps we are taking in this matter in order to achieve as far as possible a head of fish farming is concerned here. All of us know that there are enormous variations in fish farming; people have strong opinions about it. Therefore, I feel sorry that not all of us have been able to unite, wherever we stand, about the way we want to see it. If we cannot unite in the way we want to see these matters, can we not necessarily expect people outside of these walls to be united, or what? That is how I felt when I decided to support that suggestion, although I was in the foundation convinced that it was better to go somewhere else. But I know that, first of all, I'm not always right, second of all, I respect democratic will, and third, it's so important that this case will have to be legalized to change the viewpoints of a one-change proposal, by permission, by president, to dick shit in the big context. That's why I recommend this, and I also recommend an adjustment that I'm going to make in advance but lean on. I bear in mind that I would have wanted to go a different way, but I support this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u87	Mr. President. At this final talk on bill to correct the change in fish farming law, I'd like to introduce a few things, but first, I'd like to make a brief entry into a new form of change that we have. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson is written for and faces the change of B-jot 24 par. which is related to a discussion in this issue. It's not a long reading, by permission of the president: ▪ B team 24 pars. put it this way: For the management of ACs for marine farms in areas that have been evaluated for carrier tolerance, which were subject to the implementation of this directive, and for which legal management guidelines on environmental impact assessments, No. 106/2000, has been completed, the primary assessment report has been submitted to the Organizational Organization at Article 9. The laws of the law, or of the change or extensions, when given out a license, depend on the previous rules of the law in the handling and dispensing of applications. Where the proposal is added to Article 24. in which a change or addition is being made when publishing a license to be clearly identified and have examined this matter well that it cannot be the purpose of the legislation to carve employers together in the same area. It violates all aspects of the environment of these tracks, views on the protection of wild salmon and so on. I've thought it strange how slow some people are. Councilmen have been to show this view understanding, for the purpose of the law can only be that, in the case of enlargement in the case of a license, it is the same party. Why, then, should we make a decision to expand when there is a license to run into a new system? It won't keep any water. If we try to get it out of the way it works in the real world, we don't have enough reason to believe that there's so much work in it that we've already done with it the way it is. In my opinion, there is no argument about the fact that more than what has been provided. A professional health committee had planned to be assigned. It's only wise to approach this, that projects that are in preparation and have been in it for years, and to grow when there's a license to live. You do not calculate for two digits what is right or wrong when a complete legal review takes place. But this point must occur. Councilmen should think of being fair and normal and not mixing in with the objective of pooled distribution allowing and so forth. When a person who has been given all the leaves and has started working in the cooking area and wishes to expand his license and pass through all its processes, there is no discount with it, he must have all the valid and reasonable views of falling under the old system. I hope so. A body of Congress agrees with these views, for if you look at them from a distance, it should be clear to everyone that it is in the spirit of the goals that are being tried to achieve by the law to approach this point. There is something else important to mention in this context, that this will clearly support the aim of the law on environmental protection, the protection of the Icelandic wild salmon population and the rest of the streets, first of all because it makes sure that the same party is holding the expansion and the primary distribution in that particular area, and more importantly, we guarantee that, by my own independent goal, we are encouraged by the operators who are present to have certain size and resources to carry out the environmental measures, in order to take care that we are not taking the risk of the wild salmon, in order to fail to meet the demands here. It is not a last shot for anyone wanting a world of Congress, if necessary, to tighten the environmental scale, so to speak, harden the conditions set for this activity. Then these companies must have the authority to deal with such changes. There is no doubt that the whole matter is large, complex, and controversial. There is a situation that advocates of the largest stakeholders on both sides of the conflict, so to speak, would suggest that it would be wise for a body of Congress to take more time to win it. A hunting relationship is that way, and it encourages a world of Congress to make more time for it to work. SFS, the European Commission of Fisheries, proposes on behalf of the fire companies that the Council takes more time to look into it. I'm afraid this time, there's no evidence that often wishes to be when all the parties seem relatively disagree, that there was someone there on the right spot. I don't think that's the point. There are a number of factors to consider. As a matter of fairness, however, there have been refinements in the treatment of the committee. There has been an excellent work, but the matter is simply that it is not quite ready. The changes that have been presented between discussions and members of the committee as a subject. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé went over the past, fortunately most people are going in the right direction, but still they are missing a little bit. Hv. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé correctly introduced it in his talk earlier. The members of the Central Party, Ólafur Ísleifsson and Sigurður Páll Jónsson, had been on the committee, which came between 1 and 2. They're what they were. The members of Parliament took that opinion on a short notice, and the warning was just about eight o'clock. That's what the members of the Central Party were worried about, for this is not just a hunting court to worry about, a local hunter's rights and in the Huns' County, east and anywhere in the middle of the country, even in the Deep. It's not just the fish farms, it's also the rurals where this development takes place that makes decisions and has made decisions based on the way these issues are taking place. Then there are homes in these communities that have made decisions based on the prospects for future construction, legitimate expectations, as companies, rural areas, and homes, since the activities in this sector so far have not been in any legal vacuum. Surely we are working on an update of these laws because they can be improved. The situation is, however, that companies have been working under the rules of the sector. The communities and homes in these areas have all come close to things and have the expectations of building and building on legitimate grounds and in good faith. Fortunately, the environmental part of these matters is used to protect the extraordinary, unique, wild salmon we have, and it seems that I've done better than in the matter of having a permit. And just so that there is no misunderstanding on the issue of 8. ..... how to conduct the leaves and rights, which permit applications live and which licences die, to go beyond the fact that more applications are alive than is suggested in the opinion of the Committee, I want to, in all fairness, thanks to the fact that, on the basis of the primary assessment report, there is a greater part of the Commission. The statistics would have made me feel terrible, so I try to put it gently. Draging the line that nears the surface means that more levels allow to live but less supports the naturalist and the protection of the Icelandic salmon population, not vice versa. This is because it ensures that the companies on this market have the strength to respond to the demands. Men have seen it abroad, I gave a speech yesterday or the day before an example of Chile. There the situation was greatly improved when a person had the wisdom to change the rule in a way that reduced the number of cooking companies, larger and more powerful instead of being weak and small in the early stages. At the end of my talk again, I want to encourage the body of Congress to support the adjustment proposal that those members who have already issued a license and ask for an enlargement on that particular license will remain under the old system, but those applications will not fall down and they won't have to start over again. This would be so far from the purpose of the laws of those mentioned here to be considered if they were to find themselves in that position that a third party would be assigned to the expansion rights being given. Then, at last, this would be bad, for it cannot be the goal. It isn't, and this adjustment proposal is in harmony with the purpose of the law, and I encourage the whole state of Congress to accept it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u88	President. I have to say, I'm a little surprised to see what I saw. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason's proposal to change this matter. My memory is dim, but I don't remember it. A senator has many problems. Business committee on the case. That might explain what I think is a misunderstanding about a lot of things, so I'll talk pent, some things I don't think are entirely part of the real world. Hv. The members of the Central Party have spoken a lot about future warnings. about the third pack of energy telling a lot of jokes about the search for warnings. This is where we spoke. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason said that the rest of his two colleagues in the Middle Ages had signed the committee's opinion in advance. I'd like to ask you what. A senator where they are warned, since they are not included in the committee's opinion. And it may be strangeness of course. A senator with the case, which also confuses members of the council who sign the committee's opinion. It was a w-w-w-w. The members of Ólafur Ísleifsson and Þorvaldsson Thorddsson, who signed it under no warning. Laying out on an alleged notice is simply a false report or a talk of strangers. When it comes to familiarity or familiarity, I am very familiar with the text set out in a new format. Senator. It's quite like a text that the manager of a single fish farm sent to the committees why. The pro committee this morning. Is that text the source of this adjustment proposed?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u89	A respectable president. First, it is to say that I have criticized it very in the presence of the committee, and there has been no secret to it, that although members of the committees have put much emphasis on approaching this case so that it would be to them, whether it was on purpose or not, they are unclear how the line submitted in the majority opinion would affect each area. The answer to that criticism was calling for a summary of the Agency's permission requests, and on either side they died on different grounds. There they divided up in the East and in the West. I haven't claimed that this seemed like a completely different approach to the committees. I've compared it to what I've done. The committees wanted to approach the situation, so some official agency could later be blamed for the loss of permit applications on the opposite side. I wanted members of the council to make this decision with their eyes open, to know the impact this would have on each area, to realize that it was clear to everyone, and to make decisions about it. The fact is that the line that is now drawn, in view of the findings of the Committee, is particularly bad in one designated area, south of the West. This information was not revealed through the committee. [[The president calls.]] The limited data submitted were needed to be addressed. I think it's only possible that everyone is aware of which area the most impact will be in relation to this cut.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u90	President. Hv. A senator managed to speak for two minutes and even speak up for a short time because he had to talk so much past my two direct questions that he did not turn aside. That's why I'm gonna use this minute to repeat the questions. I hope so. A senator would have enough time to answer them this time. Where are the warnings at the moment? A senator long ago explained what had been meant? Actually, they were not attributed to the right reason. People in the Central Party, but let's not do that. Had a dog. A senator wrong there? Shouldn't he correct it here, that there are no warnings? The text that is behind the adjustment suggests quite a bit of a computer letter. I've got members of the pro board this morning from the executives of a fish farm. Is there a source of change?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u91	Mr. President. I apologize for forgetting to answer the committee's opinion. I thought that later I had the answer. It's true that the people we're talking about here have a misapprehension, of course. Prosecutor Jón Þór Þorvaldsson, who was in custody for Sigurður Jónsson, when the committee was referred to as a treatment between the 1st and the 2nd. was submitted. I did not look it up before my talk, but I remembered that they had made a warning of their signing. If it isn't, I'll pull it back. I'll take this misappreciating if it was such a thing, but it doesn't matter that the 8th articles have been severely criticized by members of the Central Party for the whole time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u92	But the origin of the new proposal?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u93	The Origin of the Change? Well, these are the views I'm speaking for here, to the opening -- [[The president calls.]] I don't know if there are more companies that fall under this, but I know that there's a business in an area that has been particularly delicate for decades, and I don't think that divorce by Generalis with this case would be in the way that the area that has been ill for a long time will be the worst part of the operating point. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u94	The President reminds me of why. A senator on the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u95	It's kind of been asked what I was going to ask, but I want to do the same. It is noted in the committee that Jón Þór Þorvaldsson and Ísleifsson Isleusususfsson do not make a warning. I heard it after the case had been resolved in 2nd. They would have backed out of it and would have been on notice, paying special attention to it. I wanted to keep track of where men were located. Rather than taking the matter into account, they agreed with it as it was settled from the committee. I was surprised when they began to talk about it afterward, examined it, and saw that there was no priors. There's no one before. I remember this very well and I take very good notes in committees, let's get it straight. Then you look at the situation and try to read it out. There's Ólafur Ísleifsson. He is in the Republic of Reykjavík, perhaps not necessarily thinking of the speciality of the Northwestern District, and now the senator Bergþór Ólason has mentioned it here, which is in the wake. 4th, including Witchest. , and is fighting for the special interest of those already in fish farms that he wants to suggest a change in their expansion, that it's inside that they don't have to go back in order, that they can be in the old system if they want to. e.g. You're getting bigger. All right, well, it's understandable that people are fighting for special interests, but then it's good to know exactly what the situation is. The situation is that the members of the Central Party were not on notice. People make mistakes, and they can come to themselves, at least Ólafur Ísleifsson, and explain how it is. I'll take the question from what? paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér's story about how this is going to happen. Then come home and then to council, Sigurður Páll Jónsson of the Northwestern district, chief of the Council, and then Bergþór Ólason, a top member of the northwestern district, both leaping into the committee and having opposition to what the members of the Central Party had agreed on. I think it's a bit of a situation and there's something special about it. The Senator can fix me if he doesn't.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u96	Mr. President. I would first like to express my great pleasure with a good glow. paritaprevir Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson. Especially interesting is the fact that I was with him at the job committee meetings.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u97	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u98	That's how I understood it. I'm not on that committee. The movers of this process are members of the Norwegian-West District, one of the two districts of the country, which is the main source of the fish supply today, so there is nothing hard to believe. It is only honest to say that it has been more than small to draw out information about the impact of any point mentioned in the case would have on each area. For example, in the west there is a difference between permission of the south side of the West and the Ísafjörður deep, where it is still closed. These things matter, and the committee was reluctant, so I said pent, to divide them. I've said this in a talk before that I wanted members of the committee to approach the matter with open eyes to how this affected each area. What does that indicate? It's called transparency the day out and the day in, and I know what it is. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson, Senator of Pirata, is an amateur for transparency. I did not think that there was much transparency in the direct violation of the impact of each cuttle. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u99	President. It would have been really good to do that, because I'm not in favor of this case. I can't vote with it, and I've declared it. I'm not on the committee, and I'm not. We vote with the points in change proposals and articles that set a better setting for the protection of nature in this bill, which is also done, but at the same time we are expanding and expanding what can be done with a lot of fish farming in the country and set a price for what should be taken, far below what is to be used in the seas. Our proposal is to do so. With regard to the environmental issues as of any given moment. A senator has talked a lot about how to set up his defenses, so if fertile fish escape, they will not surface the river and spawn. This is not up yet. Would it not be nice to wait on that matter until these counter measures are actually up? Does not the senator feel that all external costs should be used, that all external costs resulting from some kind of environmental damage should all be placed on fish farms themselves? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u100	Mr. President. I think the principle is that the cost of the environment, the possible damage to business, should be paid by the way it works. I don't trust myself to answer that question more clearly than that. I hope I'm answering the question that was supposed to come through here. With regard to the counter-improvement measures. A senator came in, there are many things. We'll see, for example. that in Langadas is about to finish -- I can't remember the term that is used for this but actually a fish trap or filter that takes pictures of every fish that goes up into the river. You use light controls, grid size, and so forth, all of these are things that can be decided on with very short notice for fire companies and so on in the streets. I think preparation and leading counter measures are in themselves at a good place. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u101	Mr. President. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. A senator comes into this discussion like the demon of sheep, into the fine work that has been on a business committee for a very long time in this big and big interest, building fish for the future with new legislation and looking to environmental guidelines as well as to protect the wild salmon populations of the country. I think it's a bad word. A senator shows that he is not involved in these matters. We're building a general law law, not a law code for individual companies. I hope so. A senator agrees with me that legislation should generally be directed toward the legal environment of those to whom it is supposed to be involved, not with some cannoli to meet individual companies that are held at the General Assembly. We've worked very hard together to determine which way to go to meet a clear set of laws between the old laws and the new ones we're putting here. I guess it's what we're looking for. A senator is expected to work for the new law that we have been working for so long on. It's not some last stop if you can't get in with applications based on the old law. There's a future after that for all fish farms. What does it look like? A senator that has started a report, since men have almost reached an endpoint in an application procedure? We did so rather than take the road of the assessment that is even narrower. We took this up, and we received information from the Organization that it would be a very clear law to determine the reception of the primary assessment report. [[The president calls.]] It's like a suggestion of what? The senator looks forward to a starting point for an assessment plan to please certain companies, and we have never seen which companies are underneath, their social security, or national parts.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u102	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir for the counter-sponsored. I specifically stated that I did not know how many people were killed. My point is that a permit application where there is a request for an enlargement is being made when the license of an issue falls under the old system. That's exactly what I said.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u103	You mean about...?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u104	I'm sorry? That's what I'm saying right here and out there, my motion is changing. It can't be the aim of these new legislation to expand when the available license goes to an auction market and can land with anyone, can it? Is it the goal of this law to establish a situation where the operators will be grafted together in a limited area? I don't think that's the goal. I'm pretty sure that's not my goal. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, chairman of the professional committee, misunderstood something for me. What I'm talking about is a process that's going on and can have lasted for years, anywhere in the country it might be. An outstanding writer of the case gave an example in the past. I know one thing, but it may well be that there are more people, but it can't be the goal of expanding when there's a license to go to someone else but it's today. It can't be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u105	Mr. President. Collaborators do not arrest companies into areas that are weight-divided. That's for damn sure. There are more than one party who apply in each boat that is the weight - bearing record. Some have already reported their primary assessment reports and have reached their final station, others not. That is clearly stated by the Organizational Institute of Organization, in the opinion of which I believe. A senator should have already learned that if there is an expansion, it will depend on the environmental assessment law in the same way as on a new plan. That's what I would have thought. A senator made an effort to study before moving a change of motion, which is completely absurd. The adjustment would include all those in the future who are growing toward them, that they follow the old laws. What kind of mud would we be going to then? We are here making public laws, not specific laws, to pursue some popularity in their own district. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u106	Mr. President. I don't think there was any question about it at any point. Magnúsdóttir But I just want to reiterate what I said before, it can't be the goal of these songs to a person who's applying for an enlargement when - Yes, yes, I heard it. [[That's not what I said.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u107	That's not true.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u108	- The license to run into a limbo with that to third party within the area. It doesn't change my attitude to the point. A senator shook his head. There is nothing to be asked for persons who keep allowing them active on the basis of the old rulework being released from the regular work to be done with the enlargement, anyway. I wouldn't think of that. [[The president calls.]] It's just that you don't have to go back to zero.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u109	No one has to do that. ...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u110	Mr. President. I believe by these changes in fish farming laws we are creating a clearer background on fish farming in Iceland for the future. As we have seen, perhaps unduly often in this talk, cooperation on the committee and the work on the case in it has been exemplary, even though we have not finally met on all the points of the matter. The Commission suggests a number of adjustments at the 3rd district. taking into account some aspects of the memory of the part. In particular, I feel that there is a particular need for a presentation of the exchange of landlands in areas where coastal planning is not in place. It will also be clearly stated that the committee of scientists who are to discuss the risk assessment of genetic mixtures is organized into nonviolence. Finally, the Committee agrees on the importance of a vision for fish farming to ensure that in the United States fish farms will be in the highest order for production, environmental factors and sustainableity. All of these are the points that we believe to be of great strength and that the agreement has been made between the memory and the majority of the committees on these issues. Of course, there are aspects of the legislation that I believe could have been different, but this is the conclusion, and I believe it is improving. However, the way that the majority have chosen to handle the proposal of licenses in longevity areas is disappointing, being the case's own prominent authority on the proposal in advance. The preferred route means that small amounts, if any, remain on the weight-sustained areas for distribution under the new law. I think it is a particularly bad ending I have, as I have said before, the belief that with the new legislation there is an important point to the assessment of applications, such as The amount of oer, experience in fish farming, financial strength and standards that measure how an oer has practiced its business and information about how a donor intends to practice the business. All of these are the things I think it's important to be looked up for applications, so if I had wanted to see a larger portion of fish breeders follow the new legislation instead of simply coming first, first the first one as in the old.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u111	A respectable president. It's so fun to be in the gym with you, as often as we're here in the audience. I can see why. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson has arrived. He might take my seat next time. It is true that, a respected president, a position on the committee has been very good in this case. We have been working for months on the subject under discussion, and I have to say for the moment, as different as all of us are, and with conflicting views, that it has been a success to handle this issue under reliable leadership. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttar's son Proppér, who is chairman of this case and chairman of the Committee, Lilja the Rafney Islands Magnúsdóttir. We've met a lot of people and we've had meetings with people abroad, in Norway, as we've seen, to put us in the best of our time. What I find most enjoyable at the end of all this work is that all this time we've been like an empty sheet in front of us without knowing which company we'd be thinking of and working for, which area it was. Now at the end of the time when the phone rings a great deal, we can honestly say that I think of all the committees, that we have worked wholeheartedly on this matter, and that we have tried to cross the country all over, without thinking of any personal interest. It's been totally like that. Of course, when we had to find the cut where the law was to take effect, we were most sensitive and sensitive. The cutoff point will be based on the primary assessment reports, where companies have spent most of the time and money in preparing the permission they seek. It has also been informed on the committee, and we told that all the work and all the money that companies who have not reached the goal of reporting the primary assessment report will be used for continued work. It's really important, and I have to say just as it is that for me, it was a great relief to know when we had to cut the matter off that the great money of the companies that did not get in and those expensive jobs would continue. It's a comfort to be comforted by it. We must also realize that we are talking about the high priced fish supply in Iceland. A total of 144,000 tons, and as shown in the case of a layman, the meaning was that much of that amount would be distributed according to a new law. It was launched. This is one of our initial assignments. As time has passed and the situation has become clearer, it will likely be that after we have accepted these laws, we will survive with 122,000 tons of the 144,000 being more and less already assigned or distributed. Already, 50,000 tons have already been distributed. 15,000 tons are on temporary laws that we set in the fall, and another 15,000 tons are in the final meters. Then there's 17,000 tons based on a record record record. Taking the cutoff of the primary assessment report, we are talking about 20,000,25,000 tons, making it possible for us to be in the country by almost weight - resistant. That leaves $24,000,25,000 tons left. That is far beyond what we originally intended, and it cannot be said that by this weight - bearing Council of these companies or by preventing them from growing and prospering. If I remember correctly, they produced about 11,000 tons last year. But we look forward to seeing it grow and flourish, and it does not help the society that needs a billion dollars in new income for every week for the next 20 years if we are to maintain 3% interest in this country. That's extremely important. The press is in the salmon fire. There are huge parishes. We trust these companies to carry us into the future on these wings and to increase their income and really be the article that may be the most recent on growth in this country. I just want it to come up here that we think we've gone as far as possible. In the final years, how important it is that we try to keep on speaking in one voice to end this matter in harmony and harmony, as we have seen here! It's never been our idea to carve companies together in the foam. That's not good at all, and one of the first things they told us was that more than one company should be prevented. When we came to this matter, however, we could not, for the fact that more than one company was in some places. In addition, the birds are very large, and if the risk assessment will allow for future salmon farms in Isafjörður, it can hardly be expected that one company will be there with 30,000 tons of fire. There are also tremendous opportunities. We have discussed the risk assessment before, there is also a tool that is on a global scale, so that a professional committee can walk away when we finish this matter, confident that we are setting good laws with a good conscience.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u112	President. I'd like to start by saying that Piras can't accept this fish breeding bill because it's quite clear that the precautions and costs of environmental protection are not fully followed. The rule of caution is that anything is done technically. It is said a lot about the best technology, but when the bill comes into force, it will not be guaranteed by available technology that environmental damages caused by fish farming will not be prevented when the best possible counterweight measures are used. One thing about the cost rule is that in this bill it also does not guarantee that the fish farmers who are involved in this business will suffer from environmental damage. This bill doesn't guarantee it, and that's why Piratars can't accept it. At the same time, last night Friðbjörg and I were ordered by the Elíasdóttir of Elijah to observe the same rule as when it comes to taking charge of the country's common resource in using the resources of the resource. It's not done either. It was refused here yesterday. So giving all these reasons, according to Pirata's approved policy, Pirates cannot support this matter. I'd like to go into prophecies about what will happen after this bill, especially after a meeting on a professional committee yesterday when the European Commission of the Sea Road came before the Committee and the Ministry. Then a certain picture began to be drawn up. There is much dissatisfaction with these special interest providers that the incision point, the point chosen for the application procedure, would be at the point where not everything should be entered into the old system far beyond the risk assessment. What's done in this bill is that almost everything is in the old system, not in the law as we're accepting it now. That's where almost everything gets into the old system the way the law is before we accept it. There's a lot of good stuff in this good bill, and we agreed to the Pirantars that came from here yesterday, but we agreed to vote against what we don't agree with. That's how we do business, but, of course, we can't accept the whole case, as I say, because of the nomads I talked about. It's almost everything, beyond what's happening today in fish farms, should land within the old law. Yet, for these fish farms there was a special interest guard with the bill and caused the whole committee to be heard incongruous. There was not much reconciliation and a willingness to listen to the presentation in the final meters. I understand and respect how the committee has worked this case to a large extent. Although I disagree with this matter, I say that it was an unusually extensive consultation, an unusually long process to try to reconcile these views. The day before we agreed to this, the special care providers entered the committee's dissatisfaction that they were allowed to enter the old system, not the new law, where they have all the applications, over the environmental risk assessment. In fact, they thought that the matter would be accepted later that evening. They want to cross it and still feel bad that it all fits into the old system. What freckles! Some of them what? Senators want to make some adjustments in their proposal to make it even further. Then it goes beyond the carrier assessment as well. [[Foreground on: No.]] What freckles! [[The point is, it's not true.]] Senators can explain in their minds what is not right. This goes beyond the risk assessment and even what you're talking about here is beyond the carrier assessment, and if the members of the Central Party, which I ask to respond and to correct if I'm wrong, they want to do it even further in both cases beyond the risk assessment and the carrier assessment. The Committee discussed whether a person really wanted a risk assessment. The risk assessment is now just a living document, was said, and there are no proper business conditions, the companies have to be much bigger, and there has to be a lot more fish for the fish farms to be profitable. This may be true, but the people are not being informed before this is agreed that in order for these companies to be profitable, they need to go beyond the risk assessment or to reduce the cost of companies. The story is not being told to the people when this bill is being submitted and the viewpoints that are fundamentally accepted by this bill. My prophecy, however, saw that after a year and a half of reevaluation of this fee, weeping shoes will be exalted that the fish fire is not sustainable unless the price is dropped or expanded much more. That's my prophecy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u113	Mr. President. I'm going to start by making a president happy by saying stories, all to the point that Congress can continue at the right speed. I've come here to recommend a proposal for action on the definition of resources from the Environmental and Transport Committee. Under it all the committees immediately write, and I would like to express their joy. It's a matter of course. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson moved earlier to the council, and now he comes for release. I'm not going to read up a guest and a client, but, with the permission of a president, I'm going to read it out: In accordance with the proposal, the General Assembly shall assign the Environment and Resource Minister to provide a legislation at the next legislation meeting which will define what is to become of the resources of this country and what Iceland's resources are. Resource rights experts, environmental control, and environmental rights work on the bill. In this case, efforts are being made to meet at one place the key views of Iceland's resources, whatever they are. The fact is, we are often in a very limited area of the resource debate, most of course in connection with the fishing law. Today we have been discussing fish farming. There is a resource, the space suitable for such activities, e.g. ... andheat. The list is a long one that can fall under it, but this is the goal, as I say, to cover this so that a body of Congress will be more comfortable discussing resources with a permanent land beneath its feet. A similar council proposal has been made before the council, but now it is our hope that we will be involved in the case and write under the committee's opinion that the matter will finally be carried out. Is it my suggestion that the case should be referred to the government for further processing and payment? It should be noted that Vilhjálmur Árnason was absent from the case, but he signed this opinion according to Article 4. 18th par. Standards for regular committees. Other than that, all members of the committee, Jón Gunnarsson, Bergþór Ólason, Trausti Trali Guðmundsson, Hanna Friðriksson Fridurksson, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Karl Gauti Einar Hjaltason, Linella Sævarsdóttir Savardótir, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjoffótsdótir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason. I'm not going to do this any further, but I hope that the case is going to get going and we're all going to benefit in the next few hours after this work has taken place.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u114	V.E.G. President. I'm just going to come up here and thank you for the fact that this matter of resource definition has come through an environmental and transport committee. As noted by a historian of the Committee, why. paritaprevir Ólason, Bergþór, is the one who stands here for the case spoken in the fall. The case has been delivered five times before, I think, or during recent sessions of former years. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir. The case is done extensively, and when I prepared for the transfer of the case, I went through talks, reviews, and so on. The proposal was very well discussed, and so did the committee of this year. In fact, I'm surprised that she's never made it because it's somewhat parapolitic. It is also evident by the signing of the committee's opinion that there is a great deal of agreement on the progress of the case. That is why I hope and am quite optimistic about having such a career this time. As noted frequently earlier, the most important means of resource expenditure has been the seabed. The marine road is the only resource that pays for resource use and has many found it relatively isolated and has not been considered better for other resources approved for human resources. Today, we rightly agreed on a price of fish farming, although it is carefully stepped down to the ground, and although it will be revised in a year and a half, it is a step in the right direction and we accept it almost all in the councilroom. This must naturally be the kind of thing when we talk about the bodies that use the resource that they can truly pay the resource money. This needs work to be done so as to be reasonable in the way a company can carry the legal fee. Therefore, it is urgent that this matter receive good treatment and payment. As I said, I build high hopes that it will be that it will be as professional as possible and at peace with as many people. That's the way it has to be. No one has spoken against paying the resource fees, but it has been more strongly objected to how it works when calculated. Looks like who in it. It has often been mentioned that the eating system is grassy, but it is, in my opinion, that it might say something about the eating system that it's the point of paying the resources. Well, then it must be a really good system. In this regard, I just want to say again that I am optimistic about how the matter will be well paid and I hope that a body of Congress would agree with me in that. I'm not gonna keep this any further, and I'm gonna be happy to leave the pont this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u115	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a greater part of the General and Education Committee on the bill for Education, Education, Education, and Education and School Boarding at L.A., elementary school, and high school. The bill suggests that there will be one permission letter issued for teaching which includes confirmation of the ability to have the acting, elementary and high school teachers. The bill is based on the description of the teacher's qualifications in a so - called skill frame and the setting up of a teacher's Council on the development of the test box. It is expected that the publication of teacher's permission letters and the grant of the releases due to the recruitment of instructors is being transferred to the Institute of Education. It is suggested that the school directors increase responsibility in evaluating candidates' ability to teach. The changes are designed to cover the wide variety of academic development, the flow of teachers, and the increased security of teachers. At meetings the Committee discussed the lack of teachers and innovation in the teachers'class and how the problem might be handled. The majority stress that the changes proposed by the bill alone do not solve the problem, but the bill is one factor in a number of actions, which include: is intended to make the teaching work more desirable and to lead to increased growth in the teachers'class with increased educational abilities. In the management of the case, the Commission discussed the central change that the bill implies that a certificate of permission based on the general and specialized skills of teachers and that legal legislation will become a skill for the education of teachers and school directors. The goal of the bill was considered, i.e. to enhance flexibility and promote increased flow of teachers from school ladders, which have seemed to be lacking in current legal conditions. In this regard, there was a difference between the two groups. It is noted that the teacher's authority to teach from adjacent school schools has not been recognized, so teachers have been hired to teach as instructors and to live with impaired security. It has been claimed that the current legislation regarding a permission letter is holding back the teacher's job development. The committee presented differences of views as to whether the current law of the home of teachers should work at an adjacent school level. The majority point out that the bill aims to set more precise rules about the flow of teachers from school to school. It is thus intended to resolve one permission letter with certain uncertainty in the current legal environment so that any post of a teacher who has received a permission letter for teaching at a particular school will be employed in teaching work. The committee held the view that changes in the bill include reducing the demands for a teacher's specialization. This made it clear that it is not desirable to legalize the teacher's qualifications and views on how to evaluate skills according to the criteria of the bill. The majority stress that using the bill, it is not aimed at reducing the requirements for a teacher's specialized education. According to the bill, changing requirements for the teacher's expertise at so-called stage 1, which teaches introductions and review classes that are common in basic and after-school schools. On the other hand, in a job advertisement, a schoolmaster who wishes to demand additional specialations may recommend this. This will highlight the importance of the ability to guide the education of teachers, career development and the conditions for a permission letter. At the same time, he will be used as an assessment of the quality of school work. Legalization is in line with international development, but in most European countries, educational skills frames are expressed by the authorities. This will show the greater part that according to the bill it is assumed that the Regulation will be published with a more detailed description of general and specific ability being given. The meeting of the committee discussed the role and teaching Council. There was a view that the Council's work and authority were unclear. The majority stress that a teacher's Council is intended to be a cooperative guide on the development of a teaching and school director's abilities and is primarily for the purpose of a recruitment role to a minister in these matters. In the management of the case, there was also a discussion of the changes in the administration of teacher's permission papers and the granting of the recruitment of instructors, suggested that this project be transferred from the minister of education and culture to the National Institute of Education. The CDC will be submitted and the nominees for elementary school and high school will be combined into one of the teacher's parole committees. The majority of the reports show that the terms of the bill are intended to result in greater efficiency in the administration of licences and to promote increased security where the disclosure of the National Relations Act can be reported to the Education and Culture Ministers. The majority stress that changes in administrative matters will become professional and that the Institute of Education will be given the necessary financial resources to work on their induction. The greater part suggests that the bill will be approved by the changes included in a link to making changes, and I'll ask the members of the Parliament to study them. Guðmundur Andri Thorsson and Jón Steindór Valdimarsson sign in advance. They believe that in view of the dramatic change in the bill involving the entire class of teachers, the situation needs more preparation so that a greater solidarity could be achieved among the class. Nevertheless, they feel that the matter is progressive and supportive, confident that it will continue to be settled, and the result will be better and more flexible school systems for the benefit of students and teachers. Under the heading, Páll wrote to Chairman Magnússon of Steinunn Þóra, Árnadóttir of the Year, Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, in advance, Anna Kolbrún, the Árnadóttir of the Year, and Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, in advance. Birgir of the Ármannsson signed by Article 4. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. A respectable president. An executive would also like to propose a modification proposal to the bill in his own name, which reads: 1st 1.mg. Twenty-niner. put it this way: This law goes into effect on January 1, 2020, except temporary requirements that already come into effect. As a result of the implementation of these laws, the school and education laws fall out of place for teachers and school directors at high school, elementary school, and high school, No. 87/2008. 2. There are provisional additions, as follows: The minister appoints a group of consultations to discuss the implementation and induction of the law. The group shall represent preschool, elementary school and high school, Iceland's Teacher Union, school directors, the University of Colleges of Iceland and the University of Education in Akureyri. The group will return their results to Ministers by December 1, 2018, and will explain the progress of their work by October 15, 2019. In view of the fact that, a more dignified president, it is clear to everyone who has observed the case that there has been considerable turmoil around it, an executive proposes this proposal to try to approach the viewpoints of the world, hoping that by allowing us to give ourselves longer time, i.e. On the basis of the current bill, the value element on July 1, 2018, is that we take time to 2020, and we try to work together with teachers, I believe that we will reach the successful conclusion of our school system and those with a successful education.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u116	Mr. President. I've been very close to winning this case and I've been tracking it. In many ways, that has been a very interesting and satisfying experience, but it has also been a bit of a difficult experience. My experience with the school system is that only if you're a student and actually a parent, but my personal experience is that you've been a student, and when you're a student, the teacher is always right. You're right about what your teacher says, and when you sit as a member of the committee and there's a stream for teachers who are more eloquent and more convincing, you're not going to be a little confused when these teachers hold very different things forward and are almost in hair together. You don't really know what you're doing. It's hard to resolve between these views, and I think it's very important to work hard to accept the different views that are on the school system and the young people in the country for good. I think a teacher needs a variety of amazing qualities, but a teacher has mainly to teach. I think it's number one, and that's why I think it's a good thing, as planned, that the foundation of teaching is being strengthened. I think a teacher needs to know his subject. I think teaching is a special and highly specialized subject, and I was very careful about getting control of it for the teacher. Of course, the teacher must have deep empathy, and he must have great love and tolerance, and he must also have a deep and good knowledge of what he is teaching, but he must be able to teach first and foremost. I have nothing to say about improving the role of teaching in this subject, even though it may seem at the expense of so-called professional knowledge, i.e. Knowledge of each textbook, which the teacher certainly needs to be a good teacher, may not have to be a apostol. The objective of this bill seems to me to be a positive and good thing to pay for the diversity and diversity of the teacher's work development and to pay for it to take place at a high, strong, and good flow between degrees, and there will be a greater safety of teachers, i.e. When they lose their jobs at one school level, they have a way of going to another school level without having to put themselves there as instructors and live in security. This has been a problem and has been lacking in the current legal environment, that this flow is normal and natural, and despite attempts to solve it, they simply have failed to succeed. There's obviously some uncertainty over where this bill will make things better. There have been concerns, mostly on the part of high school teachers, that are being reduced by the demands for a teacher to be specialized. They fear, which is not being taken sufficiently into account the special and special work of teaching at any school, and they naturally focus on their high school level with which they have knowledge, which is the high school. On the contrary, it has been suggested that the principals in the job advertisements may require special, more specialized attention, and school directors can choose teachers as best they can. This needs to be evident in the natural experience and in the opinion of the teacher's Council, which is intended to become a kind of collaborative guide on the development of this skilled frame and should have a fulfilling role for the minister. Experience just needs to show how it can be found. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson wrote under the heading I'm about to read here by the president: ▪ The Guðmundur Andri Thorsson and Jón Steindór Valdimarsson sign in advance. They believe that in view of the dramatic change in the bill involving the entire class of teachers, it would have required better preparation so that a greater solidarity could be achieved among the class. Nevertheless, they feel that the matter is looking for progress and support, confident that it will continue to be settled, and the result will be better and more flexible school systems, students, and teachers to benefit. When we what? A senator made this advance on the bill did not suggest an adjustment to postpone the execution of this case and appoint a group of workers appointed to representatives of different and various schools. When this adjustment is made, the question arises: Well, why not simply postpone the case itself at the time that is to take place in order to improve the situation and make better peace? That question is open, and I haven't had an answer to what I can understand. Finally, I want to reiterate that it is difficult for me to go against the will of such a class of high school teachers who have so strongly expressed their will in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u117	A respectable president. I'm very kind and obliged to come up here and answer a question. paritaprevir The Lords of Thorsson Thorson regarding the adjustment of the proposal, whether it would have been better to delay the entire taking. That's because I'm sorry. A senator, along with other blows. The members of the General and Education Committee have discussed this considerably between us. After the matter was taken out of the committee, we have taken an extra meeting. I consulted with them as much as possible here at the council, how to get things settled, and this is the way most considered best, that I would be the one to make this change. Instead of taking the matter back into a committee and starting to grapple with it, this is the route that had gone. I hope this answers a question. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u118	Mr. President. I hope the President doesn't mean anything to me that I'm here asking the questions and why. Senator responds. It's probably supposed to be the other way around. But let's not worry about it. I do not comment on this trial, not at all, but the question remains whether it would have been rather lost to contribute to the class of teachers who have generally opposed this case, a high school teacher, to postpone the case completely, to postpone this bill and to continue working on the subject in the summer in agreement with the U.S. Senate and then to put it again at the next assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u119	A respectable president. I think either way is good, i.e. that if my proposed proposal was to be accepted, then the next summer, the fall, would be a new one, in order to try to accept the views that we are facing. The members of the General and Education Committee have become very familiar. I think the timing's all right. It is very good for the bill to become a law, and for the subsequent use of time, to be completed on December 1, 2019, to achieve and work on the case and to make peace. I don't believe anyone entrusted with raising Iceland's youth would survive to meet for a successful outcome.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u120	Mr. President. The subject we discuss is quite extensive, and it involves significant changes. I think the bill is first put forth with good intentions, but as noted, I sign it on notice. In the foundation, I believe that the matter is good and the goals are good, i.e. to view school more fully as educational and academic duties, i.e. Our school responsibilities up to 16 years of age and then on to 18 years of age are very important that we consider this to be one body. Even though it is a unit, however, the nature of the matter differs from that of teaching, teaching, teaching, and learning. Of course, this will lead us by itself, but we need to view all of it somehow as a unit. And while it's not the subject of this bill, I think it would be most desirable to make the changes in school that are related to education, i.e. Children up to 18 years of age have been taught that this is one school and that they see it this way. I think that in itself the bill can be a good part of the thought that I think we have to develop and that, most important, end up with the students for the best and is meant to ensure the best education. The important thing is that those at school receive the best education and teaching that is possible. It could be said, and missed the speaker of the case, and why. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, who has also spoken, that it is very unfortunate that he has failed - and probably there are several reasons why both of them can be billed into the pulpation of the teachers'class, i.e. Teachers' businessmates, and probably some of those who have been working on this case, preparing, introducing - to agree that it's all for improvement. For example, there is no need to speak up about the fact that differences are primarily on the part of high school teachers that the matter is good, they feel weighed down by their uniqueness and role in this system. Actually, I am not entirely convinced that it is the right thing to eat, but it really doesn't matter what I eat if it's the food I eat from the teachers who are involved. Sadly, the source of the bad news lies. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson made and has been very aware of this. After the bill appeared and is introduced to the council, efforts have been made to establish some form of better understanding of the whole matter. It hasn't quite worked out, and of course it's very sad. I think, however, and although I speak a lot about the importance of being reached, that once you've finished -- I'm not saying that it's over now - trying hard to reach an agreement on how the General Assembly and the Education have thought it will eventually be decided to cut the knot. Of course, if possible, it is best to resolve the knot, and that's what we need to work to do and that's what this notices. Whether it is wise to postpone the whole case or to agree with any adjustments. An authority has submitted in his own name, i.e. I don't really know what's best about this. I'd like to say, though, that, in the end, it might not be completely divided which way is actually gone. It's about trying to reach an agreement that I think is extremely important, and for my stocks, I can agree in my own way that the changes in the proposals that have been proposed to this continuation of the execution and efforts to make peace, and I think that I must state that I am right behind all these peace efforts. I think they'll probably have to make changes in the laws they're going to have to make. I think it's important to make that statement for the highest level. A minister of education to keep an eye on whether and what can be done only to deal with the isolated problem, because the matter is far more than just the permission letter and this issue, or a different viewpoint, between the teachers'unions on the role of training and teaching, and the expertise. It's very important to look at the whole thing and to know if it can be tailored that way - I don't have any suggestions in that context - that you have a very open mind when you come up with it to try to renew it in some way. Or if that is what it takes, be prepared to offer suggestions and bills in those topics. I know that's not going to happen. A top-of-the-art Board of Education to deal with that project if it comes to her level. I think it's really important. Although I spoke of the need to cut knots in the end, it is of utmost importance that we try everything we can to resolve this matter successfully. I'm going to finish my case on this, that it's kind of a big responsibility to be the highest. A minister of education is given into his arms, with very little will, to try to put this into place so that a greater agreement could be made. I want it to come out of this platform that it is also a big responsibility for the shoulders of the teachers and the teachers of all to work with an open mind to know if there are ways to resolve this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u121	Mr. President. We here discuss the bill on education, ability, and advice of teachers and school directors at school, elementary school and high school, which are daily spoken at the Assembly Hall, at least, have been called the permission letter. I declared 1st. Certain doubts about this matter, whether it was really finished or not, whether it was likely to reach the goals that might include. will be presented in the report to form as a result of an increasing attendance at teachers'studies. I also described my concern because I have a particular risk of growing abroad, areas that have had difficulty reaching out to teachers, that could be worse than at present, and that might not have gone well enough. I feel that the committee may not have dealt with this anxiety much, nor has it taken enough of the worry that students in high school have expressed over the matter. Substitution of the Commission and change of motion. paritaprevir Þórarinn the son of Pétursson, as it were, is a sure thing to say, and shall no doubt help. I think it is very important that the group of consultations mentioned there be respect and enunciate their proposals to the council and minister and that the Council of Congress or Ministers after incidents consider, if there is not a proper agreement in the case when the group of consultations comes back, to see if the matter could be delayed further. I think it's important that all of us and our education in this country are very important that we are going the right way and that the way we are going is going to be successful in education.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u122	A respectable president. I think it's just to start by saying that although I'm on the General and Education Committee, I wasn't at the meeting when the case was taken out of the Committee, so I didn't agree with the committee we're discussing here. As most speakers have noted, it is clear from the committee's discussion that there are many opportunities for the development of the school system in the ideas presented in the bill. However, there is a lack of military differences. Often, the difference may be the greatest. This is illustrated by the fact that significant comments have been made to the subject I consider very important. But it can't be reached at this council, it won't be at the scene of the General and Education Committee for the End of Congress, which will be due tomorrow. It's work that needs to be done on account of the Ministry of Education and Culture. The review of the Commission was a big deal about the idea of one permission letter to teach for all levels of school, but it has been shown that a high school teacher's Fégage strongly violates the change while other communities within the teacher's union are more positive about this change. In my opinion, when the lawgiver changes laws directed to the basic rights of working people, it is crucial that it is not in great agreement with the relevant group. This is not to say that everyone should be completely contented but simply that there is no ambiguity over the matter, which, unfortunately, I consider to be the position of permission and high school teacher in particular. That's why I think of the change in motion that has come from the wind. paritaprevir In a fine way, Ingi Pétursson makes a specific amount of space to try to get the peace involved by delaying a draft and adding temporary arrangements for a group to handle these matters. In addition, I think that with this postponement, it is simply out of harmony with the cold reality of the matter, which is that the infrastructure was not expected to receive this change before the next school year. A education agency would have had to change their systems, and I guess it didn't get in time, so this adjustment proposal is in good reality, and I'm happy to. However, it is important to keep it in place that although the permission letter took a substantial part of the committee's coverage, it is not the only thing missing from the military service. I'm going to say "arma rematch" because there's not a lot of money left. It should be possible to use a few weeks, a few months, in a fallmisser to cover this situation if everyone comes forward to the table. As an example of such material, a teacher's body is given a broad part in the bill. It was noted that its role is uncertain and that it is important to clarify more clearly the formality of the Council, including the Governing Body. taking into account the role of comparable teaching levels in foreign lands Also, legalization is a big change. It was noted that their content was characterised by current education policies, but education is being revised in these days as well as that conflicts may arise between the qualifications and the quality and abilities that the university has defined as the input of a teacher's education, which is also being revised in these days. There's a lot in the dough that this case would do well by talking to each other. It has also been suggested that the bill reduces the specialised ability and education of teachers and that because it is very important that the implementation of driving criteria is carefully checked and that there is a possibility that the criteria themselves are defined in a Regulation rather than in the law as presented here. These two points, teacher's advice and qualifications, came to form in the review of the Teacher Union, the Ideas Committee of Teachers in Iceland, and to them there is no failure in the proposals of the General and Education Committee. It was then noted that the bill is designed to ensure professional security for teachers who move between school ladders, but they have so far had to rely on temporary guidance as instructors. This has been a shocking situation for teachers who could, of course, be solved by those who run the school simply paying them as teachers rather than protracting them into their instructor's pay or that those who run school would value the instructor's work closer to the teacher's work, that the individual's contribution was appreciated more. There's some stratospherics that may be more at home in collective agreements, but this increased flow is something that some of the teachers' organisations are celebrating. In turn, the common relationship, e.g. sets a question mark on why they are not looking for ways to strengthen the position of those who do not have teachers and permission letters, such as pre-schoolers who have had the same insecurity as other instructors, who accept one year's employment contracts but who are often very good at their job. Like what? paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson said: "All you have to do is be a good teacher with empathy and ideologies and good heart condition. This is not in the norms of the Board of Education and Board of Education, but it should be in the opinion that lies ahead. Then we will remain with the question as a reason. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson asked: "Well, if we're delaying the case by delaying its execution, why not postpone the case as well? We have two ways to do this. We can change the law today and create the reconciliation tomorrow. This leads to the change in the motion of Þórarinn Pétursson. However, we can create the reconciliation today and change the law tomorrow. I like the second edition because the second edition, the one based on the adjustment proposal, carries the risk that the conversation in the reconciliation committee goes off and we face it at the end of this year, when the law works, that there has been no reconciliation, and that there have been no changes in the case. Thus, we would have done what I love so much that we would not, therefore, have changed the standards of the law that would direct our attention to the fundamental rights of working people into nonsense with that group.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u123	V.E.G. President. I must admit, there is no special attraction for me in this bill. I'm not saying that I'm against it or that I vote against it, but I have somehow a feeling that there's more trouble than it's supposed to be. The commission said that the cause of the bill is a lack of teachers and innovation in a class of teachers. True, there is now other news. I have to be sure there's something here that's improving according to the present situation. There's a lot of opposition to this bill, especially with high school teachers. To me, school is just a different school phase. I was wondering that at the same time as we're extending our teaching school, whether it's in preschoolers or underschool teachers, we've just extended it from three years to five to make sure that it's a good professional knowledge to teach this age group, the next thing we're going to allow people who may have taken a BA degree or an MA degree, or a BS/MS degree in college, and for one winter they're going to be taught these same kids, they'll have a permission letter on it. So why were we changing this study from three years to five years? Here is somehow wandering back and forth, giving one message that it is so important when we teach our children, the youngest, that they have five years of college after a student's study, and then we can have some college student there for three years or even five or one winter in teaching, and he can start teaching. We cannot afford to give to a headmistress who has had all the classes and has been in the oversight of a school teacher, even for 30 years, a permission letter to teach, just not at all. I sense that it's the best resistance for high school teachers to do this. Still, I would have thought that it could be most useful to them, the best possible option for all of them. I find it hard to imagine that students in high school who have such knowledge to teach the subjects very well, which is quite different from teaching in high school and teaching high school at high school. I'm not talking about high school. Still, there may be some window point with top grades in high school. But I think it's a lot more natural to take a closer look at it, to think that high school teachers could also teach in high school, where the subject is more to be taught than to keep completely around the children, or the teenagers in that case. I'm afraid this will create more problems than was intended to solve, I'm not talking about if all the teachers are somehow up to the ceiling, more or less, about this bill. I realize it's a administrative bill, and I'm in the board and I'm very fond of this case's prominent authority, but it's very difficult for me to agree with it, even though it may not be possible that I might specifically oppose it. I just wanted to point this out. I feel that it is normal to take a closer look and agree with it. Councilmen Guðmundur Thorsson Thorson and Jón Valdimarsson, who are in advance. These are significant changes, and they can have some consequences. We need to look at all the events that might arise and try to look better at this, to get more solidarity, to find some changes, to have some cut points - that could be a nursery teacher and for the youngest years at a basic school with the same license, and to have some form of permission at the top school and then the high school. But if there's only one permission slip for anything, as different as these school levels are in many ways, at least at a certain age, I think it would be a good idea to take a closer look at this. I think I'm gonna call it a day.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u124	V.E.G. President. This is for many things because of an interesting subject discussed here, the case we've discussed as one permission letter. It's a good idea, a good idea, in my opinion, to increase the flexibility and ability of the teacher's job whether it's in a high school, play, or play. It is being continued as a parapolitic organization has been about increasing the security and diversity of the teacher's working environment, the possibility of going between the school ladders, while at the same time using it to promote and strengthen the system and make it more diverse so that there are different needs of all the persons within the school system. And we're always taking, in my opinion, each time a positive step forward in that direction. Prolongation of instruction studies has been controversial. I still believe that it was the right step, convinced that it was the right step to extending the training program. Many say that applications to the teacher's school went down after it was extended. This is not correct; applications were already beginning to decrease in 2003-◯2004. Certain developments continued until 2010 in a teaching school that may not have been positive. The extension of the teacher's study was primarily made in relation to a comprehensive review of the school law in acting, elementary and high school, and the requirements that we set out at our time and, as I say, transpolent partnerships were about the prolongation of our teaching school for five years. Finland, Finland, and Finland were talked a lot about teaching school. They also worked in great agreement with all the teachers' classes, play, basic and high school. It is of utmost importance to bear in mind that this was not default, but it is important that the change was done in harmony with the teachers'class and role models. Visit Finland. On the other hand, I have once, twice and more criticism from this platform that after the arrest of the law, and then perhaps after a collapse, the application of the teacher's school was not followed sufficiently. The development was not to be that it was merely an extension of teaching as such, but to increase the level of teaching, work at the field, which was not being done sufficiently. So I'd like to be glad that it's being done today. If I've understood the highest. Ministers are not compromising the requirement, but we are actually doing so as the lawgiver's will at the time was, extending it, on the other hand, promoting professional knowledge and teaching, but we are also going to expand our experience in the field, as well as working more effectively with our rural communities. are responsible for the pre-school and pre-school phases, and then do the same since high school. This is the kind of thing that I think it's important to be in good shape, that we show that we don't expect less of teachers and teachers than we do for other important jobs that we focus on in Icelandic society. This is a key position for Icelandic society and its development to provide specific instruments and to enable our children and society to cope with a broad variety of futures that must be ours. That means we need a powerful teacher we have, as described above, and I'm a whisker. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, who gave just a fine talk on how we see the teachers, what qualities they should have, and we can happily see it every day, as we have children who have gone through all the school stages. It is important to see this flexibility in between, make the system flexible, not compromising demands, that we have a measure of ambition and a less - than - long perspective. And there are many things that can be helped. I believe that there will be changes to the loan system set for improvement. But what I am doing now is that I believe that, first of all, this can be achieved under the present arrangement and put to the test this flexibility now in law, making it possible for secondary high school teachers or elementary teachers. Clearly, there are differences in viewpoint within the Teacher relationship. School and acting teachers want this change, but high school teachers are on their own. That is understandable. I can feel it so that although this case has been handled well by the Committee, it will only be better to give it a little more time. Yet, there is a suggestion. paritaprevir Þórarinn, Ingi of Pétursson, is worthy of all attention. I think that's exactly what I'm trying to do by extending these views, and I think she'd be at least to improve, but for all the difficult or controversial issues across classes - if they have had a little more time to grow up, to give more space to it, and a chance to talk to the person, the system as well as that, whether it's a Education Institute or a Ministry of Education, they've always improved. I can't remember any case that's been suspended, moved back and then agreed, made any worse. I do not quickly remember that the situation has gotten worse by becoming approved at the next council. I think I'm under so much. It's so much up to us that we'll make the most of it. I speak out of good experience there, I hope I don't sound full of pride, but I made it clear to go off with certain changes in not enough agreement with teachers and other things. It was nice to hang around and get even. The ten points or steps of the agreement at the time, which were of great importance to all work later on in terms of the entire school legislation, the education of teachers, and much more. In my best kind, I think this important thought, which is underlying on the bill, and I agree on the flexibility of learning and the ability of teachers, to give it more time. I know it's the highest. A minister of education would do all he could to achieve even greater solidarity, and I stress that I am convinced that the matter would not get worse. It's worth testing, and I don't like the tone, either. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson said, I don't even have the hopes and hopes that there's a solidarity in all matters. It's not like that, nor is it, but more solidarity can be achieved. Things don't go right through here. I wondered, if what you hear and feel inside the teachers'class that the teachers' class will be divided, possibly being scattered, I ask, because we're doing it now in this way: Who benefits? Is it beneficial for the school system or for the teachers'caste as if they had not put up with even greater solidarity? For whom does a divided class benefit? It is not an advantage for school, for schools, for students who know that they go to high school, elementary school, and most of them. There has to be a nice conversation between you and me. Despite certain differences, there must be stretch and flexibility between the two groups and a regular prayer, so I wonder about each divided class of teachers. It may be best for politicians, perhaps best for the Minister of Education and managers at any time, to take each class for herself, that might be better than taking the cast as a whole, but I don't like that view. That's why I say again in all my kindness that this is a matter that I believe can be better won during summer and immediately on autumn days and then work at the next council. During our restoration, we have shown that we have come to such a lengthy approach. We're being resolved, we're not doing it to delay the case, we're putting this out, or I'm doing it for my parties, so that there's more convergence in the approach and solidarity of this interesting case that has to do with one permission letter. That may have been all on my part, but I hope that story helps us understand my approach. I think it's worth the effort to make one more tour, although I underscore that the committee has done it well, the Ministry, not a question, and also a suggestion. paritaprevir Þórarinn, son of Pétursson, about a change in this. I think it's more than worth thinking about and encouraging the minister and the council to take better care of this. It is also worth noting that this is one of the issues that we in our responsible government sided forward and said: This can be reversed. This can lead to a date in the last meters. This matter is controversial, but it turns out that it was clear from the leaders of the government groups, Prime Minister, Chairman of the Foreign Party, and Chairman of the Independence Party that the people were concerned with getting this settled. I understand that people want to get things done, but this is a matter that I think can be even better with a little more overexplanment and coverage.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u125	Mr. President. I'm giving a commission on a new bill to legalize the assessment of environmental impacts from 2000, No. 106/2000, and will briefly explain this bill. It was so that the original conversion bill contained several rules beyond what the production of the EEA makes, but the bill here is a pure production bill of this type, as is more clearly explained in the committee opinion I'm going through the following. The commission received 20 reviews and received nine visitors, and it worked in a rather short period of time. This bill, Mr. President, is proposed to change the environmental impact assessment of the implementation of the European Parliament's Directive and the 2014/52/EU since 16 April 2014 for the change in Directive 2011/92/ESB for assessments of effects set out by the official and private bodies may affect the environment to be introduced by 16 May 2017. The bill is also responding to the EFTA Court's judgment on the violation of treaties against Iceland (No. E-6/18) of May 14 s. since Iceland hasn't adopted its directive. A bill for the implementation of the directive was submitted to a Council of 148th but was not granted. The Bible's Viewpoint, No. 123/2010, and Environmental Assessment Act, No. 105/2006. The bill suggests a number of changes in the law and in the new recommendations, such as provisions for the duration of the decision on the basis of assessment, detailed requirements for information in the primary assessment report, counter-improvement and action monitoring. It is then proposed to integrate reports and to combine assessments of environmental impacts by law, environmental assessments and planning laws. There was a suggestion that in some respects the bill is being extended beyond the directive and that this would contribute to more quality if the case was delayed and that it would also review a comprehensive review of the environmental impact assessment laws. The Environment and Resource Minister has already appointed a group of workers who have been entrusted with a comprehensive review of environmental impact assessments. In accordance with the commission of the task force, it is required to submit to the bill at the latest on January 1, 2020. The Commission believes that in view of the judgment of the EFTA Court it is necessary to complete the implementation of the directive at the current council, but not delay its payment and wait for the results of the task force. Mr. President. The commission suggests a change in the bill, which includes a clean implementation of a directive, as stated earlier. Therefore, the Commission suggests that the laws not directly subject to the implementation of the directive will be removed, as defined in the definitions of the law, which is included in the a◯e team 1. and 7th and 8th. The bill. Then the Committee suggests that a-involved b-joints grow 3. the content of environmental impact assessments is expressed in accordance with the wording of the directive. The Committee suggests that on the current work at a full review of the Treaty on environmental impact assessments and related laws, special attention should be given to the definitions between law columns. It is also suggested that regulations involving the selection of the specified regulations in Article 4 and 6 of the Directive should be disposed of. The bill. The Commission suggests a set time limit for the decision to re-evaluate environmental assessment to Article 11. The bill will be removed and directed to the Environment and Resource Ministry that there will be a thorough review of the total reassessment of environmental impact in which the Committee stated that it would need to be more time to examine the change and its impact. It is also suggested that the adjustment of the organizational laws in terms of the change in the time of implementation from 12 months to two years is directly related to the regulations of the bill for the timeliness to the decision on the environmental assessment. Other factors suggested by the Committee are related to the above changes to the bill. It's suggested that the law's office be held on September 1st. to provide more time for development as a result of the changes made by the bill. In addition, the committee suggests some adjustments. So it is that the committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the above changes proposed to a special Senate document. Bergþór Ólason and Karl Gauti Hjaltason were away at the hearing. Helga Vala Helgadóttir and Hanna Katrín Friðriksson were away from the case but signed this with a warrant at 4. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Then write under the words of Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, the first vice president and spokesman, Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Helga Vala, the daughter of Helgadóttir, the daughter of Líneik Sævarsdóttir Savar, the daughter of Rósa Vilhjálmur Brynfjölótir, Vilimur the Árnason, and Hanna Katrín Friðriksson. Mr. President. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u126	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a panel of committees on billing for mail services from a greater part of the Environment and Transport Committee. It's like the highest. The president passed the bill to that level. 293, the committee's opinion of fish. 1916 and the requested changes. 1917. The committee has discussed the matter and has arranged for a number of visitors. There were 11 reviews, along with government memos. The bill is suggested to accept a new mail service legislation that replaces law No. 19/2002. The main focus of the bill is the execution of the government's private rights at the postmark and the opening of the postal market as well as the full-mail service is ensured and the use of al-service costs if not available on market grounds. With the bill, the European Parliament and the 2008 Council's directives on further changes to the mail directive (third of the mail directive) have been implemented into Icelandic rights. The majority of it considers that the bill is an important step in the development of the postmarket development of the state's exclusive right to the mail market, but Iceland is the only state in the EEA that has not left its private rights and introduced the third mail directive. The comments on the matter were that the main policy was positive, but it is clear that deduction of the exclusive court is accompanied by a number of solutions and challenges. At the end of a discussion on the bill, the National Reassessment of certain points of Iceland's management completed and returned a report to the General. This assessment was followed by the request of a legal committee. A major point is that the report published by the State Review Committee and its contents has not been published by members of the Parliament. The majority of the rights to provide the Parliament's committees with a reason for further adjustment or action on the mail service can be provided to an environment and transport committee at any time for a change in the postal law or a proposal to be accepted. The more part shows that the next year's program will be valid, so there will be room for response if necessary. However, it is urgent that the decision of the General Assembly on private rights to the postal services be made in advance so that necessary preparation can begin and sufficient time needed to prepare before the law takes effect. I don't think so. I will not review it from word to word, but chapter 1 is about competition in the mail market. One of the main purposes of the bill is the execution of the government's exclusive rights to the postal market. The bill thus opens the way for competition in that market. In view of the greater part, the decision to take care of the private rights is a timely step. Whether and how much competition this market will compete, however, there has been a marked decrease in the number of messages in recent years, as well as the role of postal services has changed dramatically with the development of electronic communication. Clearly, however, a postal service is a key factor in the growing shop of individuals, including in the country area where shopping is a long way off. Mail service is also important for jobs that rely on services for goods and goods sale, including through a website that can be located anywhere in the country. The development of the postal market has been rapid in recent years and is likely to continue. So time must reveal the developments in the postal market as a competitive market. The next chapter in the poll is about a range of values as 2.gro. The bill says so. This section simply holds out that this bill will leave no change between transport and postal services. It's still the same with this bill. Then you will find a section on the input of an alminist, par. The bill. It is recommended that the system input be performed in Article 9. but the general service is a minimal mail service which all users should have access on an equal scale. The directive covers distribution of all-time mails to be usually two days per week, but a minister will be authorized to reduce the number of distribution days by Regulation. A strong criticism of the secretary's authorization was made, and it was noted that the number of days of distribution and, as a result, the emptying of a mailbox could have a major impact on individuals and businesses, especially in rural areas. EICs that send goods to customers in other parts of the country and to operators who rely on deliveries, such as stocks or pharmaceuticals, in mail. The majority of the countries believe that an adequate level of service is maintained in the mail service and that high - speed access to the region does not solve all issues, but it is clear that packages cannot go through electronic connections. However, the majority of them believe that there is a right basis for reducing the number of distribution days, for special circumstances, or for the needs of users in the region, geographic conditions, or technology, as it is possible to meet the needs of users in a different way. Adds a greater portion to 41 st. This is consistent. Therefore, direct the more part to the minister to look to the above opinions in the implementation of the distribution dates in the public service. In this way, the more part stresses that there may be opportunities for traveling contractors in the mail services and other publicised driving services, as there is a need for EEA government policy and competitive legislation. In view of the greater part, it is necessary to take into consideration the general needs of consumers in the field of mail services, changes in technology solutions, and changes in trade practices. It will, for example, be there. considered that an international service should be considered at the time of delivery, rather than the number of distribution days. Further technicalisation also provides an opportunity to increase the information available to consumers, such as the delivery status and the time and location of transmissions and notifications of consumers to the demand for services at certain sites and times. If so, consider the choice of a service provider in an international service section, as discussed in Article 11. It contains a provision for selecting a service employer who is obliged to provide an public service. Three different means of managing the services are expected, i.e. that there are agreements to provide services, that the service provider is appointed or that there is an invitation. The secretary is assigned to decide which route he has taken. The majority stress that this decision will be considered to ensure that transparency is present, including the cost of services. In addition, it is necessary to make a decision based on the necessary information. That puts you in 1 1. to find the permission of a secretary to conduct a market survey where it is determined whether it is necessary to ensure services by contract or appointment. As shown in the report, such a market study can include: showed an interest in the market to provide the services defined in the law as the full-time service of the market presidents. If the survey revealed that the market will not perform a minimum service, it would be a minister to make the next decision to secure the ministry. In view of the greater part, it is up to the full effort to promote competition in the postmarket, which is in line with the main subject of the bill for opening markets for competition by repealing the State's exclusive rights. The majority count very positive, therefore, that a decision is made on the basis of a market survey and has the right to achieve such observations for the target areas and/or the number of mails. The committee discussed whether it would be appropriate for a minister to conduct a market survey before deciding on a service route. The more part doesn't think it's time, and the market will take time to adapt to changing rules and circumstances. Thus, the majority do not suggest a change in this issue, but the importance of allowing circumstances to make decisions on the way to secure services based on such market analyses is emphasized. However, the majority suggest a change of 3 mg. 1 1. that an invitation is added, and the law is certainly intended to reach all three of the means that can be used to ensure minimal service. This will be discussed next on the Constitution of an intermediate organisation with reference to Article 17. and there the committee proposes a change. With a reference to equality and settlement, the majority of the shares feel that alminists are not the same in all countries, and they contribute to a change of 17 and 18 degrees. ritonavir. Next comes the 40th chapter of penalties. However, as often indicated in this discourse, it is important that legal documents be clear and direct and meet the standards of 1 mg. Sixty-niner. republics, No. 33/144, of the clarity of the penalty rules. The committee felt that there was a lack of clear violations of the law and suggests a change to explain it. Next chapter discusses foreign mails and electronic transmissions. With a change in the law of mail services performed earlier at this assembly by law No. 23/2019 That the operator was allowed to post a deposit for foreign mail e-mails that are due to meet the actual cost of shipments as well as changes in Icelandic mail law more than international commitments in the field of mail. These changes were made earlier during this council, and together with the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs, changes in the bill will be made in harmony with the changes that have already taken place. The changes follow that the committee suggests 4 mg. Thirty-eight. falling away, for which an adverse endpoint will be met during the above - mentioned change. The majority of the objects pervades what appeared in a committee mask with the bill that became the law of No. 23/209, this price for foreign reimbursement is not used to cover the costs of anything other than those directly involved in the foreign mail. It is urgent that consumers, in an easy way, familiarize themselves with the exact amount of money they pay for their foreign mail shipments and that they recognize which service is paid each time. This will focus the more part on the Email and Network and provide mail services to register the aims of promoting practicality so that, as a minimum of the cost, the hosts of services to attend, e.g. that a receiver who arrives late at the post office does not pay for storage costs and the end of the world. Then, the next chapter of the non-insurmountable number shipment of pars. The committee discussed some ways to minimize the negative environmental effects of unsolicited mass transmission. The Commission did not consider it a time to make any changes in this provision, but it directed the Ministry to consider whether the environment would be appropriate to alter the criteria for the acceptance of unsolicited mass broadcasts, e.g. so that the receiver needs to request a reception rather than a specific request not to receive multiple deliveries. It is clear, however, that the change of conditions of this kind requires a measure of preparation and preparation, and various viewpoints needed to be examined. The larger changes have been attributed, but there are several more changes, e.g. is a correct definition of liability. The definition of the definition of the sender is set up and then provided with the changes to the registered addresses of individuals and enterprises, i.e. A national record covers the legal home of individuals, while a business file with the company's legal home is put in place to make sure that these files are used. This is followed by a modification in terms of the application of the Post and Communication Network, i.e. Allows e-mail drivers or an intermediate provider to provide mail services to others who use certain facilities. The Commission suggests that there is no intervention between the Post and Communication Administration only if the agreement has been tested for access, payment and conditions between those who provide the mail service. Then there is a change in the obligation of the public service employer to issue stamps, in fact, just consistent text between the bill's articles, and then suggests that the mail and communications agency will be assigned to issue mail codes and the geographic epithelium of mail numbers. Iceland has taken care of the mail number file. Similarly, the P.P. and P.P. list are required to be distributed open and free. Then the more part suggests a change every time for the Post and Communication Network to respond to the reports of a change in currency. This delay has been three months, but the majority of the items feel that it is appropriate to make 30 active days in relation to the interests of mail companies and consumers, as well as that it would be expected that an mail and communications agency would prioritize such tasks. In addition, several legal adjustments are made. Taking into account the above points, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes proposed in a special Senate document, as mentioned earlier. Under the heading, the writer of this article, Dr. Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótttir, Jón Gunnarsson, chairman of the Committee, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Vilmimáson, Karl Gauti Einar Hjaltason, and Bergþór Ólason, and Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjordsdólóttir, signed under a warrant in 4 mgr. 18th par. Coral regulations of regular committees. Finally, I want to thank you for your cooperation with the Committee on Work on the bill. This was discussed for a long time and was concomitantly included. Work in telecommunications policies and communication programs and other communications matters that the committee worked on during the spring convention.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u127	Mr. President. In other words, we'll discuss a bill to legalize mail services, new legislation that replaces law since 2002. The main focus of the bill is the execution of the state's private rights in the postmark and opening of markets, as well as the full-time mail service, and the application of al-service costs, if not available on market grounds. The bill introduces the European Parliament's Directive and the Council No. 2008 for further changes to the 97/67/EC Mail Directive, to be followed correctly, and this mail directive is the third order, i.e. The so-called third package we'll talk about here. These are long - term changes, and the tide has been long. It's good to be in the way of the end of this process. I'm glad this is the step of removing the government's exclusive rights and opening up competition in the postmarket. Iceland is the only country in the European Economic Area that has not taken away the above exclusive and this step long enough, so I'll re-select it. This does not change the fact that certain issues have come about that make me wish that more of the committee would have taken time to handle them in a different and better way. I might get to that later. A meeting of the Environment and Transport Committee with the Contestant showed that it was common for the surveillance to receive complaints on markets that spring out of state isolation. Furthermore, reforms aimed at opening up competition had been more successful in communications than in post - mail service. The reason for this discussion is that some people in this room will remember a time when it was interwoven. It is interesting to examine the development of a communications market in this context, to examine the pioneers who entered the market when it opened, how the environment changed through the introduction of the European Economic Directive, how competitive legislation and competitive surveillance played a role, as well as the post-authority and communications agency. When it comes to what is not right here, and it has made it possible that the mail service environment has been semiheated in comparison with communication, the answer is that we have not had the environment of the European Economic Area so far and now we are fixing it with this legislation. It is both right and good to maintain it at the times in which we live here and in the atmosphere that sometimes prevails in the council as a result of the European Economic Convention. The reviews of this matter were a key factor. However, it is clear that delinquency of the exclusive court comes with a number of solutions. Based on the opinion of more part of the Environment and Transport Committee as the executive, why. paritaprevir Dr. Anna Sævarsdóttir, a good time has arrived for most of these matters. I agree much with what it says, but one of the many critics deserves more coverage. In short, it is the fact that we here discuss a change in total mail service laws, including the following: and the post-reimbursement of the state's private rights and opening of the market, without having gone into or obtained analysis of the operations and competitiveness of Iceland's mail, including actual cost of the whole service part. The need for such things has been repeatedly discussed, including At a Senate Hall, especially during the past few months. Earlier this winter was e.g. Discussing the need to obtain an assessment of the National Review of certain aspects of Iceland's management because of the financial problems the company has had and because of the means of meeting the challenge with the potential conflict in areas where the European Commission operates in the mail. This refers to the fact that Iceland is on the other side of a patent and in a business free to compete with other people. It is for us to make sure that competition is not overdone by a private agency. The conclusion of this discussion was that the Allied Fundament Committee called for the review of The Kingdom Review and then returned a report in the week. It is a source of frustration and surprise that this work was being done by most of the Environment and Transport Committee and, in fact, a greater part of the management and monitoring committee, to prevent members of the Parliament from taking advantage of this report or the review of the National Review of certain aspects of Iceland's operation on the payment of this case. It doesn't matter how you look at it, on the other hand, you're looking at the activities of a company called Iceland St. It's interwoven, and it can't be separated, especially in view of the influences I've specified here, i.e. The economic burden of Iceland's mail and the response to the problem. Today, at a meeting of the environment and transportation committee, when the committee was taken out of question. paritaprevir The Helga Vala Helgadóttir presents a book, which includes protesting that the P.R.P. is taken out of the Committee prior to the committee's review or report of the National Research Centre in Iceland. I'll take my heart to that accounting. Mr. President. I'm not gonna say anything more. As I mentioned earlier, the person who spoke before me went anyway. paritaprevir Dr. Anna Sævarsdóttir, the leading guide of the greater part, well over a number of subjects that touch this bill. A lot of it's very well worked and I agree with it, but at the same time I'm here considering my share of the environment and transport committee as well as the rest. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir. The audience officer Leví Gunnarsson agrees with that opinion. This smaller section considers the introduction of the EEA directive to disbarrent private rights in the mail service with the bill this long time. However, he feels it is unfortunate for the changes to go through in the shadow of the more serious comments that have been made on Iceland's E - mail account. and at unassigned and funded costs of the enterprise in the public service. The memory loss of the network is not desirable to be taken out of an environment and transport committee prior to the Commission's review of the National Re-evaluation project in Iceland, although it performs the activities of the bill to strengthen competitiveness in the mail market. Clearly, to ensure that the greatest market competition and balance, the cost of Iceland's E - mail has to be met. to be made public to all the people of the country, especially to the people or to those who are taking over the business. As a result, a smaller proportion of the Committee will be added to the bill requiring that information on the cost of Iceland's mail in the implementation of public services will be collected and made available to the public and public. In spite of regulations 42rd par. of the office of the law on January 1st, 2020, shall the minister immediately begin his work. In view of the greater part of the Committee, the selection of the services provider and the market survey is referred to as Article 11. The bill. Is there three different means of providing services, i.e. The service host's contract, that the service provider is appointed, or that an invitation is issued. Code 11. It includes important improvements in current legal conditions, but is not fully consistent with the results of the European Commission on All-Advelopment, which was submitted to transport and rural Ministers in September 2017. The Commission concluded that the State could do several ways to finance an public service, but the committee considered it important that market and competitive routes were always a challenge in implementing an all - time service before other routes were started. As a result, roads that called for public contributions would be a real problem. To this end, the experience of telecommunications funds and Kingdom Halls could be used in the analysis of market failures as well as the implementation of organisations and the implementation of broadcasts for communications outside the market area. The Project Committee considered an invitation to be an option rather than an appointment and developed this position by the Committee, most important of all, by stressing the development of active competition for the postmarket market. A smaller part of the Environment and Transport Committee will agree with this decision by the Committee, suggesting that there will be no longer any sources from the bill and, instead, stated more carefully on invitations offered on the choice of an all-time provider. A report by the Committee also stated that to promote competition, it would be possible to export the invitation so that staging would be based on more factors than just price. This would allow the parties to give points that do not have the market position in the mail market but, for example, offer. introduces innovations in the field of mail distribution that are most useful in scattered and small areas. However, this would be done at the State's expense if the most practical offer of such stairs would be taken, not simply the lowest. For such a commission, the Minister must set up in accordance with the regulations of other preparations, terms, implementation and financing of spontaneous tenders. Sets a smaller section of the Committee to be entrusted to the minister by a change of 1 mg. 41 st. The bill. The minority agrees with the majority on the importance of choosing the selection to secure services based on market surveys and suggest a change of 11 g. to ensure that a minister will be obliged to conduct such a survey to evaluate which areas of the country is most suitable to ensure advising services. The reduction in the number of changes here attributed to further competition for mail markets and to ensure that decisions are public, transparent, and consumer interests. Therefore, the lesser part suggests that the bill will be approved by the adjustment proposed in a special Senate document. As noted earlier, publications by the name of Hanna Friðriksson Friðaksson and Helga Vala Helgadóttir, and Bea Leví Gunnarsson, an officer of the Environment and Transport Committee, agree with the opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u128	Mr. President. Here we will refer to a bill for a new overall access to mail services, a global law that changes the environment of the country's mail services. It is available that private rights in the mail service are on the move, making a decision as to how we're going to manage matters regarding the distribution of mail across the country. The goal of the law is to promote practical, effective and reliable mail services throughout the country as well as from the country. Thus it is intended to ensure access to services as defined at any given time and by promoting competition for the market for mail services. Mr. President. The European Commission's third e-mail directive is being implemented and the State's exclusive rights will be made available for post-mail services and the market will be opened. Iceland is the last EEA to implement this directive, and it can be said that once again we are far behind other European countries during the induction process, from 2008 onward. Mr. President. It is not as if this decree came out of heaven and we need to act quickly, far from it, since it has been anticipated in the past decade or so. It has been anticipated in the past decade that the U.S. personal right of the United States to deliver mail would be removed sooner or later than now, when it is finally becoming reality, the government is just not quite ready, unfortunately. In a discussion about Iceland e-mails. In the past few years and in the poor situation that that that society has undeniably been in, there has always been talk of the intention of private rights and how important it is to prepare and ensure the status of Iceland espionage and that we have something to look at here. Has the government fulfilled this role? No, the government has once again slept in the sleep of the righteous, and the rest of us are standing here with an official partner who is both in an acute financial crisis and a persistent existence crisis in which Iceland's government is just not doing anything. And a lot of it. The environment and transport authorities are not going to do anything about it either. I'm not going to trace new things or changes in the law. There's a lot of good in these entire law and some things that have been carefully worked, but it can't be overlooked that just a few days ago, just before the weekend, one of the Alduke's surveillance agencies, the independent and independent Government Reexamination, a comprehensive report that has been completed for the past few months, covering the status of Iceland's e-mail, operating environment, and future options. It also discusses private rights and suggestions for future mail services in the country. And what does it do? The Environment and Transport Committee, which is covering the global mail legislation at the requested report, on the important information contained in the report? Nothing. Hv. Environmental and transport committees have not seen the report. Hv. The Environment and Transport Committee does not want to see the report. The Executive Department at the National Parliament does not want the National Committee to see and win the report, and it does not want the Committee to be aware of what is being done in the report before a legal decision is made in the order of the magnitude we are dealing with here. There is no way that this morning the person we read had been gigged when it turned out to be true. Therefore, Mr. President, I cannot, under any circumstances, prescribe the treatment that the government is doing here. The majority of the environment and transport committees have repeatedly requested what to do. The Environment and Transport Committee will wait until the Commission study the contents of a report by the National Review Committee. At a meeting this afternoon, memory of the part of the environment and transport committees was made up of reasons to protest that the case should be taken out of the committee today. This isn't date, Mr. President. There is no immediate danger, and the law should take effect on January 1, 2020. In particular, it was requested that this case be asked out, that the committee study the content of the report on the Icelandic e-mail and the post-mail service, for the services, for the overall service burden. No, it's better not to do research. The case was taken out, despite the fact that an office commissioned by the Council to investigate the Society's office has produced a report. It is known that prior to the next year, there is no validation of mail service laws within the bill and that the less part of the committee was able to try to solve its problems, react to what it says, if needed, instead of immediately attending the next leg of law to correct what has already been done, that it was worth fixing before the damage is done, before the law takes effect with any additionals after the total law has been agreed. There is a possibility that private rights in the mail service will be removed. It has been in the past, but such a fundamental change is required by the counsellor's carefulness and carefulness. Mr. President. Unfortunately, it is all too common at the International Assembly for legislation to take place without seeing the end of the consequences of legalization, the implementation of legislation, etc. When the damage is done, then the Allied begins to sew butts, shapes, and bars, and the overall picture is lost, and the law, unfortunately, becomes a worse structure than necessary. We've seen this repeatedly, unfortunately. Mail service is the basic service the Icelandic state has performed and can be called the postal services of an infrastructure. Therefore, it is essential that governments take seriously the task of ensuring an public service and that the one responsible for the majority of it should not be created as a person. To be a handmaker to do this service, a person whom Icelandic taxpayers have now had to flush hundreds and thousands of millions into recent years. Mr. President. What are we talking about? Are we talking about some quality practice? Are we talking about total vision? Are we talking about calming down? I, with the permission of the President, am going to read from the Committee's list of parts in terms of the selection of the service provider. It says about 1 1 1. The bill, by permission of the President: ▪ Three different means of ensuring an public service [...] Minister is assigned to determine which way to go. [...] In addition, it is necessary to make a decision based on the necessary information. The Commission does not intend to suggest anything, but it emphasizes that the selection of a service provider will be considered to ensure that transparency is present, including on the cost of services, on the basis of the necessary information being decided, the report speaks of the identification of a secretary's licence to conduct a market survey evaluating whether it is necessary to ensure that all services are made by contract or by appointment. The committee thus feels that it is important to perform a thorough investigation and study. Then you cannot refuse to ask: " How is it possible that this work has not begun? ' How could it be when we're implementing a 2008 directive that this has not been done seriously, either in the Ministry or in the work of the Committee? Why wasn't the Ministry long ago done what needs to be done? More of it. The environment and transport committees in their panels say that the decision to make a service partner is based on the necessary information. What does this mean, Mr. President? Why does the greater part of the Committee not consider it necessary for the European Parliament, the highest legal body of the country, to prepare their decisions for legislation when deciding on basic services for needed information? Why do you want more things anyway? The Environment and Transport Committee and clearly the EEA's greater part at the Council at all, that this legislation is based on the necessary information? As a woman of great interest in careful legalization, it's completely incomprehensible. Mr. President. Sadly, these methods and methods cannot be addressed by the government and are not available at all. The Environment and Transport Committee, which seems to be a timer for the government, will, of course, be standing by when this second important network in Iceland comes for a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u129	A respectable president. You can't help but react, at least in short, the indistinguishable speech, and sort of innuendos and innuendos that are presented here to members of the committee. Environmental and Transport Committee. People are aware of the report. A financial committee requested that the company be prepared for the operation of Iceland e-mail. It was reported in the week that this report was received to the Generals and at the meeting of the Commission and the Commission, a decision was made to refer the report to a financial committee that has not yet taken it for material purposes, since we are here in the last days of the Parliament to contribute to the completion of the work. So how amazing it is to listen to declarations and trinkets toward us who have had quite good cooperation! There has been some fine peace in this committee. The report covers the activities of a certain company that has been in the mail service, Iceland's mail. Certainly it can overlap to some extent with this bill, which is here involved in the future mail services in Iceland, nothing particularly about this company. Our evaluation was to approach the matter with a particular expression, such as why. The head of the committee's opinion of the greater part went over the past and directed certain messages in the committee's opinion to those who work on the legal process used here. Of course, this report will be addressed appropriately. I haven't seen her, and I don't know what's in her. I assume that we, on the Environment and Transport Committee of the Parliament, will cooperate in the field of the Committee. The financial committee when it comes to its processing on this report. Then, in the fall of that year, there will be an opportunity to respond if there is a special basis for doing so. This law is then carried out by the government, and it is clearly discussed in these laws and in the members of the Committee, where it should be done. No one needs to think of anything other than the application of the information contained in this report if it is to be involved in this matter and this vision. I'm sorry. paritaprevir This is how Helga Vala Helgadóttir should try to question the fine cooperation and work done by the members of the committee. Environmental and Transport Committee. I think it's an ugly spot on the wonderful cooperation we've had in the past few weeks and months about this and so many others. A respectable president. I hope we don't let the end of the council make such a mess.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u130	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is very excited for his speech, and he wants to respond to accusations about innuendos and indignities that I am supposed to have made in my speech. One thing is true, as shown in the case of the other. A senator, e.g. that a budget committee has not published a report on material treatment. Then I'll believe it as well. A senator said that he had not read a report on the National Reexamination of Iceland, which is confidential and therefore not to have any access to it or its contents, since he is neither a member of the Commission and Control Committee nor a chief. It's a legal committee. This is a matter of faithful works. Then I have to say, everyone who's been in committee conference at night. The Environment and Transport Committee has come to realize that the person being present and the rest of the minority has at every meeting where this programme on mail services mentioned that this case will not be taken out of the committee and taken care of unless we have seen a report by the National Review of Iceland. This has been mentioned by the Commission's perfect integrity at every meeting that has been discussed. I must say that there came the one standing here, and I know that there were more members, completely surprised that this case should be run through now when this is not a date issue. These laws are to be applied on January 1, 2020. There is nothing that stands in the way of private rights being graded for the next year. All I'm asking is that the greater part is now trying to procrastinate instead of running a case through, just because he can, and not even trying to base it on the information that has come to the council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u131	The President reminds me of why. The senator should respect the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u132	Mr. President. The committee's opinion of a majority of the commissions lies in the Senate document and is traditional. It explains how the committee's work was handled, which reviews were received, and who came before the committee. I'm not going to trace it. However, it is possible that in this case the majority of the committee would oppose the legalization of this bill. However, in view of the agreement in connection with the end of the council that the matter would be settled from a committee and treated at the council, the majority of the committees did not violate the fact that the matter was taken out. If I quote, by permission of the president, in the opinion of the committee, it will be presented as follows: ▪ In handling the matter before the committee, there was a general agreement among guests that it was time to revise human names, No. 45/1996, and there is a need to make certain changes in the law, including the role of the CREEP Committee, a set of names and names of men and women, a mismanagement to use foreign names on descendants depending on their personal or middle name, and more. In this context, the greater part shows that the Ministry of Internal Affairs began to examine in 2015 whether it was necessary to revise human names, No. 45/1996, and called for public opinion on a possible revision of the law. The Ministry introduced the program to the bill in 2016 and was given the opportunity to give a review. However, as indicated by the review of this committee, the Ministry has not taken a stand on the future issue, even though the work that was done in earlier years is still under way. The article then states: ▪ Again, the view that this bill led to new, even unpredictable prognostications. There was a lack of further application of the procedure and/or explanations in the report on the reasons for not stipulation, e.g. Advice on the names, type of writing, order of names, middle names, names, or names of people. In addition, the Committee pointed out the importance of taking into account Icelandic language, Icelandic language, and Icelandic nouns. In view of the above, the greater part considers that legislation in this field will be considered more closely. According to the majority estimate, changes in the structure of human names and human names need to be made in other ways, where the name is not separated from the Icelandic language. In addition, it cannot be stated about the consequences or effects of the bill. So the more part feels that it is not possible to accept the bill. Under this committee, publications, as well as here, va. paritaprevir President Páll Magnússon, who was an executive director in the process of the committee opinion, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Kolbrún Kolbrönnadótttir, Árnadóttir Þóra Arannadótir, and Tóri Ingi Pétursson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u133	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is a big fan of the majority opinion. I would like to be curious about one thing in view of the fact that this bill is being suggested to validate new universal laws on names of people, with the goal of ensuring the highest right and self - sufficiency of people to have the name they choose and to respect the self - determination of people's names. I read the above section's opinion and listened attentively to a storyteller, huh? paritaprevir Birgir Ármannsson. Nowhere in the poll are people's freedoms, the importance of freedom, the importance of people's making decisions about their names, but the majority do not recommend that the bill be accepted. There's nothing inside the picture, but it's some kind of technical confirmation or defense for the state of the nominee, which in itself is not surprising, considering the way the government is on the general scale. But in view of the fact that now that this same government has adopted a pregnancy break in which there is a high priority on women's ego rights, and a legal law on sexual autonomy, with rich emphasis on sexual rights, but I can't imagine allowing people to choose their names or their descendants, I just don't understand it. I wonder what. A senator may, in a short answer, be able to help me understand the straggility of the greater part of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u134	Mr. President. Maybe it's why. To some extent, a senator's view of those who formed a greater part of the committee in this matter differs in various products of opinion. The major agents may not have decided exactly where they want to go about this. They agree that there is a need for a review of human names, but they believe that the bill as it is presented here is not really ready for approval. I can inform you, however, that the majority of the officials share this in this matter, and now I may not speak 100% for everyone in the greater part because the attitudes of the people may vary in this respect, that their attitude is largely concerned by the Icelandic language and its development. I think I speak to others in the greater part of my life that the changes presented here are of utmost importance when you look to them. I hope that to some extent this will clarify my position, since it is mentioned in the committee that the majority of the officials believe that the tradition of names and the nameliness of our Icelanders have an uncontaminated relationship with the Icelandic language. It is well - known and noted in the comments of many people, and it was observed to visitors who met in the matter that those who want to protect the Icelandic language are concerned about how far this bill goes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u135	Thank you. The senator's answer. I want now, just to prevent misunderstandings, to make sure. A senator says that I love the English language very much. I, however, believe that it prospers best in the greatest of freedoms. I think that's a long way from putting the ideas of change in human names into the head of an Icelandic noun. I just want to see that name tradition flourishing in freedom. I want it to remain tradition because people choose, not because it's a law. Hv. A senator speaks of this as a radical change. But the bill changed on the committee. I don't sit on this committee, but I'm telling you, the more part, the majority opinion, the less it's going to be in front of me. There the opportunity for the courts to influence this bill began in the direction that the greater part could possibly have settled. But I stopped for a second at the answer. A senator said that the majority of the decision on which he would like to go is not finally made. I have a feeling that it is, and the conclusion was that it wasn't meant to be accepted. I even built it. that it is specifically used as a reason not to agree on this matter, that there is a lack of advice on human name changes, about nouns, writing style, order names, etc. But the fact is, in the process of making changes, this advice is strictly applicable. You might think that this waste could have been ready and that much of it was completely aware and that it would have come to a definitive conclusion about where he wanted to go. So it's a little strange. But I'm not necessarily going to insist. A senator will answer this question unless he wants to answer. [[The president calls.]] Maybe he corrected me. Maybe this is an empty misunderstanding, and deep down, everyone is willing to change the human name law, just if it's done somehow differently and at some point later.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u136	V.E.G. President. Yeah, to some extent, it's a big misunderstanding. A senator, i.e. when she cites this quote in the context of the committee's opinion. It refers to viewpoints presented to the committee. It is the paragraph beginning with the words: "There was an opinion at the time when the work that took place in the committee was referred to. I can totally agree that by reason of the case. General Education and Education Committee, huh? paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson, was given a lot of work to do in connection with the case. I believe, however, that I can speak for myself and for others on the Committee that people have not been convinced that the avenues suggested there were sufficiently convincing, since roles are taken by human committees and other institutions or governments are partly involved in the role of human committees in some case and the like. Despite my respect for my job as a dog. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson worked hard in this work, but I don't think people have come to believe that the final outcome was when the committee decided. In view of how these matters should develop, I just have to repeat what I said before, that the representatives of a greater part of the General and Education Committee that are supposed to be involved in this committee have no necessarily a common view of how far to go in these matters. However, I believe that in the ministry and in this committee party, a sincere willingness was made to review human names and make changes, although there may be a conclusion about how far to go. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u137	A respectable president. I hereby recommend my share of the General and Education Committee in case of No. Nine of man's names. The bill is suggested to validate new universal names. At the same time, no. 45/1996. The objective of the bill is to ensure the richest right and self - sufficiency of people to bear the name or name they choose, as well as the freedom of people to define their gender. Then it is proposed that the Human Name Committee be put down and all the regulations concerning it be removed. The Committee discussed various issues of the matter, such as selection of personal names and identification names and definitions of names, parents' responsibility and access to their parents and guardians of their children's names, registration of genders to national records, names to a host of names, names to the Committee of Human Names and Secrets of Ministers. First, consider the Icelandic noun and the Icelandic language system. The goal of the bill is that people will be free to bear the names they want. The minority, however, consider the Icelandic name - name tradition an important heritage to be respected and to introduce to all who choose children names or to themselves as adults. The lesser part, however, does not see how it is possible to place such things on the law without being overly concerned with the freedoms being set here to secure. In my opinion, there has been no convincing evidence that the Icelandic language is a danger of foreign names. Foreign human names have been added to the human home reserve since the beginning of Iceland without damaging the language system. In addition, human names laws apply exclusively to Icelandic citizens, but here is and will always be a large number of foreign citizens who need to talk to, talk about, and record with the government and can have their names in different ways. Although the digital language may be threatened in a digital century, the minority cannot see that the names of foreigners in Iceland are threatened or threatened. Then the most likely aspect of a law on names, the names of human names, is discussed. A human name - names law would include a fairly extensive role, but with this bill approved, it would no longer be needed, with significantly less limits on the identity of individuals. So the bill suggests putting down the committee. However, the Human Name Committee has played a role that is worth keeping in, such as being counselling and counseling for the public on names and giving names, since much of the people in Iceland love the tradition of names, so they have sought the opinion of the Committee for its decisionlessness and regardless of its authority. The lesser part considers it important to continue such counseling and guidance but does not have reason to keep a special committee. Thus, the minority suggests that the Agency of the Year Magnús, in Icelandic studies, legalizes the role of counseling the public on names, names of men's names, writing style, and dents. Within the most remarkable institution, there are both anthropological and grammatical fields that would be good for dealing with this project. Then refer to your personal names and names. It is suggested in the bill that the rules for the formation of names be clearly cleared. Interpretations are no longer required, but a person will be allowed to choose the number of personal names that he chooses as well as the names of his name. The bill also suggests that girls are no longer given male names and male names, and there is no reason for such restrictions. 3 mg. 1st par. The bill says that identification names are made so that after a personal name or personal name comes the name of a parent or parents on a special property drop plus the accepted son, daughter, child, or brush. Now it may not always be that the names of parents carry with them a special form of property and that the smaller things will change that take into account the fact. In addition, the smaller item suggests that a person who has neutral registrations in a national registry is permitted to use a parent's name or mother for a loss in a nominal name without an additional one. Is that also in accordance with the bill for the sexual autonomy laws that recently became legal. Then the commission was made clear the importance of being permitted to teach children to a stepparent or foster parent. So the lesser part suggests adding such a warrant to Article 1. The bill. Then let us discuss the approach of parents and their guardians to change their names. The bill says that parents are responsible for a announcement regardless of whether a child is given a name during an act of a registered religion or a life - care institution. The committee noted that this could be a problem if parents do not share the custody of a child. So the lesser part suggests that instead of the word ▪ parents to the part of the matter, those who exercise custody will come to their child's attention. In addition, the lesser part suggests changes in the way a child is named according to Article 2. It was noted that children 15 years of age had the right to change their name without the consent of a guardian. This would be in accordance with the impression that the child's progressive right to make decisions based on age and development. The minority feels that there is evidence to allow parents of 15 years of age and older who have matured to take sides in such changes to change their name without the presence of a guardian. It was also important that, in the face of opposition from a guardian, the transponders of that age can change their names. In contrast, a cautionary view was found that children 15 years of age and older could change their name without any help from a guardian. It would be a difference, however, that the child's will and attitude would be increased as age grows, and taking away responsibility, both guardians and governments, on matters that concern children. It would be important for children to have minimal protection on these matters from the Lawgiver, the government, and the prescientist, especially if they were to increase their freedoms in the field of names in general. A similar opinion was introduced by a new release case on sexual autonomy, which was blessedly recently approved by the high Council. The smaller portion considered appropriate to be consistent with their age-control set, which included age-change criteria for modification of gender and its name concomitantly increased to 18 years; however, an interim II requirement requires review of age criteria to change the registry of gender. The minority notes that it is desirable that the laws on names will also be reviewed in this respect, as described above. These will be discussed with name - bearing individuals. The law on names of people contains a law that does not upset a personal name. The bill does not contain such a law, but it does say that it does not. that parents in general should trust to choose their children names that will not bother them. The committee established a view that it is important to have a legal authority to respond to any claims that might cause children to bother, and the lawgiver should continue to delegate such a charge despite the loss of a human committee. The lesser part agrees with the importance of making sure that children do not have to have names that might upset them. So the smaller section suggests that if the Iceland National Registry reports the personal name of a child less than 18 years of age who is expected to become a member of the national name, the name should not be recorded at this time in a national file. In addition, the National Congress of Iceland will be commissioned to issue a decision on the topic as soon as possible and no later than four weeks after the announcement of its personal name. Then the smaller item suggests that Iceland's National Registry will be permitted to obtain the resignation of the Agency Magnússon and Children's agent before making a decision. In this case, the Minister shall agree the details of the procedure in the regulations. Then the smaller item suggests that Iceland's National Registry accepts its commission to handle a human name file to make it available for a file that can be opened with known and approved personal names. It shall be discussed with the Minister's Regulation. The opinions were reflected on the Committee's discussion that by curing the limits of individual selection on a name, they are dependent on various technical factors to be considered, e.g. whether or not the maximum length of names should be mentioned, whether or not to use any other alphabet other than the Icelandic and, if so, how to record them, whether or not to use symbols in the name, etc. Such factors are primarily technical aspects, so it is not necessary for the lawgiver to set precise rules that can change regularly. The minority therefore feels that it is advisable to state the duties of the Minister in order to set up a Regulation with further instructions on the implementation of the law, including: on the type, transcription rules and distribution of names and suggest a modification of the content to explain the existing Regulation in Article 7. The bill. They should be discussed the rights of the transparticle and the registration of gender in a national file. Today, after 18 months of sexual correction, individuals can apply only for their name and gender to be corrected into a national file. This must be received from a team of specialists within the hospital. A name is an important part of an individual's identity, and it can be very restrictive if governments prevent a person from changing his name according to his gender. The ability to interpret a name without the means of the government should be self - righteous and would, at the same time, bring considerable benefits to this group, in the opinion of the minority. In the 9th. The bill discusses changes in other laws, as well as national and public registration laws and children's law. In paragraph 1 of paragraph 9. The bill is proposed to change the children's law that a child's sex will be allowed to be enrolled into a national record of male, female, or otherwise. "B" number two, section 9. it also states that 8 p.m. is 8 p.m. the law on national and public registration is improved by a new paragraph which says that changes in the registry of gender should depend on the same limitations as changes in the registration of names. The minority suggests that these two components will be removed, i.e. Number one and number two. Count 9. The bill, in view of the newly released laws on sexual autonomy, discusses individual authority to convert the registered sex to national records. By allowing sex to be recorded impartially, everyone must have a name for either male or female. By free registration and/or registration of gender, it is evident that a name cannot be conclusively defined by any name anymore. Then it should be discussed about the value of the bill if it is accepted. The Committee provided indications on the problems of national and other Member States because data and information systems were not equipped to deal with the changes made by the bill. Both time and funding were needed to cope with the necessary changes, and the founding of the Year Magnús needed to prepare for new responsibilities and projects. However, it should be noted that some of the changes involved in this bill are the same as those already intended for the new sexual autonomic legislation. The minority, however, feels that it is proper to meet these views and therefore suggest that the law will not be valid until January 1, 2020, but it will also be granted an extension to July 1, 2021, to fix forms, registrations, and so on. Finally, the smaller item suggests a provisional directive that, according to the regulations of the law, if the names of the laws are recorded in a national file, the names of the names are allowed to be changed, and that the names listed are named according to the rules of the law, they choose to do so. The right to your name will be protected according to the 71nd chapter. The constitution and 8th par. European Convention of Human Rights. There have been significant changes in modern society over the past few decades, in which progressive steps have been taken to increase the individual's freedom to make personal decisions. Considering the role of the Lawgiver in the case of human names, it is necessary to consider that there will be no longer than is necessary and that individual rights will not be unduly restricted. By means of the approved bill, individuals will be greatly reduced. So the smaller section suggests that the bill will be approved by the changes outlined here and can be found on the screen. 1915. Under the view of this publication. Councilmen, the one standing here, the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson and Steindór Valdimarsson. A respectable president. I've now explained the opinion of my share in the payment of the case from the General and Education Committee. However, it is appropriate to respond to the logic presented in the members of the greater section. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ Again, the view that this bill led to new, even unpredictable prognostications. There was a lack of further implementation of the arrangements and/or explanations in the report on the reasons for not stipulation, e.g. Advice on the names, type of writing, order of names, middle names, names, or names of people. In addition, the commission was made clear the importance of taking into account Icelandic language, Icelandic language, and Icelandic tradition of names. You should briefly discuss these matters. They are of two ways, one of which is that it is not an unpredictable concept but a political concept as a matter of course. Parliaments simply disagree on and, on the other hand, what is considered as a matter of opinion is dealt with in a very clear way in terms of the loss of the object. As for counseling about the title, the less part of the company will be in the hands of the Aarhus. In the matter of writing, he will be free but limited by technical considerations stated in the Regulation of Ministers. Perhaps. People may object that it is made free, but this does not include unforeseen occurrences that are not responded to in terms of the loss of the object. In terms of a series of names, a personal name precedes a name and is hard to see how it can be considered to be considered, much less an unpredictable figure. For intermediate names, it is clear in the opinion of the object as well as its personal name to take place and that people who now have middle names can choose between them. Again, there may be a political issue. Congress members discuss that change is bad, but they do not explain why. No matter what, there is nothing unpredictable about that statement. In terms of a human name file, it is stated in my opinion that Iceland's National Constitution should hold such a list and that it is met. In terms of a problem, it is also stated in the opinion of a minority that a national file should not record a name considered a child's problem. There is, however, no evidence to include the problem in adults, at least not in a free country. In regard to Icelandic language, Icelandic language, and Icelandic brand - name tradition, the perspective is met by hiding counseling and guidance from the Aarhus. It is also a political issue that is natural, but it is not unpredictable. A respectable president. Finally, I need to have a few words from myself that I cannot say in the name of others who are considered to be publications, although I sincerely hope that they will agree. All of this said, it is worth discussing only the purpose of the bill, the freedom of the individual. It is easy to talk about individual freedoms, especially in campaigns. I find it remarkable how the Independence Party always puts so much emphasis on individual freedoms until they have the opportunity to increase or defend them. Then all of a sudden, he'll be very careful, and he won't go that far, and he'll think the proposal for an increase of freedom might become more radical. But then I'd like to pray. An independent party to do their voters a favor in the next campaign and report ahead to them that as long as it doesn't go as far as the individual freedoms of liberation are concerned, the Pirates and the Conspiracies.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u138	Madam President. I'd like to begin my case with thanks to you. paritaprevir The yearling Birgir of a Ármannsson for the history of the greater part. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for a very detailed review of the minority and the suggestions of the smaller section. This case is about matters as close to individuals as possible - it may not be quite true, and however, we had another case that became legal yesterday that discussed sexual autonomy. The chairman of that matter, Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir, stepped here in a pit and rejoiced rightly that the matter had worked out. She was very happy, and I shared her joy. She said: "It's very important. How important it is that a person can define his or her gender! Similarly, I would like to say: A person's name is extremely important. That's what the bill is all about. The smaller part has worked very hard to make it as well as possible. I also doubt that there are a number of cases that have received as detailed and as many visitors as this one. I think I'm pretty right when I say the case was handled at least 19 meetings of the General and Education Committee. Many reviews came and many visitors, so it is quite certain that the subject has been covered in detail and listened to all the viewpoints. Human names are important. We have a human names law, and we have laws on the names of our names. The Human Name Committee works unappreciatively under current human names, and what I will discuss here as to the influence of this committee has nothing to do with discretion and conscientiousness and good will of the members of the Cabinet Committee and I want it to be clear. Some people really care about Icelandic names, and they think it's extremely important, and I agree in many ways. Then we must ask ourselves: " Is the current system designed to preserve Icelandic names? I took a few examples from the latest decision given by the committee of human names. The latest thing is, it's not supposed to be a Kona, it's not supposed to be a local Zar, it's not supposed to be Zar, it's not called Ingadóra, and it's not supposed to be Sukki. But there are different ways. It's Crows, called Taron, and it's Taron, and it's called Sigarr, and Zoe. Also called Winter and Albjört, which is called Natalí, is not Eðwald. It can be called Ernest, but it can't be Danski, it's not Carlsberg, it's not called "Diego" me, but it's "Ká," and it's "Emma," and it's not Diego, but it's called Tindur. You could call it Ditto. All these are good names, and I have nothing to do with them, and I'm happy with them if people want to name those names and I'm proud of them. That is also the case with the Zíti of Zichites, or Ram, and that is the name of Sál. I ask those interested in Icelandic human name tradition, and I want to protect what already exists. Is this a vivid example of the tradition that is so close to their heart that they cannot consider making changes? My answer is no. I would also like to say that in the minority opinion and suggestions, all the comments that were made except, of course, the basics are taken into consideration, not taken off by men's choice of names. In other words, the less part's opinion and adjustments in the bill include the greater protection of children according to their guidelines than the current law. Then three parties can determine whether a name is made to cause a child to bother, i.e. National records, the Aeronautic Institute, an expert on human names, and the executive of children to protect the welfare of children. Today, there are excellent language experts who use machines to determine what is a child's problem and what is not a problem for a child. In this respect, the protection becomes stronger, but adults are taken responsibility for what they want to name if they choose to change their names as children. This is how men have reasoned, and it was done, for example. when Sukka was rejected, that because he was an adult who wanted to name Sukki, it would be all right for him to be named Sukki. But there was one catch; if a human committee allows man to name Sukki, the name goes on a human name file. And what will happen then? At that time, some child's parents may think of calling the child and calling it Sukka. Since this is not to be done, it must be a way to forbid an adult to determine his name. I don't think that the majority of the committee fell into that pit, and it actually happened, and I don't think that the more part goes against it, that he did nothing to fix, improve, or express his views in the work of the Committee, absolutely nothing. It was now all the interest that the executive of the greater section feels that the committee is about making changes in human names. That's at least How strange an interest that is shown in having nothing to offer, doing nothing good, saying only when the matter is final: Well, this is not our delight, we would like to continue with a job that has slept in the highest order. The Ministry of Justice since 2016. Nothing has been done there, nothing, nothing, nothing in changing these laws, nothing. I hope the one I witness now forgives me. I read an entry on the Facebook that was written by Eiríkur Rögnvaldsson, Professor emeritus. I think that few have contributed as much to make sure that an Icelandic tongue survives and keeps its place. He says that a boy's parents were prevented from baptizing a child in the head of his grandfather. He says: However, the name was of Tensian roots, and the product had worn it without note all his life, but because he was alone in it the name was not traditional and had not been permitted. It dawned on me that laws that prevent a child from being named after his grandfather or grandmother are inhuman. They can't resist. It's not a law. It is unacceptable that we need to continue living with such laws for an unpredictable future. I'll pass on the polite reasons why he has agreed on a certain political party in this context, but I'm going on, with President permission: ▪ It is claimed that changes in human law need to be done with care because of the effects they might have on the Icelandic language. - It's the tone that's hit when they talk about it. Eiríkur Rögnvaldsson, Professor emeritus, continues: ▪ I don't pretend to be less amateur than any other on the preservation and protection of Icelandic, but I've never seen any evidence of this alleged negative effect, since foreign names have been infested with it all along and still do so without Iceland being damaged by it. Madam President. I read in the past several examples of the judgments made by a committee of human names that operates according to current laws, doing so conscientiously. I must ask you why. The U.S. Senate and amateurs for their names are whether these names have been injured by the Icelandic language. I think the answer is very simple: No, indeed. I have to say, I just don't understand, in view of the fact that yesterday, a good part of the council is becoming a new transsexual law. There people agree that people have themselves to tell what kind of people they are. And that's good. What a radical change that is! Yesterday, in the law adopted by the council, the terms of a man - made law were canceled that girls give girl names and boys boys boys names. I ask: "Where was the human tradition then and the concern of men because an Icelandic tongue would suffer permanent harm from that change, I assume, as presented here, at least in some people -- well, in my mind it probably has some effect on how you think and need to stop thinking in class 0:1, a woman: male, and people are already wondering what if there's a boy named Guðrún in each locker room that he should go into the alley. Aren't these completely unpredictable and unpleasant consequences of the great bill we agreed on yesterday? I'd think it was a rather radical and bold change in the council yesterday to make this remarkable decision, which I fully support and am pleased with, but now it is a matter of being so careful that they believe that by this bill, by word of change which is expressed in the opinion of the minority, there is a serious risk that the Icelandic culture, the Icelandic tongue, will be seriously damaged. But at the same time, people don't have anything, nothing, just give it back easy and say, "We don't want it, we don't want it, we don't want it, we don't want it. It is all liberal, all the respect for the individual's rights that crystallize in this lawsuit. I must say, Madam President, I'm disappointed if the generals don't accept this bill, if they don't show what they were bold and fart last night, and they'll last at least make it last. The next 24 hours, to be bold again and forward when this bill and the change in the memory of the object will be elected.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u139	V.E.G. President. In celebration of the speech of the roost. paritaprevir Jón, son of Valdimarsson, is one of the points I would like to emphasize that I believe to be the course of action. A senator shares in this matter. It is that the examples he cites regarding the decision made by the Committee of Human Name stress the need for a review of the legislation. I agree with him that the Human Name Committee has probably tried to fulfill its role with conscientiousness and zeal in harmony with the laws that apply. I would like to say that sometimes a human committee may have been in trouble with the existing rules. There are a number of examples of very strange results in her work and many things that have actually surprised me and amazed me when a man as a player read the news about it. I certainly don't want to get into debates with why. Jón Valdimarsson, I wanted to stress that what he mentions and that there is an example in my mind that supports a review of these legislation, which I would like to say has not proved to be the case. This does not mean that I have come to believe that the solution this table puts on the table is satisfying. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u140	Thank you. A senator resists. I would like to make clear again that the examples I took were not taken to criticize itself or to evaluate or judge names either rejected or accepted by a human committee. I just agree with what. paritaprevir A year's Ármannsson and my lessons are that he intends to set rigid rules and rigid frames, or loose frames about what is named or what is not leading us exactly into the mess that humans are now in with the human name law. So I think that some kind of low-dose cure in giving freedom in this field will always lead us back into the same mess. What I think is the main point of this matter is that we simply face the fact that our modern society, a free society, does not restrict nominal names. I'm 100% sure that in the vast majority of cases the names and the people who give the names or take them will be appropriate. Sometimes they get a little weird, you think, so they get used to them. [[The president calls.]] I don't think there will be any chance that such freedom will lead to the idea that people will be pleased to baptize or name their children or even to some sort of worthless thing. I think it's a completely unprovoked fear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u141	Madam President. I'm not going to spend much time in this discussion. It has been thorough and good, and it has been given a very meaningful and well - defined explanation of the key issues of opinion. I'm not going to repeat it here. I've been involved in the work at a global and educational committee in this case, and I've worked hard to find solutions to problems that have come up. I believe in the present costume this is a good bill, and I support it. Every day or almost every week, there is some debate over the strange names and strange names that are not to be called and why are they called? It will be the input of a discussion of human names and almost merely the input of a discussion of Icelandic affairs, i.e. strange names and some boundaries. There is always a limit to a government committee, and the nation is waiting to wait on whether the committee will permit this name or not. Then no one ever understands anything when the decision comes. A recent example of this is when a woman named Eddudóttir wanted to be a Kona. I'll review it for today's celebration, because today's June 19th. She got a demonstration. Eddudóttir, the daughter of Edud, was given a vision of taking the name of a Kona to Eddudóttir, the daughter of Elín. It was then that the beloved Bagginsur and poet, Valdimar Skúlason, went to an Isthmusian Book, and found out if anyone had got to name a woman in Iceland, if a name ever existed in a book of Iceland. And yet, you know, it turns out that way. One male was found on this search, Jónsson, born 1750. That's a reminder for the women's rights day. Maybe, just in view of this, there's a reason to consider whether it's time to start changing these laws because the Human Name Committee is -- I take my heart to that as a matter of course. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson says of the good people who command them, do their jobs faithfully, and try to do them as best they can. I don't want to belittle the work of those people, but the Human Name Committee is still a child. It is a committee that testifies to a very unique society in which there are relatively few people and rules that are quite clear. It is considered that it is best to resolve matters according to the best of men, some of whom have more knowledge of certain things, and to decide what is best for all. Society is viewed as having greater hands by the way people pursue their daily lives, e.g. what is called, that it is a social task to find out what will be best for them. The Human Committee was not at work in 1750 when the Hákon ◯ woman Jónsson was in the day. I think the Human Name Committee and these measures are the product of the season. This is the mechanism of dosing. It's somehow like names are a limited resource that needs to be named the best of people who handle the limited funds we have here, which are the names of Icelandic people, these best and most familiar people, what names are contained on the human name file that contains the names that may be named. It's, for example. Make sure that a name like Sukki doesn't get into such a file. This name appeared during discussions with the committee, and I have a fact that here is not a reference to excessive drinking but, rather, a different name. The name we bear is some kind of our personal landmark. A good man said that the name we have, the name given to us, most often by our parents, is like a cover in our book of life. It is difficult to think of a more challenging assignment than giving your child a name. One of the greatest choices people can make in life is giving their children names. Such a decision may not seem easy. It is a deep personal decision. Parents who have two parents usually agree on their name, often after long, even difficult negotiations about it. It's not good to think of a title primarily to test the tolerance of a committee of human names. It is not likely in a child's life, and it is not a good cover on a child's life story that the name is primarily thought to test the boundary of a human committee and get into a human name, and to see if a human committee will forbid that name, so excitedly waiting for it. That's not good. But I think the present system promotes this thinking in people on the other side, it's a little given for trying limits. I think freedom in these matters is just what makes people stop thinking so much about strange names, stop trying to find things that are strange, strange, strange, and rare, or the most original names for their children, and try to find a name that would fit the child they have in mind to help grow and thrive. I don't think it's possible to protect the Icelandic language by means of human names. I think the lawgiver can certainly do things to strengthen the Icelandic language and increase its path, as if it were true and as high. A minister of education is in the dark trying to do so at this time. The use of English in everyday life needs to be promoted and used, but I don't think it's likely to be cultivated by a variety of decisions or committees. I don't think I've got it any further than once again I'm referring to a good conversation with him. The members of Valdimarsson Steindordarson and Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, and I hope the World will approve of this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u142	Madam President. The bill on human names is a vital step toward increasing freedom. It is time to turn away from the premeditated thinking that has existed in recent decades through current law. In these, freedom from custody is a well - oiled place. Throughout the centuries, many parents have given their children names in line with their names tradition, since we have stood up for this tradition ourselves. More than a century ago, it was possible for humans to consider making laws on the matter and to bring about a bond of freedom in these matters. The fact that the language is in a continuous process, however, should be respected, and there should be nothing to back up that the tradition of names developed as a result of a change in it. The current human names laws focus mainly on two viewpoints that focus primarily on knowing parents, on the one hand, that parents cannot be trusted to make a decision about their children's names and to prevent them from being given names that might upset them. However, names must be given to Icelandic language. The lack of trust in giving a name to their children is a blow but is still trusted to make all other major decisions about their lives and well - being. This is now presented for the third time in a short period of time and for good reason, for it is long time to change this ancient human law. This case was submitted to a Council of 148, but it was not realized then and is now submitted with a reimbursement taking into account comments received by a General and Education Committee. A new human names bill includes positive changes. The biggest of them is that a personal and intermediate name will no longer be distinguished. They will no longer be obliged to place parental identification names on sexual matters. Then shall the decrees of the genealogy be taken away, that shall state the names for which should be named, and which shall not be. As a result, a group of people will have the privilege of wearing genealogical names that their forefathers themselves chose to record at some point. Last night, there was a code on sexual autonomy approved. They made a major milestone, and what a joy it was to have the opportunity to support them and return them to port! This allowed people to register their race in a national file. They made great changes in human names. The most radical is that names are no longer attached to sex. Now it is no longer required to name girls' names and boys boys' names, so it seems that when it is permitted to enter a sex relationship, everyone must have either a man or a woman's name. Free registration and neutral registration of gender make a name no longer relevant to every name. Now there is another opportunity to bring the right to the people, and I believe that only those who supported the sexual law support this good issue. In the current nominee law, not only do I have the sense of parents but I am being prevented from calling what I want to name - I am, by the way, very much satisfied with my own name. It is appropriate to consider an example in the case of June 19, which is today - in fact, just passing out - but during the days a woman named a woman wanted to be a Kona. It was refused. The stone was then removed by an active comment by a man named Karlsson who protested the woman's wish. So he was the son of a man named Karl, who is a good and accepted name according to current law. With these changes, all persons of 18 years of age will be able to determine their names and current rules that limit which and how names can be dropped. It is vital that we abandon the preconceived thinking that exists in these areas. I urge all members of the council to pay this new bill on the names of their votes and accept important changes in order to increase freedom and to abandon custody and unnecessary intervention.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u143	Madam President. Freedom to name has been the fight of SUS for many years, and for example, find its way. in the last national Summit of Independence Party, where this is, of course, the foundation of freedom. What is so remarkable about freedom that often you have become so accustomed to something that you do not necessarily realize that a person's habit is a death. I'd like to mention that it doesn't necessarily have to be the opposite of freedom, but it still means something you're used to, even loving some kind of tradition, even getting a little proud in your heart when you're abroad and some people ask you if you're a daughter and your husband love that son, because that's something we're used to, and that's our inheritance. I realize that this is just a fraction of our tradition of names and yet part of our history, and I don't think it is the opposite of loving it, but I want more freedom. Besides, I don't think there's a big difference between what's called a lot of talk, when it's said that a problem needs to be done. It is not the opposite of freedom to want to be careful about cultural resources that we love. To say that I can see no better than the change in the bill that has been very well considered here is a great improvement. I wanted to come up here and thank you for your respectable efforts to further freedom.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-19-126.u144	A respectable president. I recommend a synopsis of the evaluation of the financial impact of the state's funds to eliminate the decrease in social security from employment. The proposal is made by a welfare committee. The General concluded to hide the social and child - care minister from making an assessment of its financial impact for the state's funds to eliminate the breakdown of social security due to employment. Independent will be taken into account in cooperation with the Department of Social Affairs. We consider economic influences to evaluate the effect on both the spending gate and the government's income side. As a result of the evaluation, the decommissionment of pensions for employment does not include additional financial expenditures, for March 1, 2020, for the Minister of Social Affairs, which includes the removal of the reduced pension due to employment income. On the other hand, if the assessment shows that the change includes increased financial expenses, the case will be referred to a panel on the interest of the elderly in which there will be general debate on the effects of income restrictions and options for those substances. In a paper with this bill, it says under the permission of a president: ▪ The number of people gave a bill for the current legislation (24th case) that was previously proposed to the 148th legislature Council (Second 51). At the end of Congress on the present council, all classes agreed that this assembly case of the people could be established in the form of this synonym. According to the 23rd floor. Law on Social Security, No. 100/2007, with a special hundred thousand bucks in pensions. a four-to-a-month cut for employment. In addition, in general, pensioners have a twenty - five - mile [ 25,000 kg] [U.S.] vacation limit. This is true of all their income, including income and pension income income. In March 2019, 36,402 individuals had an active right to pension at the State's Insurance Institute. Of these, 32,178 or 88.4% had no recorded employment income. Of the 4,224 pensioners with recorded employment income, 1,535 had incomes ranging from 1,000,550,000. every month and 717 individuals with income range from 50,000 to 600,000Ks. per month. Thus, only 1,972 pensioners had a higher income than a hundred thousand dollars. The operating goal, or 5.4% of all the seniors who were paid by the Agency. However, in this regard it should be kept in mind that a considerable number of persons 67 years of age and older are at work and have not applied for payment, since their employment income makes them incapable of any social payment. The demands have been made on the stakes of the elderly and other bodies to eliminate the total decrease in pension due to employment, and thus have a share. it is claimed that there is no need for additional financial expenses and that financial funds could even benefit from it. Therefore, it is important to assess in some way the effects on the income side of the state's budget for the increase in the employment of sensibilities and the national impact of these changes. Older people in the workforce are valuable workers who have a lot of experience and knowledge. It is important that older ones have the highest provision so that they can live their own lives. Remaining work after the age of sensibilities increases the ability of the elderly to improve their prowess, especially those with the lowest income. Research has shown that work and effectiveness in later years contribute to better health, reduced isolation, and generally have high social value for older citizens, and improved quality of life. It is important to believe that the social security rights system is thus built up to encourage the attention of individuals who are in part or entirely based on government support. It is also important that the improving system is motivated by built - in incentives that contribute to increasing employment participation by people who receive money from social security. The effects of a decrease in employment income, holidays, and the potential for higher levels of employment and, finally, loss of employment due to employment would be evaluated in the management of the elderly and the financial resources of the state. The proposal suggests that social and child - care ministers will be assigned to check their financial impact for the state's funds to eliminate the decrease in social security insurance due to employment and the financial impact of raising the pay cut-offs for employment. It is suggested that this assessment be done by independent persons and in cooperation with Social Services. As a result of the review, the decommissionment of pensions for employment does not include additional expenditures for the State Department of Social Affairs, Children's Ministers, for the next legislation Council, for March 1, 2020, which includes the removal of the reduced pension of public health insurance for the sake of employment. However, if the assessment shows that the change includes further financial expenses, the case will be referred to a panel of interest elderly patients in which there will be general discussion of the impact of revenues and options available for those substances. In this context, I'd like to point out that just over a year ago, i.e. On June 12, 2018, we agreed to the council for a change in taxation law. There we were changing laws originally made to help people and to strengthen them by means of gasoline and by means of a number of sponsors, especially micropliers, but who then became a snare around the person's neck because they were both taxes and impaired, and thus had the effect that the person who considered himself to be receiving e.g. For work, this strength was never obtained because he received a dollar from the individual. I'm afraid there are such bad laws, and here we are trying to extract one such problem, just the one I've never been able to understand, i.e. laws that stop people from working. It's really incomprehensible that in modern society all the things that can be done to prevent people working because in this case we also have to look at those individuals - we're talking about older citizens - who already work with pension funds, have already paid outbacks, and all the extra revenues that come into the state's budget. It is such a direct profit from the income that is under it. In itself, only the evidence shows that the State is paying these individuals today anyway. All the gains if a person starts to work, he earns taxes, he earns valuable taxes, and some good consequences of allowing people to work without cutting his income. I hope that this council proposal is well treated, and I have full faith in the fact that the review of it in which I believe consistently is that it is practical for any government fund to allow senior citizens to work without any impairment.
