ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u1	Before the program is scheduled, the president wants to include the review and discussion of the 1st event, i.e. Council proposal, will be after lunch. Then the president wants to state that there will be an agreement between the 2nd and 3rd sessions as well as an agreement for the increased speaking of prominent speakers on matters, as well as 2 mgr. Sixty-seven. Congress. Committee authors have 15 minutes beyond the time given by the catapult, i.e. Up to 45 minutes in advance, but of course not required to make the full use of that time. It is also added to an audience speaker's speaking session and has it up to 30 minutes. At the same time, there is an agreement to respond fully, i.e. Two times two minutes will be provided by the speakers of the committee's panel.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u2	V.E.G. President. I recommend more of the committee's opinion. Financial policies and financial programs on the one hand and on the other. To keep threads, I intend to review the changes made by most of the Committee, but since we are dealing with them, there have been a number of problems in the economy and thus impacted the discussion of the matter by the Committee. Many events have taken place since the financial program was taken care of. The budget board of March 28th. The key point is a revised policy that is put forward on May 29, so that the time frame is somewhat special in this. Reviewed financial policy is referred to a committee on June 4. Then financial programs will have gone through all this time. The legal committee, a number of reviews on the subject, and visitors, and the terms of the financial agenda, came to the committee. Many things have changed since then, as we can see in these terms, which we tore quite extensively into committee partying much back then. The budget board. Of course, the plan rests, as the law recommends, on a previous course and course. Regarding financial policy, there was much discussion on the legal ground, i.e. this proposal to revise policy. I want to first, following the formal discussion, to talk about the weaknesses in the process of a financial cycle as well as the laws on public finances are expressed, i.e. It's policy and plan. The plan rests on course, and then there are budgets. This is the combination, and the schedule should be reviewed annually. This does not necessarily mean that there is a higher rate of government change than every four years, nor does it mean that there is much change in the economy that calls for major changes because the time frame is so tight in this cycle. I think that's part of what we've experienced in our work on these matters, a respectable president, but I think that with a good, hardworking job and cooperation by a committee, the Ministry and the Organization, there's a very good conclusion in view of a very modified economic supply. It may be that, when we're talking about the government, the communities and public companies are part of it and a revised financial policy allows for greater fluctuations of rural society by changing economic outlooks. It is then assumed that the contribution of public enterprises will still be in a somewhat inferior policy, as referred to in the Committee's list of aspects. The first round. there was little discussion of the economic forecasts of a policy or the fortune - teller's fortune - teller. That's a great improvement over time, both financial and otherwise. The budget calls for more predictions and for the identification of anomalies and fortifications. It is a great improvement in the reports on such issues and also the ability to look into further predictions in connection with this economic outlook of the Habitat, which lays the basis for the policy. When we review current policies intended to continue the whole time, this is a different question about the law and the format, and what makes it wise to do. What arrangements for income and remuneration would it be wise to take into account financial management and economic management? For example, in a paper with a bill on official financial legislation that became a law at the end of 2015, it will be presented at the end of the year. to the point that serious problems in business and inaccessible national contractures can lead to a review of financial policy, i.e. the paper provides more space to look to reason than to form the lyrics of the code in the Law code itself. This is important to me in view of the previous years. of the matter, which was very meaningful and important in this context, when we look at when there is reason to review current policies to live in the ideal period of government. During this time, between the introduction of financial programs and our revised policy comes a revised policy in May. At that time, there has been a very high - quality labour contract, and a whole airline is gone. There are setbacks in tourism and the number of passengers, and this leads to economic shock, as economics talk about handouts, and there's a fluke in here. It's all going to work out at this time. This is a question of uncertainty in a case that becomes more real at the time of our discussion. In their discussion of policy, the committee looked at other economic forecasts and analyses, looking for references in that area in particular. She even got one. at their meeting of diagnostic departments of banks, looking to diagnostic departments, and then, of course, the Federal Bureau of Justice beyond the policy economics. The government in its revised proposal suggests that a newer course would allow for a variation of financial policy, which is 0.4% of gross domestic product. It is to meet to some extent the trend that can be called a downturn and we're badly affected - a financial adviser describes it so well in his references to this point as a straitjacket - when we have a financial program that is on the floor of the policy. In this respect, more flexibility is being set so that plans can be better maintained, so that more is attached to policies and policy development. This is a very important, respectable president, and I think there's a lot more to it and it's going to make financial management more firm in the future, since we can't expect this to be a more permanent showdown. While there is always a great responsibility to control such situations, we do not address the problems that result from doing so in a downturn. Now we're pushing ourselves into what is being done in the way of public financial law and perhaps especially that we're tied on the floor of the policy. Hv. A legal committee gave careful consideration to the subject and took into account the interests of others other than the Hausum, who met with a new projection in May. The daily budget rests on the February forecast, so there's a pretty big swing, up to 3%. Instead of 2.6% of economic growth, contractions are predicted to decrease to 0.2%. Once the committee has considered aberrant analysis and other economic forecasts, it is the committee's proposal to improve the scope from 0.4% of GDP to 0.8%, evaluating that it is wise to deal with the present uncertainty, if considered economic forecasts, that economic outlooks could develop in a worse way than the Habitat predicts. A total of 12 billion room is 0.4%, and it would be very unfortunate if we were to reevaluate our policy in a year. That's why there's a greater estimate of things. The legislators so, on the grounds that the economic progress may be worse, and not much room for responding without painful measures and unwiseness, which might exaggerate such an increased fluctuation, to increase this distance to 0.8% of GDP. It is important to draw up the results of this discussion on the form and the basis of changing or reevaluating current policy, in which it is assumed that it is in the opinion of a financial body and is presented in a panel of more part of the legal committees to consider that the basis for the review and change to the current financial policy is in accordance with baseline and the terms of the legislation on the review of financial policy. This is an important, dignified president, and a greater part of the committee is especially moving forward. At the same time, I'm going to refer to the committee's opinion for further support of this adjustment form in the larger section, a more dignified president, that in the present economic situation, it is not appropriate to resort to severe maintenance measures or to raise taxes. Such measures may result in further contractions of the economy rather than in promoting stability, which is one of the values to be considered. The majority agree with this view, pointing out that a single financial policy would include a marked increase in the maintenance of government budgets between this and the next year at a delicate time in the economy. So I'd like to go to the end of this formal financial discussion, I'd like to link this financial debate to the automatic fluctuation process. It works in such a way that downstairs increase unemployment rates, and we see it so clearly in the budget and the pay fund. On the income side, however, there is a decline in income from the state's financial resources. It's what we call automatic swingers, and it's important not to go beyond our budgets. Although we want to take action, to build up our economy and to supply oxygen, it is important to look to this automatic balance. There may be mainly timing of action that is difficult in this regard. I'd like to draw up this financial tip here, and we'll do it at a committee party more than that. The financial policy has its direct connection with the financial program that I'm going to discuss. The proposal is to follow financial policy, and it is important to draw out that by making this change, we are in fact putting aside the rule of survival, which, in turn, will be set aside in the years 2019◯2021, the requirement that the total balance of the five-year period will be positive and the rule of the law will return from 2022 and then be reactivated to a new provision of terms in terms of government over a five-year period. It is also said, a respectable president, that the debt rate of the state's budget is changing, with now scheduled to pay off debts rather slowly down than previously assumed. This, in turn, affects the budget. The greater part suggests that this proposal will be agreed with the changes I have considered, a respected president, and is explained rather by the opinion of more of the budgetary and proposed in a special Senate document. Under the opinion of this publication, the following column. Councilmen, who stands here, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Páll Magnússon, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, and Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir Gunnardsdótir. As the law dictates, financial agendas rest on financial policy, and I tend to go up to some of the committees. The budget board for the proposal for interpretation of budgetary protocols for the period 2020,2024. The committee received 63 reviews, and numerous meetings were conducted, and the Committee also received reviews of professional committees, very helpful comments that the committee could give consideration to their work. I have considered only the changes in the economic premiums that made it possible for us to revise current policies and changes to the Commission. This, of course, is what is first considered in the Committee's list of parts relating to financial programmes. It presents national forecasting and the changes in the projections and most changes in the negative direction for 2019 and 2020, and all major aspects of the land production are reduced from February through May. As I said, the rate of economic growth decreases by 1.9 percentage points which means that the current estimate is 0.2% of contractions. There are these changes that have progressed with collective agreements, hairy and falling WOW argir that is over here and I'm not going to go any closer. I reviewed them when I discussed the committee's view of financial policy. I'd like to state here, a respectable president, that the last financial plan was in common with the committee for indications. It is a pleasure to see many of them being dealt with, but the committee stresses and makes it more important to consider the changes we feel will respond further and draw them out in the committee's list of parts. After all the reports were born, I'd like to say, weighing the financial Council and is a very important part of all the coverage and work with the financial and financial issues. We, in the majority of the committees, draw forward to our committees the useful tips of a financial committee, and here we are for the first time using the revised government programme for current policies. Thus, financial counsel is to give for the first time such an opinion. What I would like to draw out here in terms of policy development, as policy development is a major challenge in the economic situation, such as financial advice puts it, and with less economic growth, all other aspects of economic management are tested, but we have faced such challenges. years and will further test the baseline level of caution. So it is sobering to think, as I mentioned earlier, that plans have always been put into the floor of policy development, and this is how governments have created this straitjacket that then appeared to us when we are taking care of the matter and the expenses. It's hard to get out of it, but I appreciate it so that the changes the Committee's making in financial policy would improve those issues and put the curve more on course, allowing us to make more of a financial effort. At that time, financial advice highlights the importance of involvement between government and money and money. We draw to the Commission's list of parts, and I stress that perhaps because of the lack of money, a financial agency has not had plans for the future and financial income of its decisions, but that is a big improvement. We'll see how these three members of the economy, labour market, state of money and money - it's important that there's a lot of transparency and plans. In this last decision of the money policy committee, we may see it, a more dignified president, although it is not possible to state, yet I do believe that with a reasonable bargain and a state-of-the-state transparency, there is a greater chance that the money policy can take into account, for we saw a decrease in interest of growth in the last decision made by the money policy committee. I hope that's an indication that there's an added interaction here. I think that's very important for the future in all economic management. I would also like to draw it out here, because the committee has discussed it much in its own indications and it shows in the opinion of a financial body, that it is important to assess the needs of public employees and give a lecture on how their priorities should be conducted. These are the main points that I wanted to draw up the opinion of a financial body in the context of economic advancement and policy and strategy. The majority of the committees make a number of changes in the schedule recommended. During our discussion of the changes made by the committee, we called with good support the secretary of the Committee for information and arranged for the secretary of the Committee to bring up a budget development from 2011. Then we're looking at this period in which we see a swing from the time, where we're getting back from the financial collapse that I'm not going to discuss in particular here. We've watched a great fluke and a great deal of euphemism, many of which have had. Congress officials have criticized talks and publications because it is an important baseline law on public finances that is called sustainable. We can't in this budget just watch the growth. A very interesting table is included here as a package, a fine foundation for which changes and measures need to be taken. Of course, it's all worked together, it's financial policy and financial programs at the top. So we need to work with the Ministry of finance that keeps us awake. There must be a very good cooperation between the committee, especially the majority of the Committee that forms the national sector, and then the secretary and the Ministry of finance because these are large tables and diagnostics that need to be passed. After extensive diagnostic work and coverage, the committee makes everything up to one point, a number of adjustments. It has often been criticized over the years - in fact, we do not have a very long history in this system of government finance, policy, and planning - that so far the council has made small changes, or financial committees, on financial programs, and none, despite having had many tips. I'm not going to say, more dignified President, that it's necessary now because there's such a stir in the economy. I think that's much more because the committee is developing into a new work ethic and a new environment. Nevertheless, it is very important that members of the Parliament - professional committees gave very helpful reviews and strategists when they arrived at the case - and the committee looks to the development of costs, how income has developed, the economic trend and the economic prospects, the economic developments ahead, and always look to the level of adjustments in the circumstances that exist. I appreciate it so much, Mr. Honorable President that it is exactly what the committee has done. More of it. In addition, the legal committee, in its pages, through the changes made by the Committee, provides a basic table on the development of budgets from 2018, i.e. ... sincethe administration will take over, and out of the time of the strategy we'll discuss here. Maybe there's a little to take, so I'll try to wrap this up, of course, there's a closer dislocation in all of the leaflets, to evaluate this in the context of income contractions that results from such a sudden down cycle. It's a major recession, and then it's to decide how we're going to react. Where should we load? Here is a current structure plan on a number of areas, very important as we know and have discussed earlier in this building, for transport, for health, for welfare, for innovation, for environment, to climate. The climate is not much, but the result is - the most important thing in this is that by taking down and letting them out, the public, the community, benefit from the strong status of the state funds, the reasonable financial management of the past few years, with emphasis on paying off debt and reducing interest rates, we are in a position to meet this sudden swing and to ensure that there is a plan, almost unchanged, respectable president, which is a sign of strength. However, stability is also being looked to at at at baseline and it is very important, so in the year 2020, we are not seeing much change. It is also important in the context of the fact that we are going, just after we walk out of this council hall or we have an assembly that could possibly become, to start working on the budget. If there had been a major financial change in 2020, then we could see some adjustments in economic forecasts into the period we're going to work on the budget, it would have been quite tricky to bring it all together. So it's very important. I'd also like to say in that context, not only with the budget, but with the fact that every year, every year, as the law assumes, we reexamine the plan. Then we'll get into trouble. The budget and the council, as well as the professional committees after the events of the next financial programme, can go through all the teams when we are looking from 2021 to the other end, preparing for the entire Ministry, all the professionals, and reviewing the situation then, and then we know more about the economic wind that has occurred after that time, this year, and can measure it from that date and make wise decisions to that end. We're going to walk on the shores and make use of the reserves, but only to a legal level about 1% of the budgets. As a result of the change in topic coverage, the majority of the items have compiled the basic information I covered, a respected president. I then rely on most of my colleagues. The legal committee to explain these changes. Of course, there are always changes proposed by the government and in cooperation with a minister and in the process of coming to the board that weighs and evaluates, deals with, and makes changes, as the trial is here. Then there are the points that the committee specifically considered, and I rely on my colleagues to review it better and to put my mind on these topics. We will be included in an article on each topic field. I can mention it here that the state accountant published a report on the county position and we took it in particular and in terms of it. The management and monitoring committee, as well as the introduction of a report, the challenge and the review of the European Commission, stressing that the Ministry is working with the county to make the operation sustainable and reevaluate the criteria behind that operation. What a joy it is that we can contribute there to expand the budget by 150 million! What a joy it is to see the development of innovation, a respectable president, throughout the years, and from 2011, is the subject New World Translation, research, and fields of knowledge, of course, the future! Economic growth is especially a matter of education, innovation, research, and knowledge. Since then, governments have blessedly looked to this. We've been here on the issues of the past few days and weeks, a respectable president who is about to feed, to the health of livestock, and to the health of human health. Here are some suggestions from the majority of the Committee to place extra money on food research. Farm research and sea research are issues that we have discussed in connection with fish farms and the development of fish species. This takes on the committee and adds money to this fund, so we are making many adjustments. We have a special chapter after our meeting with a company member of the welfare services, and here is also an excellent report from what happened. the welfare committee in the front panel for that service, nursing homes, and the structure of all who are truly expected in a financial program, a great structure. The majority of the committees think that, with good cooperation with corporate welfare services, the Ministry and the people involved, they are able to make better use of the resources and housing and see how different the plans are. I know my colleagues and vice president were. The legislature board, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, has taken a very good look at these matters and will consider them better here. A respectable president. I wasn't going to be that long, but it's been a long time on the committee's table and there's a lot of talk going on, and then it's important to the economy and the economy. At the end, I would like to mention a pleasant proposal made by the Committee to negotiate a health minister with the light that falls under the topic range 32, People Health and the welfare board. The majority stress that a minister makes a service agreement with the light and that it will be 150 million. K. annual sum which is in accordance with the Ministry's assessment of the need for services and after a professional review of the Ministry and a conversation and a mutual willingness of the party to cancel the contract as part of the medical services and an essential and essential component of cancer-defined service. I especially care about this phase and the change in the development of more parts. I want at the end, a respectable president, to thank the Commission for work on the coverage, all of which. A budget board that was working on this objective in a particular situation and a changing situation, as I entered it, and perhaps more changes in less time than we have experienced and requisite circumstances that influenced both the course and the financial plan. I think this has a good partnership, a willingness and a job, and especially a good job development, as usual, with a secretary of the Committee. I want to thank them especially for good work and data work. Then I'd like to thank someone else. The constant committee for helpful comments on the subject. The greater part suggests that this proposal will be agreed with the changes made in the opinion and proposals made in a special Senate document. Under the opinion of a greater proportion of financial legal committees on publications written here, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Páll Magnússon, Njáll Friðbertsson, and Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u3	A respectable president. The talk was given. The senator's review of the budget should be made each year. I've mentioned earlier that this is a misunderstanding about the purpose of financial planning. The purpose of financial planning is to put government policy ahead and what measures there are costs and priorities to achieve that policy, achieve that goal. A new policy is established, not every year, in a new financial programme, but in reevaluation of the costs and priorities of the measures proposed to achieve the policy. I think maybe it would be a good idea to call economic policy a part of itself and the financial agenda, since it really is government policy, but the bike cannot be found again each year for financial planning. It's supposed to be a first-time financial programme, and then it's just a cost every year, really. What is missing also in the process mentioned, the financial and financial process, are the annual reports of Ministers and the long-term report we have not yet received. It is missing, and all of this is missing in the financial program and the budget that enables a secretary's annual report to be possible, since without its goals, without priorities, we do not know whether the policy of the government has been achieved unless it is presented in a very clear and meaningful way that is not done in a financial program. I'd like to have a reaction. A senator, the chairman of a legal committee, about this misunderstanding that is simply in the words of many members of Congress, that there is only a reevaluation of financial programs each year as nothing is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u4	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví's Gunnarsson for a very good question, an important question, and for giving me - if there have been any misunderstandings in my words about it - the opportunity to make just this traditional policy process in the work of public finance is very important. I want to justify what I was trying to do in my speech, the importance of drawing in space, getting the flexibility in policy, and the firmness in the plan. That doesn't make any difference because it's a traditional policy process - I agree with it. A senator - when we set some vision and are going to receive a political vision in this process for each of the highest positions. Governments, then policy targets, are missing costs. Hv. A senator has promoted it in the context of his ability to determine whether or not we are achieving them. Besides, there are many ways to measure goals. I wouldn't last the time to count it. However, a very important part of the traditional policy-making process is a follow-up and implementation process. This is really the follow-up. I agree with what. A senator's lack of access to the project, and we've basically closed the year before. The budget, we'll just stay here and we'll be here all year and summer too. I look forward to getting the annual report of the Minister who's coming to the policy. It hasn't been tested so far. It's a very important thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u5	A respectable president. Next, there's the straitjacket that was always on the floor of the course. I mean, she still is. The budget has the same criteria and changes in financial policy. It does not take into account the weaknesses of government policies and plans, although it certainly takes into account the failure of economic forecasts, so the policy is no longer based on a straitjacket but with regard to a weakness in government policies and plans, it is still in a straitjacket, for if economic forecasts pass, it is still completely in the floor. There's still a straitjacket there. What is missing here is what we talked about in our previous response, a budget, and our priorities are missing. Although economic forecasts actually fail, we have no idea whether each project was carried out or if they met a timetable or any of the reasons that there is far too much flexibility given to the government from the council, from the financial authority to achieve the goals set out in a way too vaguely so that we cannot find out in annual reports whether it is meet the requirements set out from this council. That's what's missing. The range of economic growth is clearly worse than predicted because uncertainty is bound to the fact that it still holds a straitjacket in financial policy compared to the floors established by financial planning.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u6	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's request for the second answer, which is also very good and is basically the key of this and, of course, the point of my speech in terms of a change in financial policy. We may be able to put it all at ease, and it's just right. A senator points out that once we've been on the floor of the policy, it's hard to get out of there. It's hard to unwind the ropes on the straitjacket, and that's even. As a result, more than a few of the legal committees offer a suggestion to extend their leeway. In the long run, it is important that governments look for space, have a curve of policy, and become clear in their provisional goals, and give space, in addition, let's just say it, in the rest of the world, and then when the economic outlooks get worse and the possibility, if it goes there, temporarily to run the state's budget down so that it doesn't need the community to take painful measures, especially against the design of the vital systems we're always planning to cultivate. That's what it's all about. These are some basic systems that we are more or less funded for. 6 out of 10 K. Get well, that's just a fact. The transfer systems take a lot, health issues, education systems. We want to tend to them, but at the same time, we have to make this curve to plan, like, a rough one. A senator rightly points out, stands, and there we are to be a little rigid in our goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u7	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator, president of the budget board, review, and the talk. I'd like to use this opportunity to direct a question to what. A senator with regard to the project and the work done on the final scale of these materials. So I want to ask you why. A member of Parliament: Can you expect more of the future legal committee to submit its changes in a short time and waste at the same time from the Committee without anyone present at the meeting should be able to read the committee's opinion, let alone consider it? In addition, at the same meeting, a two - page letter from the Ministry of Financial Affairs was accompanied by seven documents, packed with small numbers without regard to the conversation. Now I know, Mr. President, what. The chairman is a very powerful numerator, but does he not agree with me that neither of us could discern and understand the information presented at the meeting as a major part taken to the lesser end? Then let me take care of it as a promise from yours. A senator and a chairman of the budget board that this kind of work will not be replaced by the rest of the section and under its control? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u8	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's son's offer to a question about the work and work of the Committee. I may not have made the project a special subject in my speech, but I presented this unusual position in the processing of both issues, financial policies, and financial programs, and all that happens at that time from the introduction of financial programs to the Commission in March. Of course, the uncertainty that becomes experienced at that time, the chicken business, and all that I traced, the economic traumas, makes it necessary to recalculate. All arrangements must be checked on the pay and income gate and we need to rely on the Ministry of the Calculator. We know that although we have two very powerful writers who have worked for us, the fact is that the Commission's review of the changes made in early ideas of measures is a week. A revised financial system with a financial plan will enter the first week of June. The day before, she arrives at a committee we have yet to report. I'll just admit it for what it is. A senator, a respectable president, is, of course, not desirable to have such a narrow time frame for a committee in such an important matter. That's the way it is, but sometimes you have to board your sleeves and work as hard as you can. However, that procedure has been put to the fore. The budget suggests that when they come from the Ministry, the whole committee is released when they appear to the committee, and the time frame was just narrow. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u9	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator who hears that he agrees basically with me in this regard. However, it should be noted that when the recommendations are received from the Ministry, there was evidence that there might be some change in these matters, so we had very little room to go over it. Let's get a little closer to this. Before the clock. 10 This morning, the section was less likely to return an aluminium party where he had, in fact, a group of members. I have considered the above, understood, and understood them at the time of a meeting until 2 o'clock in the night. Then I'd like to ask who. A senator, chairman of the legal committee, whether he believes that a smaller section of the legal committee can provide professional work as required. I'll have that maybe. is it not that he will use himself to see that this situation does not arise again? I think it's very important, Mr. President, this process and this time frame is natural below all the caves. It has to be said at the moment, it's the government's foundation, and to expect you to look into it at this brief period of time and to turn it over to a committee party is quite different. I just want to say that, Mr. President. In spite of this, I would like to make a special statement, highlighting that I thank the chairman of the budgetary committee for the success of a meeting board and good communication.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u10	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Thorning's Þórarinsson and a member of the committee why. It's also a good partnership with the legislature board. Of course, I can't help but agree with what. A senator of all things. It was a very narrow period of time and was put to the end of Congress and pressure to finish the matter. We were a lot at our votes yesterday, and the one standing here was trying to get the message we talked about at a meeting of the Committee that the lesser part was at rest and at some point. I am fully aware that even the passing of time was limited to the majority of things that did not have to respond to other opinions but was making their own opinions. Of course, that always gives us a firm advantage. There is still little sleep on the members of the committees. The legal committee, and I believe that this applies both to more things and less things, but the wish was presented to try to allow some space in the morning. Whether it was more or less, I won't say it. Of course, I can't help but agree with what. A senator at all, it's such a matter that we want to have as much time as possible, and we can give ourselves the most space to erase all numbers, but at some point, we have to get this thing away from us. The Senate is planned today, and we are actually making use of all the time the council is working. It is important that this, in turn, come out as a basis for the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u11	Mr. President. I'd like to make it a subject of my objection to the president of the Board of Justice last night, since he was shocked by me for having discussed publicly a change proposal from the government to the budget. Speaked to the chairman that these suggestions had been trusted. I want it to be here in particular that this is just not true and, in fact, not true, which would have been incredible, Mr. President, if there had been a confidential agreement on the government's transition to a financial program that affects any individual in the country. It may well be that the chairman of a financial committee wanted these to be some kind of secret proposal, for he was going to do it in two days. They were introduced on Friday before Pentecost, and on the third day after Pentecost the plan was due. Perhaps he knew that these adjustments would not be tolerated, but these were, Mr. President, approved proposals of the Iceland government, introduced to the General Fundament Committee, where they requested us to seek them. This is the government's arrangement for making changes and coming here 13 days later, talking about some confidence in such suggestions. There was no confidence in them, and no confidence was broken. No confidentiality was asked for in this matter, and I want to rest. A senator, chairman of the legal committee, retracts these words because I felt hurt to hear them. This adjustment made significant cuts from what had been announced and introduced in the financial program of this same government since March. This was the government's proposal to reduce the planned budget for disability, high school, innovation, environment, development cooperation, hospitals and health care. These were the parties who were supposed to take the biggest impact on the contractions we are facing - I'm sure I'm going to have to get over it - contributioning to the government budget. [[The president calls.]] What I'm always criticizing is the will of this government to reduce the budget of the conversation and in the treatment of the council, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u12	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ágún Ólafur Ágústsson, why. A member of the budget board, and the opportunity to review this. During an interview, where I'm sorry if you're upset. A senator thinks I've gone too far, and I apologized, I didn't say there was evidence on the evidence. I didn't say that. I said, "What?" A senator would have joined the trust of the committee. It turns to trust. It turns to the way I've been working, and it's worked as the president of the rock. The budget is publishing the data to the whole committee when they come in. It may be considered a procedure that the majority of them only get to review the data from their government before presenting it to all the committees. I haven't had that kind of thing worked out, and then you might feel trusted because the case is going to work. There's gonna be a review of the data and I don't know why. To some extent, a senator minimizes work habits. The budget board. That's what I meant when I talked about his becoming a believer to a committee. I'm really sorry if you had any trouble. A senator - absolutely right. A senator said, a respectable president, so to speak, this is not a trust, of course. I'm talking about trust in committees and the work that the Committee is doing, and so far, in good cooperation. I can't tell you anything else about what's going on. paritaprevir Ágúst, the son of Ólafur Ágústsson of that work all along, but that she was only very good. I'm very sorry - this doesn't mean much, but I can just stand here and apologize if I've gone too far with this opinion of respect for the work of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u13	Mr. President. I'll calm down a little later. I accept this apology. All right, I agree with the chairman of the budget board, a good spirit has been in the committee, and a good cooperation, and I think of a chairman of the Board of Directors, to come up and accept this apology and explanation. Still, I wondered, and I know that time is often addressed to the committee, whether we need to rethink the work force. Of course, we received some comments that when changing proposals come, whether they are from the government and then from a financial committee, whether the stakeholders should be given no greater opportunity to study these suggestions. The Generous Community, Development and the labor movement, the activities organization, and others have identified this. We get some paper from the government, which often isn't great, which we have to fix and take into account the comments we get. I wondered if we wouldn't have to get out of it for a second. To illustrate: This is where government expenses were to be reduced. If we take expenses outside the framework of parentheses, as the government itself does in its own tables, the cost would be reduced by 43 billion. The cost of discussions was to be reduced by about 8 billion. Of course, the armsist organisations, and in opposition to it, would be strange, but it was strange that such discussions were not opened up more as if the Organization, Developmental, and other members had no further opportunity to express their opinion precisely, based on the evidence presented to the committee. That's a lot of news. Of course, it is especially enjoyable that a financial committee withdraws this massive cuts of about 15 billion. There was now a fight, Mr. President, when the beating as microchip, high school, hospitals, etc. Turned to 15 billion dollars. lower than it was. Nevertheless, it remains that much of the changes made by the Committee are very bad and insane, and we fight against them, but we can celebrate what is done well, and that's what I'm doing here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u14	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Ágústsson But I'd love to apologize because I think it's a lot, even though there's been some misunderstanding, and I've apologized if I've gone too far. That a good man of lying is quite serious, and I felt hurt at the same time, and I was hurt like a dog. A senator took his grasp of my words I have apologized for. Regarding the procedure, there has been a way of getting economists for committees. We certainly take into account reports when we are winning the case on the committee, and this has not been done in reassigning a guardian to give specific comments about the changes that are based to some extent on the judges'comments that are taken into account. However, I think it is just a matter of reflection when the changes are as big as they are talking about the changed economic leaders and in the time of a very fast swing, and when they have been taken into account and suggest that some adjustment eventually occurs from the first proposal and then as they look from the greater part, whether they need to give some time to it and get an opinion of it specifically. There would be a new arrangement from the tradition of all committees, but I think it is a thought - provoking subject. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u15	Mr. President. I recommend committee party 1 less part of the financial committee, one that targets the adjustment of financial policy and the other a proposal for a resolution of the budget. I'd like to first mention that, first of all, we are going through these changes in government financial policy, and in itself, it's just that there's a serious lawsuit against the government's economy. It is a course that would last five years but that would last more than one year. The independent financial council as the highest. The secretary of finance has himself spoken of weaknesses in economic management and the lack of fine works. Indeed, the union agrees with that statement and considers the economy under the Independence Party to be fully experienced and, in fact, costly for an ordinary home and company in the country. In addition, Mr. President, there was a lot of what is being dealt with here with completely predictable. We told last year from this symposium, with President's permission, about the policy now being changed: It is clear that the financial policy of the government of Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, gets a complete drop rate from almost all stakeholders that have discussed it. The financial policy is said to be a threat to stability, unrealistic, irresponsible, indiscriminate, vague, unsustainable, inexplicable, indiscriminate, lipophilic, and unfaithful. That's what they said about policy last year. And now these changes are being made to respond to what we said needed to be listened to at the time of the policy. Of course not! The industrial organization said, with permission of the president: No country in OECD has ever gone through a similar swing in the actual rates of pay and prices, and the Icelandic United States over the past 15 years, but the real success of the crown is a measure of the development of regional competitiveness against foreign countries. Thus, no industrial state has ever offered its companies such a level of instability in a competitive position at this time. That's what industry's organization says. The public body said in its review: ▪... critical whether financial policy presented here will support economic and social stability in the coming years because of its limitations. And: ▪ The mechanism to meet the baseline policy on sustainability, security, stability, stability, stability and transparency is not defined. Business advice says about policy last year: The economic forecast on which financial policy is based is very optimistic and assumes for an unprecedented economy. It is hard to build the foundation of public funds on such a bright stage and more responsible it would be to have lived beneath it. In fact, industrial organizations went so far as to conclude that both economic and economic forecasts were unrealistic and unrealistic. A representative of the financial organisation called policy to a meeting of the financial committee a dream vision. That's what they said about policy last year. I'm opening this up, considering that what we're going through here was perfectly predictable, but the government just decided not to listen to these stakeholders, whether they were the professional or the labor side. It may well be that the government does not want to listen to the government's opposition in this room, but why not listen to the stakeholders of Icelandic employment that so clearly pointed out, as we have seen, the flaws of the course proposed by the minister last year? In fact, 80 comments were made to finance last year's financial conferences and gave suggestions on how to deal with it. Thus, it cannot be said that nothing was surprising and that the government groups, in effect, sailed to bed consciously to death. That is why we are faced with the prospect of changing a course that would last five years but that would last one year. This is a concern for all of us, wherever we stand in politics. We are to listen to specialists, stakeholders, and to each other. We're not supposed to be so trapped in the pits, tied up in the party hole that it keeps us from seeing. This policy, financial policy, was based on a continuous growth rate for 13 ◯14 years, which has hardly ever occurred in the history of Iceland. Why should this happen now? That's what we said last year. How can you imagine that there will be a continuous economic growth for 13 in 13 to 14 years? It's fine just to look at the practicality. In fact, I think the Bible says there are seven good years and seven domestics. That's how the economic mood is, especially with the pink elephant, which exaggerates all swings and, in fact, is the source of the swing, not the good result of the swing, as some have talked about, it exaggerates, and generates the swing. Now the economic growth is over, just as we said one year ago. A contraction has begun. The land production is contracting. Actually, we're talking about the biggest reversal in the economy for less than 30 years, except for the collapse. The fluctuation is about 100 billion years. To the worse and to the worse the benefit of the government is about 40 billion a year, and each year about 40,446 billion for the next five years if we do not react, totally unchanged. To add this number into a context, to show how much blow this is, how much the reversal is, you could disable a dollar against a dollar of microchip three times for this amount. We could double all the money Iceland decides to go to college. This reversal can be attributed to the government, including the government. Because of poor management, and because she did not listen to the warnings of many stakeholders. I realize many things in the environment aren't the government's fault, it's not her fault that here's a fluke, but there's a lot of the government's fault. If things are going well, it will not take long for the government to thank itself. Should she not, then, take some responsibility when it is difficult to do so? It works both ways, Mr. President. Even though I'm talking about the big lines and dealing with finance policy instead of a financial agenda, it's going to follow, holding these two of them, of course. I'll talk about it later. It is clear that in the contractions I describe here, microchips, schools, hospitals, health care, environment, innovations and development contracts, etc. ... intheconsistencies of the council. That's what I've been criticizing. Why do we need to approach these individuals, these institutions, to meet the decline? Because of course we have to meet her in some way, and I will review how we can do this differently. We do not have to reduce the high school budget by over a billion total over five years, in line with the budget set in March. We do not have to lower the budget for disability over 4.5 billion combined for the next five years, in view of the contribution of the financial programme of this same government. We don't have to do that, Mr. President. The policy is not merely an exposé of government policy; it also needs to be realistic. It has been pointed out that not one of the baseline laws on government finance, but financial advisers and reports have pointed out that smooth landings are often an exception rather than a rule in the modern economy. I'm worried that the basis for this course is still too optimistic. Let's take a look at them. I know the Minister has told me that he needs to follow the National Standards of Iceland, but according to Article 8. He can look to other fortunes by the law. It is a pleasure to note that more of the budget committees add to the so - called uncertainty gap, that the basis for financial policy may be just too optimistic. There may be more predictions than the law of the Economic Standards. Let us look at the basics. It's no fun to be a Kingdom publisher of more dire times, but I'm afraid that the downtrodden will be more and deeper than this one's assumed to be. Why do I say that? Because the premise is so weak. Criteria one: The Icelandic crown's gang is expected to remain virtually unchanged for the next five years. In what world is it going to happen when we have one of the most swinging currency in all the OECD states? The crown's gang is not going to stay the same for the next five years. The two premise: Priceitis must be similar to what had been predicted. Unfortunately, this is not about to happen, so we can only see that the cent's gang has dropped by 13% in one year. What does that mean? Everything's going to go up. We're moving in so much. We import goods we use here because we certainly don't produce everything. It is a principle that if 123/413% fall on the gang, a third boat will be involved in the inflation at some time. It hasn't happened, but it's what I'm worried about, that there's a drop in luck. A rising inflation - and what happens when inflation rises? This calls for using your means of growth and making money more expensive. All of this goes hand in hand, and we always get back to the crown, which is such a terrible currency to an Icelandic nation. Proposition three: Economic growth should be received very quickly, i.e. growth in national production. I'm also kind of pessimistic that it's about to happen. Four: Unemployment according to the projection and policy criteria, little change from previous forecasts should be done, only to increase, but we see that only in March 1,600 people were out of work. This means that the entire work market in Iceland would lose its job on one board. I fear that unemployment will be more than expected here. Each percentage of unemployment is costly, except for the human tragedy involved, but each percentage rate is 6.5 billion, Mr. President. We can also see that not all agreements have been closed, but the effects of the so - called biographies contracts on the remuneration scale are only 0.9% increase by 2020. Interestingly, the small impact of the biographies on the budget presented a month before the contracts were made. Both the Organization and financial advisers specifically stated that these collective agreements had little to do with a plan that had already been introduced. Project five: Oil prices should not change for the next five years. Of course, that will not happen. Of course, I know it's hard to predict many of these things, but that's what the fortune - tellers are, we're not supposed to mix up plans and forecasts. It may be some plan that inflation will not get out of control and unemployment will become low, but we need realistic predictions. On it we build our course. In fact, analysts and financial advisers believe that the contractions may be more and more long lasting than national forecastings are expected. I'm a bit of a pessimist, I think the story shows that we're supposed to be. There are not many good news ahead, unfortunately, Mr. President, if you look at the big lines. Of course, we hope for the best. Mr. President. I'm saying that it's perfectly clear that the state's income stocks - and we've been saying this for a long time in the United States, and we've been very loyal to it; I've torn myself up about taxes in this hall, and I'm willing to do it again - in recent years I've been sick. This reduces the maintenance of the state's budget and greatly reduces the scope for needed welfare benefits. We need to make money to finance our well - being, our future, our school system, etc. We are to place the burdens on people who have spread banks. There's a wide width in this community. I'm not talking about an increase in taxes between normal people and normal companies, but here's the opportunity to make money without pressing too much down cycle to protect exactly the welfare and education systems. It can be done. I've wondered and only come back to see if there's any special reason for this government to have the prize of hunting, a price available to one of the world's best fishing grounds, as high as the tobacco tax. I've said that in this room before. Tobacco's pay is a price we put on cigarettes as an understatement. 8◯9% of the nation smokes. Is there really any reason to have the lowest capital income tax in all the states? Is there really a reason to put a decrease in the bank tax? It's still there. I know the fall was postponed for a year, but this is 8 billion that the state could take advantage of during a recession period, Mr. President. And why can't we take a deeper discussion on big property taxes, money taxes, or whatever people would like to call it at the same time that there's a considerable amount of property in Iceland? At the same time, at 1% of the richest Icelanders, more pure property than 80%. In the past, financial advisers have called attention to the fact that these income stocks, taxes, have been weakened in recent years. In the United States, we have repeatedly spoken for economic stability. Of course we don't tax ourselves out of this crisis. I'm not talking about it. I'm sorry that the senators will come up in a pit like they've done and talk about me taxing until I'm dead. I'm not talking about it. I'm talking about raising resource costs, yeah, I'm talking about raising the capital tax, yeah, that's the best guessin' earners. I'm talking about postponing a bank tax reduction and I'm talking about a fortune tax. It's not a tax on ordinary people. There is no ordinary people who pay money taxes, the highest. Minister, there's a very narrow group that pays a fortune tax. A couple would need 120 million dollars on the Internet. The Continental ideas are much shorter in this regard. Even so, there are 200 million people who have 200 million in clean property that can do more. Our fiscal tax - just 2% of our families in the country paid capital taxes for the stock market. We have a vacation target for capital gain tax, and it clears out the majority of those who receive some capital income so that we can power the most people to finance what we all say they agree on, at least in the end of the election, Mr. President. This is just what we need to talk about, and we need to discuss it the next time, because this is a crisis. Now this government is going to be difficult for the next few years, because money's over, and it's gonna be a big political test. Who will take the punch? Who will accept greater burdens? Don't you think it's all right that it's the big one instead of a cripple? Don't you think it's all right to have capital owners instead of students? Is it not big - property people, rather than patients, or those who just use the welfare services we have and are mostly proud of, if not all of them? Now in this room, the decisions are first difficult. I just wanted to jump into the financial program. I've been cynical about it and I'm not going to repeat it but in part. I'll have the cutting motion between discussions afterwards, but I've also heard in the discussion that the government is adding expenses to all legalities. I'm not talking about the changes or anything like that. There's nothing right. Of 35 topic areas - here, senators can see all this red here, they're a subject field that gets less money in five years than right now, less money 2024 than 2020. It's all the red ones. These are 17 points of the 35th, the half. It's not true what I've heard that we're pushing every aspect of our lives. Of course, there is an increase in some areas. Of course I know. It's just a package seven, a tablet from the highest. Minister. That's where we're putting less money if we compare the 2020'2024. This is very clear. Consider just a few examples. We'll put less in the cops in five years than we do now. After five years, we'll put less on transportation than we do now. We'll put less money in culture, art, sports and youth work 2024 and 2020. We sort of put the same number in high school. I didn't get tired of flaunting it, you remember, I know high school was shorter, I didn't miss it, but the shorts were supposed to go on. They were to stay, and education was also to be done. There is no education when the same figure goes to high school as a whole in 2020 and 2024. It's just keeping the shorts, or what we want to call them. Here's an interesting point: We are putting less in nursing homes 2024 than 2020, despite the need and aging of the people. We're putting less in housing in five years than we're now. There are also other classes here. These are 17 different areas of 35, so it's not right to say, "Yes, we're shooting in all things, we're just spitting a little less in than we planned. This is clear. Let's take some points I have here. I'm gonna go a little fast. The house support is down by 13% for the next five years. No. 2, The new creation totals a 3.2 billion reduction over the next five years from the earlier proposal that financial programs had been expected. To be clear, here is a financial program in March. During the council, it is decided to lower, detract, cut down the planned amount of money for these classes. The budget has been cut off, i.e. ... underlaws. When funding come, we slow down some things. They're cutting down the conversation, asking the council to lower the figures as high as possible. A minister wanted to join the seminars two and a half months ago. That's what I'm so cynical about. I know men have lost their minds over the word cuts. I'm not going to get over it. I'm going to underline it. I've never mentioned that there are compensations to lower. I never said that. I've been incredibly accurate in every detail, every interview, and every Facebook bar I've ever said about it. There is a decline in budgetary contributions. There's no way to refute this, Madam President. Regarding innovation, it is being added only to the cut or the decline, or whatever the person wants to call it. Third, environmental issues are today. They are to be reduced to their contribution by 1 billion combined for the next five years. Yes, Minister - Okay, I'm talking about the adjustment to your plan since March. [[The money's going up.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u16	The money's going up.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u17	You're supposed to, chief. Minister, to lower what you wanted to put in the environment two and a half months ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u18	They rise by 24% in real value.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u19	Yeah, okay, all right, but you guys are getting together... [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u20	The Senator has become.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u21	I couldn't be any clearer in the past. But all right, I'm talking on the other hand about the government's change proposals, which were terrible and then the changing proposals of the committee, which were better - but sometimes only worse. The budget is now being reduced to these classes of issues from the schedule two and a half months ago. During the next five years, a total of 1.2 billion lower amounts of money will be provided according to a financial plan provided in March. I'm always talking about it, so you can't move the discussion anywhere else. College level, that's interesting. There's an attractive education program for the Minister there. If we look at the university - and I encourage senators to look back on it in the financial process. As noted in the budget of the budget, the college level without any future LIN will receive a similar amount of 2024 and 2019. This is a little interesting. If we're going outside, which is in the program, I'm not making this thing if people think it, I'm not making anything here, if I'm taking LIN away, the university will get a lot of the same money now as 2024. This surprised me a little bit. Does the whole increase go to LIN? It may well be, but I thought this was supposed to be going to be a really good time at college. The age of education and art, youth, and sports are reduced by 7.6%. This is one of those red chemical fields I used to know. The law and justice are down, one of the red matter areas. Hospital service goes up, so it can be now. There are, of course, some things that go up, I'm not saying that nothing goes up. The hospital service, on the other hand, is asked to obtain less money than she anticipated in the March issue of the programme. There are about 2 billion items, and this has said that investments are being delayed. Well, if that's the case, but I still remind myself that last financial plan, from last year onward, the Land Hospital thought it needed 87 billion. I think it surprised us all on the committee a little bit. The landlord, in his review, said that it would require an additional 87 billion in total to 223 in financial planning last year. Of course, I know there is a great need, and she may never be there. Only about the microchip. In the coming years, financial contributions are now reduced by 4.5 billion from what had been introduced when a financial plan was first submitted. That's political news. There's a down payment on the planned amount. The language has grown, I realize that, I know how to read the charts, but you're cutting down the amount of money you're going to need to make a living. This is one of the largest numbers when we consider one of the changes made by the government and the other by the Committee. And what did the chairman of the Corporate Community say? She wrote like this, Madam President, about the government's changing proposals: How can you do this? Here is where the largest and poorest community groups are allowed to take on even greater reductions. It is unacceptable that poor and disabled people have yet to take on the heavyest blow. That is what an UN president says, for she realizes that if the group of painters were to receive 4.5 billion more two and a half months ago, it is important. It's very peculiar, as I've heard, including. From the chairman of the budget board, to say that the poor will feel nothing of this. No one can feel the cutting motion between discussions because we're growing anyway. If it had been decided, Madam President, that micromasks should get 4.5 billion more two months ago, and it is taken away now during the council, why do people think that a cripple cannot feel it? 4.5 billion is a lot of money. There's been a little talk about the fact that it doesn't matter, it's a general increase anyway. That's what matters. Two and a half months ago, these classes were ready to set 4.5 billion dollars. more for disability. And it's no longer the case because they need to respond to the contractions of the economy. I wonder why we're here, Madam President. The nurse drops the next five years, as I could before, one of the red topic areas, by 3.3%. [[Taken out for: Down?]] Yeah, dropping. These are tables from you, Madam President, and look at page seven. I also want to fly one here because the health minister has talked about opening up a 550 new room. It's a good thing, because we celebrate, but it's been said to the budget that it's not financed for two years. Are these spaces to be closed in two years? We're talking about a five-year financial programme, so this is where we need to respond. This government has almost disappeared. I began to recall that the current budget is expected to be less in interest of interest, but it was planned last year, from 3 billion or something. Transport is dropping. If we do this, we'll have an increase in transport and then it's down. This will reduce the next five years if we compare the trend to 2024 and 2020, by 17%. Interestingly, in the process of making changes, there are 3 billion dollars. reduction from what the plan originally expected. The developing teamwork, a field where we did nothing outstanding at first, is to reduce the treatment of the Parliament by 1.8 billion for the next five years. I only came in for the IRS earlier. Then I'm not going to wear it again. I'd like to mention two other points to my criticism. I've crossed the criteria. It is interesting to look at the mix, since it slightly lowers as a percentage of national production. This may surprise someone. She's dropping slightly for the next five years according to budget. I know national production is growing at the same time, but as a percentage of national production, it is essentially a substitute. It lowers a small amount in spite of large declarations of the increased consumption of public, public infrastructure, and the aging of the people, the consumption of the government. Madam President. Ten times it is found in the review of the budget of the government's budget. It tells a story when it comes to criticism of this independent body appointed by the minister himself. In particular, financial advisers have warned of the State's straitjackets, and they have seen their success in this regard. I'm going to do some special things. I had only gone through the chicken business and increased unemployment. I had only left it earlier, and I think it is surprising to say that in general the rates of living agreements have virtually no effect on new national interests, I only mentioned this earlier, and virtually no impact on the contribution of a financial program since March. It tells its own story about the content of these contracts. The impact of biographies is virtually no price paid by the Habitat, as well as a history of them. The late bank estimates that the addition to tax change and child benefits from the contracts will be only 3 billion from what had been introduced in the plan prior to the biographies. When it comes to the pay of public employees - the collective agreements have to be completed - this document is expected only in which we are due later this afternoon to increase the pay of public employees by only 0.5% over the price of 2020 servant22024. It will be interesting to see if this will be the case with government contracts. As a result of this, the annual purchase development of government workers over 0.5% during the period that is far below the historical average is expected to be met by measures. What happens when government agencies have something to do with it? Then public service must be restricted primarily or carried out some kind of economic activity. Of course, I know there are some places to be arranged, but this can be very painful, Madam President. It's only about the economy. I only brought it into the past, and I want to state that although this government may not want to listen to me, it should be a matter of paying attention to financial matters. In the past, the phenomenon has criticized the weakening of this income gate, thus reducing the maintenance of public funds. Reservation is not merely cutting down as some right men think. It is also possible to arrive with increasing income, as I had previously been able to do. I have a measure of concern about the economic management shown in this financial program, that there is a reduction in the number of years, and that some taxes, in particular the taxes of the wealthy and the bank, are to be reduced, and then there have been increased expenses in some areas, even though investments in other areas have been neglected. To reduce certain taxes and to increase public expenses in some places, but not there, would be a problem. I've often said, of course, that we don't do everything for everyone. But it's like there's a little bit of reason missing in the economy, and I think we're just a little bit of a waste of it. I'm worried that this bad economy of the Independence Party will increase property balance. I know there's quite a balance in the income here, but property balance is quite a factor. I think this economy will lead to growth, and then it will end so that the average population is infected with this policy. It's always the public who pays for it. I've had some words with the highest. Secretary of the budget of a disaster that's a terrible economy. With a gang drop in value of the currency, we are shifting money from normal companies and people to the exports, the fishing road, or the tourism. It is an enormous transfer of funds with a gang fold, apart from the mismanagement of self - instability. I've always disagreed with the person who talks about the advantage of the crown that it moves in the direction of the economy. It makes the economy, and it takes money from people to certain exports in the country when it falls. I've held on for a long time, and I think a lot of people do, that in the current downturn we or the dust of Keynes' theories about the role of the government in fluctuation. Now that the demand contracts with private partners, we should spit in some areas. It will be harder, less money in the wallet, however, it may be wise to economically increase public investments and infrastructure and even service, for a long time, to pay under such circumstances, Madam President. Even business ventures, which may be in general just right, at least To me, in his review of this plan, he says, on permission of the president: ▪ It would be unfortunate and would deepen the decline rate to take on significant maintenance measures now to achieve the rest of the year and even the next year in accordance with financial policy. I think the committee and the other part are responding partly. If I were to become a member of a team, I'd have to repeat myself, but as you can see in my committee list, there's a wide range of child reforms, interest improvements, elderly ones, and disability, and the least of these is education. I've found a lot of holes in this so-called education. Finally, I want to apply our suggestions and the tax issues. I know it's always so exciting for right men to ask me about taxes because they seem so afraid of taxes, as if they don't know that taxes are paying their wages and all their own campaign options. The union will make adjustments to this financial program, and we will do so in two ways. We invest in the future, and we protect the welfare. How do we do this? We're going to double the budget that goes on climate level is compared to the government's plan of action. We are going to emphasize green investments and the structure of environmentally friendly infrastructure. This is our biggest adjustment now. We are not trying to contribute a well-formed financial program, but these are critical points that we want to draw up in this hall with a financial adjustment proposal, putting more money on climate, the subject field under which climate is concerned. Number two and three: We want to put extra money on college and college. We want to reroute a planned reduction of the government's budget on budgetary budgets according to a financial programme. We want to do the same with innovation, research, and knowledge articles, and we also want to add to our housing support, not to reduce it for the next five years, as it happened. He's turning down the nickels. He's down at 7 again. We want to invest in the future in this regard. Second, we have the heading: Protect the welfare. Of course, we would like to withdraw this 4.5 billion dollars. five years compared to the March edition. We'd like to double what the government proposes to make of the 4 billion, because these 4 billion are just enough for about one-third of the release of a cent against a crown. We took some steps in this regard this week. We want to put money on the elderly and on child support, but we also want it, that's a small adjustment, to place extra money on the birth plate, with emphasis on increasing birth strength. It may be forgotten during the discussion, but birth strength runs out to parents who are out of work and in school. It's 75,000 a month or maybe 100,000 a month, so we want to try to get it in the discussion that this is a group that needs special attention. Then we want to put money in hospital care and health care. These are the 23 billion, no less, which we want to put at this point that we believe is right, especially in the light of the economy. These are mostly investments, but we're also stopping into the holes and protecting the groups that shouldn't be taking the biggest punch in their contractions. We also have ideas about how we're going to finance this. We do not have to agree with the government's transition proposal to reduce the budget between debates to high school, disability, hospitals, environment, innovation and development cooperation. We can go another way by earning money. These are things I came in the past. It's the resource fees, the fishing licenses. The fishing costs have become less than 1% of the government's income. This is the nation's primary resource, which is legalized by the people, the state as owner or head of the owners, the nation owns it, gets less than 1% of their total revenues of fishing expenditures. I'm sorry to give up all the publicity that we're gonna kill some small make-up. That's what all the talks are about as soon as I open my mouth about fishing costs: Well, is he going to kill the little ones out in the country? No, I'm not gonna kill the little thing out in the country. Here are some very powerful fishing companies, which I'm proud of and content with which I can do more. That's what I'm talking about. I like a powerful fishing road. No surprise for anyone in this room. I'm happy when the fishing industry works well, but I think it's only fair that it contributes in the light of its use of the country's common resource. This is no complicated thing, but I want him to prosper and grow, and to yield goods to his owners; but the owner of the resource, the people, must not remain. I've mentioned the capital tax here, but by raising it by 2 percent it would rise by 3 billion. Although we would, we would still have the lowest capital income tax of all the North countries. We suggest that the carbon rate increases, but all the governments in the world, and of course this government, too, has taken several steps in bringing in pollution taxes. Pollution in Iceland is way too cheap. We are to use financial incentives to combat disaster and climate change. That's the way. Let us take advantage of the laws of economics and business in our fight against pollution and disaster. That's the way. Well, let's think of a Cap and a Trade, a passable release system. Let's use some contaminant taxes. In that light, they are the only acceptable taxes, so to speak. Other suggestions, as mentioned, Mr. President. I see my time is running out, but I think that this is about a lot of wrong things, so to speak, and we're letting this down cycle and recession come down in the least of the groups that should, Mrs. President, and it makes us feel that we in the United States are at the worst when it comes to both the budget and the changes we're supposed to accept here later today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u22	The president would like to state that we had this discussion, which included a single financial debate, and economicism was cleared up by agreement and is therefore 45 minutes for the leading members of the Committee. At the same time, the answers were made, and the answers are two minutes in each traffic, even though more than two speak up. However, it is understood that this is not true of two members of the same body. Take two minutes, then, in the previous discussion, and one minute in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u23	A respectable president. It's kind of a shame that you don't have much time to say right now because there are a lot of things to tell about this story. First, of course, it is preoccupied that financial plans for the next year are a major cutoff to the various areas in which it is handled in reverse. However, there is a reduction in emissions. This committee magazine repeatedly mentions making contributions to the various kinds of subjects that are about to lower when used in the reverse. We are proud of the proposals now available to the council after Congress because we are responsible and determined to use the economic situation to support the construction of society. This is true in all aspects of education, education, transportation, health care, etc. This suggests that the standard in the economy is a sentence against the government's economy and particularly the Independence Party. Where are the signs that everything went wrong? Are they in the prenup? Are they in the interest phase, in the inflation, in the 400 billion leftovers of the state from 2013 or in the new budgets of state that have been best seen in the republic? Where's the signal, boy? Senator? This was different in a clue recently described by Professor Gylfi Zoëgi, who said that the economic responses were just like recorded from a textbook. The contribution of the United States to this situation is a major concern that there has been too much increase in expenses over the past few years. What, then, is suggested? Yes, they are to be increased by 23 billion in the coming years, and they are to be funded with twenty - three billion new incomes. During the planned period, the Conspiracy contributes to 115 billion new taxes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u24	Madam President. That was an amazing statement. V.E.G. Minister will come and talk about only playing the game in happiness and having nothing wrong with this economy. We're going through the biggest reversal of the economy for 30 years, apart from the collapse. The product is reducing by 100 billion, and only by the government is 40 billion, not just 2019, but over the years. The production of land is falling for the first time since 2010, and the rotation has been less pronounced for 30 years. Economic Councils - not Ministers - give special consideration to weaknesses in economic management and the lack of quality quality. What responsibility is that, Madam President? It's this man's responsibility, chief. Secretary of the budget, weakness in economy, and lack of quality work. What we're so against in the United States is why we have to hit the biggest blows on those that should least be hit. Therefore, we here recommend adjustments that go contrary to what you suggest by reducing financial contributions between discussions, that should be crystal clear. Like I say, I'm the best. Minister to read his own data. In 17 areas of 35, half of them, government funds are less suggested in 2024 than 2020. You can't say that there's an expansion in all areas. It's just not true, Madam President, except for the cutting-off motions between conversations that make things worse. I give myself a hearing that everything is going on here, no cuts, no recesses between discussions or anything, because that's just not right, Madam President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u25	A respectable president. Of course, the way things are cut out of context is amazing. For example, consider culture and art. When it is claimed that contributions are being drawn in this area, it is necessary to examine any single business that is running out during the planned period. You have to take them into account. When you look at the end of the plan period and point out: See here in 2024, smaller amounts of money are marked on a set subject than next year. This is outrageous! At that time, though, they ignore the fact that there are 25 billion unpublished in just one piece of space. We have 25 billion complete, which, at the end of the 2024 C.E., will spread to the topic range according to the emphasis that will then take place. This is just one example of the kind of error involved in this case. Hv. A senator will be informed of the situation of disability. Of course, it must be kept in mind that when we are looking ahead for years and marking money into that topic area, we have largely predicted sizes, e.g. about bioenergy recruitment. In the treatment of this matter in the council, we have been discussing the need to deal with an abnormal increase in disability in recent years. If it does appear in the topic field - but nowhere in the absolute calculation into the future is it expected that it will be done on disability rights. That's why. A senator is moving into the Senate Hall. This is why in many cases the calculated sizes will depend on a number of uncertainty factors to be considered. Overall, there is a 36% increase in the schedule period. Looking forward to the beginning of this terms until the end of the strategy period, there is a 36% increase in the quality of housing, social and insurance issues that are almost 30%. [[The president calls.]] These are the figures that tell the correct story.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u26	Madam President. I feel like I'm stuck in some virtual or Groundhog Day. People are talking about other things when they try to answer me. What I've said has not been driven. I've lost what I've heard members of the government say, "It's not an expansion in all things. I've heard it more than once. The red matter field is about to go down. Okay, it may well be that a minister can explain specific areas. Okay, then I'll just ask the Minister to do it sometime. But when I review this table that comes from the Minister, I see that total expenses for a very large number of causes are falling apart. Not at all, I know, the highest. Secretary of the budget, that more money has been put for disability. I know it's true. I haven't said anything else.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u27	Why?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u28	No, listen to the talk sometime. What I'm saying is that you're making a political decision to reduce the amount of money you have planned to run out of conversation. You were going to have 8 billion first. So much for you, and now it's 4.5 billion, in 10 days. Now the minister says it's so hard to estimate. Of course, it was your political decision to cut down discussions with microbubbles to 4.5 billion instead of 8, just as it may be a political decision for you to leave this figure at 0. The Independence Party has promised to decommission a dollar across the mine. It is not as if they needed an assignment to get that money into. With regard to culture, high school, etc. these numbers are just very clear. You're shrinking interest, you can call it anything, you're just, no. 1st to reduce planned funds to key elements, and No. 2 Are you also lowering the total number at 17 points of 35. This isn't a good paper you can brag about. It's a bad paper that doesn't have to be like this if you'd ever listen to someone other than yourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u29	President wants less of it. Senators are required to be alert to comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u30	Madam President. Feelings of sadness and gloom somehow catch your mind as you sit under a talk. Senator. I can see why. A senator decided to betray the trust of his members in a financial committee and to use information for political purposes, to raise fear in those to whom it is least necessary - in the elderly and in the micropliable. This is not to be proud of and at times violent. A senator claims he didn't imply that there's some bloody surgery here, I just want to point out why. A senator of the way he wrote on his facebook yesterday what he says: The difference is 15 billion less cuts as micromasks, hospitals, high schools, etc. - Everything here is done to arouse fear and worry in the public, and especially in the minds of the people. A member of the council here is eager to say that he has the most concern. It is not grand, all to bring down political cones, all to suggest that what is being done is contrary to what is really happening. There's an enormous increase in the welfare expenses of the state. This is not a cut, but it may be true that the increase in expenses is not as high as expected. How should we respond wisely when income is combined?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u31	Madam President. I've rarely heard such nonsense from a couple of senators when he comes up against this child. Here's what we're talking about. A senator for whom I have betrayed some confidence in the changes made by the government that were presented to a meeting of the legal committee and the chairman of the legal committee has said that there was no confidentiality - that I cannot speak of them? Do you want us to take the sound of this room, too, while we're talking about it? Wants to play. Is that true of a senator? Why don't we talk about it when the government does. A senator proposes a proposal to reduce the national expenditure of 43 billion? Why don't we talk about it? Was I going to the right of a government? Is that supposed to be some kind of secret proposal we weren't supposed to be discussing? They suspect a person in view of the fact that we were to have two meetings to resolve these suggestions. Happily, I spoke about these suggestions. Of course, we will discuss the changes made by the government, which are like those made on our table. This is the politics of the government. Is confidential about the evil proposals of the government? In what kind of world would you like to crash? A senator lives? It is perfectly normal for us to look at the government's changing proposals. Regarding the cutoff - the cutoff between discussions. [[The cut?]] You don't have the numbers. [[Up front.]] Yeah, it's cut. I don't know how many times I'm supposed to say it. You don't have the numbers, you're not increasing them, you're lowering them, you're putting them together, you're cutting them down.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u32	Surge?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u33	All right, let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u34	Surge?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u35	It's a cut-off. [[The president calls.]] It's a cut-off.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u36	A senator has become.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u37	This is not becoming clearer, and the most devastating blow is being done by farmers, hospitals, and schools.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u38	The blow?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u39	The decision between discussions, yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u40	President wants less of it. Councilmen say that the senator who stands in the pit is the senator who has been here at any time in this hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u41	Madam President. Now that it is -- or I thought it would be like - that when we work on committees to make specific suggestions, we would do it with confidence that we could get some results and discuss them without abusing them for political purposes - to arouse fear among the commons with false claims about what goes on in the work of a financial committee or above the heads of any other committee. It's a low-level political bitch, and it can't go anywhere. Not a senator. He engages in a petty political bitch, just as he engages in a petty political bitch when he quotes the fact that the more part is meant to take note of stakeholders, but does not do it himself when professional interests and organizations stress that taxes should not be raised under current circumstances. Here we go. A senator, does not listen to stakeholders, and contributes to an increase of 115 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u42	Madam President. I just disagree that we are not supposed to discuss these changes in the government. First of all, there was no confidential talk about them. It would have been unnatural if someone had confided in them. This was announced Friday morning. Hv. A senator is not even a member of the committee. On Friday before Pentecost, the government's declaration of a change in budget was made. Then comes the whitesu, which is a long weekend. Then the commission was planned to settle the matter on Tuesday. How do people really think of being reasonable - let's put that political bitch aside - that we shouldn't have discussed these suggestions? They were to be driven through the committee at the next meeting. Of course, we had to discuss these suggestions, and as far as I know, these suggestions were quite surprising to many directors. These are suggestions from the Iceland government on how to change our financial plans. It is perfectly normal for them to be discussed, and even published. Secretary of finance on their Facebook development in the case of disability. [[The president calls.]] He published how desperate funds, according to an older plan and a new plan, looked, which was exactly the basis for the criticism I took that weekend, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u43	V.E.G. President. I want to ask you why. Ólafur An Ágúst, the Ágústsson of Augús. After my talk, we answered, to some extent, when we first answered a talk. A senator has acted as I was about to cross. I'm thinking of therapy. I think it matters a lot in a discussion of economic matters that we use terms correctly, and I thought about understanding the terms of recession, economic growth, sustainable state affairs, cuts and growth. I'm pretty sure that's what I'm doing. A senator has an understanding of these terms. The question is, Is it conscious of the need to use logical reasoning in an extremely delicate way? It's serious whether it's politics or not. Hv. In his speech, a senator said that the impact of biographer contracts has very little effect on a financial programme, so I just want to tell you that in a more significant category of committees, there are 80 billion people, and perhaps it highlights the high level of predestination in this matter on the part of the highest level. Governments and so on, where there is a child reform and an additional tax arrangement from the current programme.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u44	Madam President. I don't know what to say about terms. I wondered, " If the government had made some adjustments in its proposals to make things worse in the March issue, wouldn't it have said, " We're increasing to these classes? ' I'm sure the government would have said that if evolution had been that way. When I pulled this thing up and started discussing it--I wrote a status about this on Facebook--I made nine times, I'm not joking, that I was comparing the financial program as it is presented here in March to the government's changing proposals and then there was a change in the Commission's proposal. That's where this reduction is. It's getting smaller, and I can't really say it any more or more. I encourage senators to try to think this over the other way. If you'd been raising money for disability, what would you have said? If so, you would be saying that during the coming of the council, the funds to these and these parties are being increased. Okay, let's not argue more about these changes if you don't want to, but I'm very clear on this. I've never been raising any fear in people. I'm a businessman in the government's transition, that's my crime. I'm not creating any fear, and I've never spoken of any benefits to be made here. I never said that. Hv. A senator has repeatedly said: "You can't say that benefits are down. " I've never said that. I've been careful because words matter. I have been extremely careful when I criticize these adjustments that I disagree with, and I don't feel that I'm reasonable or that I'm not righteous. I can say that if you're in a position of government, then what? Senators, would you say exactly what I say? I have also criticized and said that it is not right to say that spending is growing in all areas. It's just not right, which we'll see if we look at this table that I'm always peeling on page 7 and the other package leaflets. [[The president calls.]] They are increasing in some places, but not everywhere. Words also come with responsibility, although the members of the council are involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u45	V.E.G. President. I don't want to go to any war on the treatment of terms, but of course we have to keep in mind that we're watching two time points. We're looking at those time points in years, from year one to year two, on schedule, from the current schedule to the next schedule. There's always talk about talk. After one year's use of the money, either growth or cutdown will occur at the time of the year two. There is nothing else to be done to help. For high school, the diagnostic work of the Committee is shown on page 5. 9 in a panel greater proportion where growth is combined during this period of 2018•2024. There is still another tablet in the package leaflet and the diagnostic work referred to in 2011. It's all in good standing. There is an increase to high school, an increase of 8% from 2018, despite the shortening, and money being held. It is also growth in university fields, a 24% increase in environmental value. I could count that for a long time. After discussing the table, it is then made clear that there are variations, such as the base. A senator was coming to, if possible, for the cost of building costs. The police are an example. Hv. A senator was talking about some underside, which is due to delivery of the last chopper, to form, between the years and beyond the timelines. [[The president calls.]] We need to keep such factors in mind when we are discussing these factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u46	Madam President. Here, perhaps we've come to the point. It may well be that the government can explain a decrease in total growth to some causes. We discussed this on a financial committee, and I think maybe some of the men who sat there agreed. At times, those answers were very basic. There was talk of saving because of reform work, money transfer, etc., some kind of phrases that were explaining large amounts of money. Sometimes it was explained just part of the money, and that's all. This may help us to appreciate that we need to work harder and maybe longer when we're talking about these numbers. We'll see that in high school budgets from 2020/2024, the plan is virtually in place. Even next year, there are 35 billion now, but they will be 34.9 2021 and 34.9 2022, and then they will only go back up to 2024 as they are in 2020. It's high school, it's just like he's been getting. I know my statistics. Sometimes, too, humans go back only in time. I've heard members of Congress talking about doing better in 2017 or 2018. If we get back on track, we'll get a different result. That can be true. There may be an increase, but if we take 20201⁄2024, it's not an increase. [[Up front.]] Let's just talk about the same thing. We may both be right, but we have different beginnings. But this is the plan 2020-2024, and it's just a Δriftline to go to high school. On page 18. 342 you see with the university, just look at it. The university without LIN only gets the same amount. I was surprised because it is in a government contract to put a little effort in there. Iceland's University without LIN, 39 billion 2020, 40 billion 2024. [[The president calls.]] It's almost the same number. These are the numbers I'm trying to get a deeper discussion about than someone screaming at me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u47	President. I can't tell you that I'm surprised to hear what you're saying. Senator. I sometimes wondered if he never heard of a story called Úlfur. Since the start of this government, he has been identified for every time in financial matters by means of a series of great fancies, the redundancy of everything and how much better everything would be if he and his party were in power. In the first few months of this government, a 19 billion increase was issued here, like I don't know what. Hv. A senator stands in a pita and allows himself to say that a word is important. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator knows what the word cutting means and also knows what the term is for financial discussion. When he allows himself to talk about this offer of surgery, it is unfairly outback. If I'm going to get a hundred thousand bucks. a raise of pay, but you get only 50,000 bucks. I didn't get paid, I got less pay than I expected. That makes sense. A senator, and he knows well that he is putting it off in words. That doesn't surprise me, but my words disappoint me. A senator is not a humble, reasonable witness. He exalts himself at the expense of others by means of heavy smoke and a twisting of their way of life. Such unfairness is contrary to the philosophy of life that I have acquired. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator would be glad to explain more with reasonableness, and perhaps just admit that the word cutting does not apply in this case. He would be more human if he could admit it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u48	Madam President. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator has beaten Iceland record in pride and arrogance. He here speaks of reasonableness. I don't know how many times I'm supposed to go over that when you're changing a donated plan as a government at least. This is what the senator proposes, the budget is being cut down, the amount to be cut down. That's fair, and that's just a fact. If I'd promised you what to do. A senator with a hundred thousand dollars. a raise of pay, but give 50 G's to that member of Congress. I'm dropping that money by 50,000, cutting down 50,000 bucks. [[Up front.]] We don't have to agree on this. Let's just talk about politics. That's what I'm trying to talk to you about. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed with the political bitch to reduce the estimated amount of money to disability, as it was in March, about 4.5 billion? All right, let's take the word cuts out of parentheses, but I ask, is it? A senator agreed with the politics that this is the right decision? That's what my criticism is about. It is strange to take an example of what is called the Wolf and the Wolf, saying that I had criticized this government before. Yes, I have indeed criticized this government before, and I specifically pointed out in my speech that many things we are going through here were just predictable. You would have been better able to listen to the parties who criticized the policy and plan of last year. Your financial policies were to be enough for five years, but worked for one year, including Because you don't listen to others. You didn't listen to the warning. This does not mean decribating criticism so that criticism is unfair. I don't know any better than that. A senator was a very powerful member of the government when he was in that role. Our role here is to point out better than ever. One of them is just the adjustments that are worse than your plan since March. There's the politics, Mrs. President, where the political differences are. It only serves the purpose of the government groups to hang from the word cuts that hurt them but to avoid the emphasis on criticism. Is there reason to reduce the estimated funds between discussions of 4.5 billion, over 1 billion to the environment, over 1 billion to high school? That's the politics you have to answer for, and that's what I'm always pointing at. [[The president calls.]] Materially, that is what counts.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u49	President. Again, I'm not surprised at how you're doing. A senator answers. He uses the cheapest talker in this council hall by turning up on his opponent and asking him questions. He never stops or looks into his own heart. He constantly criticizes and says that it is unfair to criticize himself, never to look at the contents of the criticism, perhaps to feel that it is up to someone. So, he's just begging to be talking about unreasonableness. For example, President, of the 20 points of the United States. Sixth is culture. There's talk of a reduction in schedule. It would have been fair to talk about the publication of the House of England, and then we stopped building it because it was being raised. That would have been fair. This refers to a contribution to rural society through an equation fund. It would have been fair to talk about income being tied up as a proportion of state funds. That would have been fair. It speaks of a process that will decrease. It would have been reasonable to talk about the end of a special campaign and that is the end. Let's talk about development. There's a down payment on her. It would have been fair to talk about it as a percentage of land production. None of these things can be found in this piece of paper. A senator, but all of this would have been fair. I refuse to talk about something unfair because of the fact that we hate to use it. Senator. Has he become the most holy person that his expressions should not be criticized? Consider another example of the fact that here he brings up some labels on the environment as a whole. What do you think? A senator on the rise in climate? It would be nice to hear something positive from the mouth. Senator. Between financial schemes, contributions to climate change from 6.8 billion to 8 billion in the previous schedule today and to the 2018 budget by 2017 increase 9% but go 2024 to 34%. Is that reasonable? A senator that he can commend for this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u50	Madam President. Yes, I praised the government in my speech. Hv. So a senator has not listened to it. I said in some areas there's an improvement. I want the discussion to be about the content and the severity of it. A senator believes that he can explain when the figures decline. What he says about culture, house, and transportation is not entirely correct. He explains the reduction by making an effort, and then it stopped.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u51	I explained... Stop turning my words.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u52	I won't. It has been said that there are improvements in all aspects of life.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u53	I didn't say that...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u54	No, I didn't say that. Government officials have talked about an increase in expenses in all areas, and I'm saying that this is not correct. It may well be. A senator and his government can explain some of this cuts between 2020 and 2024.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u55	...all this...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u56	No, it's not. I've already read it, haven't I? A senator, and this... [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u57	The president reminds us that the speaker standing in the chair has become. Take care of yourself. The senators have a conversation, and they do it differently. Hv. A senator has become and now completes an answer to an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u58	Madam President. I want it to be about the contents. I want it to be about politics. Are the adjustments good or bad? I think they're bad. Obviously, the government views them as good. That's what this politics thing is all about. It's about this discussion. I wouldn't have combined the upcoming contributions to disability by 4.5 billion. I wouldn't have. In this respect, Madam President, we're in a different position. With regard to climate, I rejoice over every cent in that lawsuit. I so warmly welcomed it and specifically stated that we want to double the money, huh? Senator. It will take a backseat when the environmental changes are made in the budget of more than 1 billion less than there was between discussions. It'll blow. I have a positive view of climate action, and I want to do better. I think that's what we're talking about. Similarly, a senator wants to do the same. We can go so much more together in this small community in which we live, but I restate upon the fact that the changes in the motions are about politics and our pernicious criticism that this is not the right thing to do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-20-128.u59	Mr. President. I recommend a proposal for a hearing of approval for the continuation of General Assembly meetings according to Article 1. 23rd par. The constitution. The suggestion is as follows: ▪ The General concludes to agree that meetings will be postponed from June 20, 2019, or later, if necessary, to August 28, 2019, ◯ The motion is self-explanatory.
