ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u1	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. Congress, about the length of a meeting, suggests that a meeting meeting can last longer than the Senate dictates. Consider this proposal approved if no one objects. The president also wants to inform us that lunch will be more marked today for the Christmas dinner that will be in the bowl and that there will be a break between hours between. 12 and 13.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u2	To answer, Prime Minister, Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs, Tourism, Industrial and Neony Ministers, and Transport and Regional Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u3	President. Once again, I have to point to an instance in which the government's right hand has no idea what the left hand is doing, or indeed, where the left hand seems to be opposed to what the right hand is doing. In Götavík, Berufjörður, in some industrial mode experiments, began. This was done after approval of the Food Institute, which included certificates, application forms, and customs funds. Then began to grow on June 1st. Soon after the culture began much publicity about it, there was no secret, and the couple in Götavík opened their door to the media. V.E.G. In fact, industrial and innovation minister discussed these experiments here in a pita two months ago. The coverage was unsurpassedly positive, for industrial disaster is a tremendously useful product that could easily ease the lives of farmers all over the country of the coming years. The positive results did not reach the EMA, which sent the police to the East for the fact that in Gautavík would be developed by illegal plants. The police came to the site, but they did nothing but collect data at this point, starting with all the available licences. The Ministry of Health was contacted for a meeting with a health minister, but it was denied, from me, and referred to the proposed discussion between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Professional and Development. So I ask the highest. Minister: How do these talks stand, and what has a minister done to simplify the regulations and activities for industrial disaster development, as she said she would do? And when can we expect the police to stop slaving in agriculture?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u4	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I have, like, a what? A senator, not only follow this scene in the media but also deal with the people involved. I've been meeting several sources from this sector. I've sat down with everyone who's wanted a meeting and is just as positive as I was before. A senator recently discussed these matters. I've assigned my secretary to link our Ministry to other departments because this is a lawsuit that reaches into at least Four departments. Language groups sometimes suffer when in too many places. I have also received information from the Department of Health that I have the will to start this work, and I have taken it well, and I have actually taken it upon myself to take this matter just in my arms. From what I have studied, it seems to me that the problem lies in legislation under the Ministry of Health and Health Ministers. We simply have to take a little time to map it and move on in it. My opinion is very clear, in fact, that it is extraordinary that the city will not have the doubt when he has received permission from the government and that when that citizen himself points to a strange position in the law of law, that very man of the city should be given another government to him who says, "Hey, it's not as it should be. In that case, I feel that the city should have a general share of the doubt and that it should be viewed in a moderate way. My will is clear, I see an incredible amount of opportunities for production and production and all that is involved and I will do what I can to get these things right.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u5	President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for this answer. It's good to be clear that a minister is interested in this case, is planning to take this ball and continue with it. It's also good to hear that the problem is very clearly and clearly, the problem is that the plant all agree with the drug and drug law. That's what needs to be changed. Surprisingly, we really need to submit to laws and regulations that falsely classy products are more right than common sense. It is important that we correct this as soon as possible, and especially in view of the fact that I have received the information from sources who have brought in theoretical that now it is only illicit, that people no longer can bring in these seeds, the Bureau of Medicine has stopped it and presented it in the hands of the Food Organization. This is the information I have, and I feel sorry for the discussion I had with the highest. During October, a minister in the pantret of the Generals had been able to carry on experimental activities in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u6	Mr. President. I agree with what. Senator. In the foundation, it's about that in front of us there's an opportunity, there's people who want to try it and have ideas and solutions and want to use them to make more valuables. It is the most environmentally friendly plant in the world, and whether it has to do with toy production, an object in which a plant can replace plastics or supplements, it becomes the basis for government to be alone with its citizens. If the government does not know which way to go, then the government's problem is the government's solution, not the citizens who have gone to one government, have permission, and then become in trouble from another government. For instance, the police will start with a valid law, and it is our job to solve it so that the law is clear. Again, I reiterate that my mind allows people in general to have time to use these opportunities and to produce more valuable things. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u7	A respectable president. All of us are thinking about the situation we are going through now in terms of the so - called Samherjam. I have, for example. I'm looking at the WikiLeaks papers on the case. That's where I ran, even. on e-mail communications between some sort of agent or agent in cooperation with Samherja, Poland, with the Samherja officers, including the company's attorney. This e - mail exchange took place in May 2016. It says that Samherji has a plan for a declaration of will or a contract to promote Iceland and Poland's trade in the field of fishing, fish farming, and biotechnology. Why is Samherji involved in such a treatable contract in a fishing road between Iceland and Poland, where the company is heavily loaded with fishing and sales? They have this contract in their hands two months before it was formally signed by Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, then a marine minister, on behalf of Iceland in July 2016. Tells you the highest. Prime Minister that this is not very serious? Here, the Icelandic government is making a national deal, and he's doing his job in the Ministry, and Samherji has the papers under his hands and knows what's in preparation. This is corruption, isn't it? How is it that Samherji, probably one of the Icelandic companies, had this document in hand while working in the Ministry, or that it only happens in Icelandic administration, has access to documents that are in progress, not just treaties, but regulations and laws as well? The other thing is that I can't see better than Samherji at the time was using this plot that a fishing contract between Iceland and Poland would try to establish an parallel agreement between Namibia and Poland on fish research. The purpose of this was to create a credible and correct image around hunting on considerable fish sources that Poland had in Namibia's jurisdiction, and the Samherji has obviously participated in and even cared for. There, the WikiLeaks documents point out that millions of dollars have been paid to handle. [[The president calls.]] Has the prime minister examined these documents? Has the government ever looked at them in general? [[The president calls.]] It's an open world. Only one computer is needed to see.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u8	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Obviously, I'm not aware of why Samherji had in his possession such a contract that is unusual, in fact, to be made between countries. I know enough to do such a project that I know that when preparing these contracts, they are often introduced to a total industry organization. But exactly how this is so, I obviously don't know, since I wasn't a sea chief at the time. I'm not sure if there's a working ocean leader that's still working. A senator gave some explanations about this, but he did. On the other hand, it is so, because of that. So a senator makes my shoes that I'm supposed to be in an independent investigation of this case, that this case is in the process. This case is in the process of a district attorney investigating issues that have developed, including because of the detailed newspaper reports of the alleged payoffs by Samherja to the Namibian government. Of course, this is a matter in the process of being with the district attorney and with the tax investigator and I trust these institutions to do their job. I trust them to investigate these matters. This has been repeated in my case, but clearly, Mr. President, I do not know exactly why Samherji had agreed to the agreement made in 2016.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u9	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I wasn't trying to suggest that she had been a sea chief at the time. Rather, I was mainly considering the seriousness of the situation. We know that there are some 60,000 documents at WikiLeaks. They've been published 30,000 of them. It's gonna take a long time to go over all this. I mean, as I directed it directly to the minister earlier, whether she has any consideration of these data that are open to all whom they want to examine in view of the fact that the local district attorney is calling for an increase in humanity. These are 60,000 documents. We're totally bathing under 600 pages when we're trying to scratch through the budget. So I'm just saying, he's asking for six people right now to help him do this. I suppose it takes a pretty powerful army to look at 60,000 documents, and that's why I'm asking back the highest. A minister may have tried to scratch herself through these documents to learn more. [[The president calls.]] I don't think any of us have any severity.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u10	Mr. President. The matter is serious, that's what we all agree with. V.E.G. The minister of justice has made it very clear that the district attorney will have full time to conduct this investigation so that it will be completely reinvented and all stones will be reversed. This has been made clear, not even, but much more often, both in this hall and in another public discussion. I have full confidence in the district attorney to present this investigation. Because of what? A senator asks me: " No, I have not read these 60,000 documents. I just trust that the right institutions will do the job they're supposed to do. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u11	Mr. President. On average, the whale takes 33 tons of CO 2. That is equal to some 1,500 adult trees. Government left green, tops. As far as 223 C.E., the government has authorized the killing of 1,465 long-rangers and 1,085 rapids. Only part of the long-term experience of 1,065 animals equals nearly 35,000 tons of CO 2. So I must ask the highest. The prime minister, whether she as a cognition of the government and with the direction of the left greens of wanting to risk whale hunting will not take the initiative to stop hunting and killing at the whales now when, in addition to the animal protection grounds, the important views, have come to a precious climate argument. My question to the highest. Prime Minister is: Will she record this within the government, and will she cancel the permit? Will she take advantage of the fact that there will be a baloney ban on Iceland? At the same time, it would be a precious declaration for most of Iceland's image at this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u12	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator who asks about whaling and whether the prime minister intends to cancel his license for whale hunting. Hv. A senator knows that the decision, of course, rests on the shoulders of the highest. Secretary of the sea. He's gonna do that. He's gonna do it. Of course, we have already considered the ultimate argument. Ministers were for such permission. This was because of the research available on the stock size of these specific species that were issued for fishing. It was thought by a Merit Research Institute, which I have no reason to doubt, that it would be safe to hunt from these institutions from their viewpoints. But like a dog. A senator, however, well remembers in my case the last time she asked me about this, which was probably earlier this year, that this permit has not been new. I think it's very important, and I've requested it at the highest. marine eco-efficiency, the overall assessment of these trends, not just from stock size, but from sustainable development, i.e. On the one hand, the economic effects of fishing and community and the rest of the environment. This, of course, has to do with what the senator mentioned on the subject of climate impacts. That kind of food needs to be done, and I don't think it's done like that. A senator knows it because she has asked me that question before. A report published by the National Institute of Economic Research (U.S.A.A.S.A.A.S.A.A.S.A.A.A.A.S.A.S.A.S.A.S.A.S.S.A.S.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u13	Mr. President. I'm pretty happy at the highest. A minister says that I asked certain questions before, although in the meantime a significant information was provided based on a study of the effect of whales on climate issues. Why do I say I am pleased to have a minister say that I asked before? That's because we never get any answers here. There's always some exits. What remains remains is that the left green is not to be used as the rule of a whaling ban despite being in charge of this government. The answer is that the matter should be mentioned in a committee. The case is to be put on a committee. There's probably the answers here, if men usually trust to stand by their convictions, on the side of the governments. I ask again, and I hope that I have a clear answer: Will. Ministers will claim that the Icelanders no longer kill whales?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u14	Mr. President. I feel that politics is not necessarily about frenchness but about the fact that we should base our decisions on evidence. So I spoke to a seafaring minister of my time, after the data were at the highest level. A minister offered here, both from a Marine Research Institute for Proliferation and the Economic Institute for the University of Iceland, that there would be a more extensive assessment of the impact of whale fishing and the assessment of sustainable whales from what I covered earlier. In case of a moment. A senator would like to call such a investigation into a committee that we disagree completely on the value of science, research, and data of careful decision making.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u15	Mr. President. There has been no past the conditions that have developed here, especially in the north and east, and, of course, to the western horizon. Today, many individuals and businesses, farmers and others, have been without electricity for a few days, and many are still. Farmers have had to pour out milk. Enterprises have not been able to start their machines to produce goods, water is not available to water supply animals or people, etc. You ask yourself, " How can it be that by the end of 2019 this situation exists? ' Even in this area, why might we be at such a time that even if the electricity does not go off, there is no backup power to drive the major urban facilities? I read in the news this morning that there was an attempt to connect a watchship to run electricity into Dalvik. But how could it be this way? Although the weather was high, we have often seen similar weather in Iceland. Lines have been broken before, the sale has settled on nesting stations and so on, but is it really that way, topv. Minister, we haven't learned anything? We must ask ourselves, " Is it okay for a minister to have come up with this situation, that the state business of Richard and the Landsnet have not done better in preparing or being ready when such things can happen? ' Is it acceptable that people need to be contacted by mass relief stations because houses cannot be lit? What will the minister do about these matters? Has a minister been given an explanation from the Governments of Richard and Landsnets on what went wrong? Why would it take so long to get electricity into these places? Will the government meet companies and individuals in any way that has suffered damage that does not cover bail? When does the minister expect the people to have electricity again?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u16	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry and getting the opportunity to review these matters. First, the question is, Is the transport and distribution systems in Iceland strong enough? No. Do we have to do more work, trust it, and build it up? Yeah. Have construction activities been very smooth, especially in the transport systems of the past few years? No, not at all. Have we stressed our trust in the transport systems of electricity? Do we have our eyes on those balls? Are we trying to do what we can to speed it up and accomplish the work that needs to be accomplished? The answer is yes. You can both shrink and give because, of course, it is obvious that the weather was very unusual. Let's watch to form Theist Index Line 1, which is a top line in our system, brand new and very strong. Still, it goes out that tells us that the weather was clearly intense and painful. Then these companies are answering exactly how they prepared for the weather. Did they have enough people in every place to determine where the weather was to be worst? They need to answer that question. Is there anything we can learn from this experience? Of course. The government will put together and lay down the events that have been going on over the past few days and review how we can take direct action to learn from them. We have a rather complex system of rules about how we perform such a project, and it can be done better. That's what I'm willing to do. It's taken too long to make the important changes to the main transport system that has had to be done. [[The president calls.]] But I also say that there have been a lot of projects in the system, both the network and the transport system. For the most part, the distribution system is brought into the earth, so it also produces its own. [[The president calls.]] And I'm not going to bring some adverse judgment on those who have worked hard these past few days.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u17	V.E.G. President. I don't know what the ultimate penalty is. The minister is talking about, she was not asked to make any judgments. However, the question is, How is it that governments are not better equipped when the weather forecast is obvious? In the past, the loss of lines has occurred, in the past, at some point in the construction and electrical outlet, which has been a long time since electricity has gone into its present time. Another factor is that the rescue forces in the country seemed to have been below them. They took rescue cars north of the country to be prepared. In spite of the weather forecast, it does not seem that Rark or Landsnet brought the spare power stations to the north, not taking electrical posts to prepare if lines broke. I understand the Theistaregal line has not been broken, there have been some technical malfunctions, probably due to ice or something like that. It's unacceptable that this is happening at this time, tops. A minister and a respectable president, that we are not better prepared than this. We must insist that this matter be considered. I suppose the Central Party will ask the Minister for a report on this matter, the consequences of it, and try to impress that this cannot happen again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u18	Mr. President. I just mention again that it is, of course, these companies to answer for the decisions they make. These companies are owned by government. They have governments, and they answer for that. I'm glad that whoever it is here at the council calls for special information, both in general, on status, as it were. paritaprevir Njáll of Trausti, son of Friðbertsson, has also made what reports on what to learn from this. I've had good relations with both the presidents of the Landsnet and Rarisks over the past few days, and I've watched very closely and closely what the situation is, and I know these examples as common. A senator mentions. And just so you can make it clear, it sounds like you're talking to me. A senator agree completely, and I assume most of these halls are and that no one has to compete for who is most active in the transport and distribution systems of electricity or the regions where the fact is that they do not have as much infrastructure as they are here. [[The president calls.]] That is why I mentioned in the morning newspaper that at times I feel that there is a lack of understanding in the capital population that the situation is less favorable in other territories. [[The president calls.]] Then the situation becomes even worse there, especially for the inhabitants of their territory.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u19	Mr. President. We live in a rich country, rich in resources and quality. V.E.G. The minister of finance told Kryddsild Brar two years ago, about three years ago, the one with the state's money on his table, that it would need some kind of insanity to avoid seeing how great this country is on which we built. This is truly a wonderful country, we are a rich nation that has done a wonderful work in many areas, but this happy nation has been in trouble with governments when it comes to maintaining our important inwards. In fact, it is a great country, and despite mismanagement of governments, it is a great nation. What are we talking about? According to a more recent medical study of OECD, it is confirmed that professionals and many others have held forward for years; we do not provide enough money for health care. It has been said that in many areas of the health system, but with this report, we can see the blackness of whites that, compared with the contribution to health care in Iceland, far from what is known around us and far away from the North countries, which we so would like to compare with. By permission of the President, I'd like to quote at the highest level. A secretary of finance who said that there is something about a system that constantly accepts large sums of money but keeps getting stuck in business. Now it's got the highest. Secretary of finance confirmed that neither more than 21 European countries contribute to health care. We are under the average state of the Union, 8.8% of gross domestic product, since we now contribute only 8.3%. The rich nations, the whole North countries, Germany, and others, contribute about 10 to 11% of land production. I'm asking the highest. Financial Minister: Could it not be that what's wrong with this system here in Iceland is a government that has already come into place may not be particularly good at setting priorities and making needed money?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u20	The president would like to ask a minister to stay here and call attention to the fact that it's time we're having a problem, not counting down, so we're going to have a manual time check.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u21	A respectable president. Hv. A senator tells us the problem with governments. I suppose this is reflected in the failure of the nation with members of Congress. But we have a democratic system that has gone well and outlasts all other premises in setting up a government in the country. Here's what we'll do. A member of the health - care profession is a medium and the share of GDP for health care in Iceland. I say, there is not a universal measure of health quality in one country. First, we have a good health system in Iceland. We provide a fine service, we have outstanding health care professionals, we provide service across the country, we offer medicines, and access to health care that compares to the best of what happens. And, yeah, everyone's good to live in Iceland. We speak more of other nations in equal terms and in general in a sense of contentment. It is a broad range of flea standards that each of us displays in Iceland among the nations that stand out as prominent among the nations. Why is gross domestic production not a universal measure of contributions to health care? Let me tell you something. We Icelanders are a young people, and there is a linear relationship between national age and the needs for health contributions. As younger peoples, the greater the need for contributions to health care, and vice versa, as old years have passed, the greater the need. Correcting this will reveal a completely different picture. A senator draws up and tells us we're under the average OECD. Of course, we need to look at these things, but we should not just look at them; we should ask ourselves, " How well is my ministry? ' It is the service and its quality, not the proportion of grosser domestic product.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u22	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The secretary of finance is very much for his words, but he may not have responded because he was asked if the problem in Iceland might be the government that is not ready to make enough money for health care. I don't know if it's the highest. Minister has been tracking news lately. In fact, there have been extenuating reports at a local hospital that have been in enough trouble lately, that are giving out the fixed pay contracts of all the staff of the Land Hospital, an emergency convention in Fos gang, has been tasteful for months, and very overloaded where people come in, and they are not thrown out on the street. V.E.G. A minister spoke of outstanding service. It is not because of the government that we provide outstanding medical services but because of the medical personnel running and running far beyond what is normal. Health care providers themselves say that the safety of patients is not guaranteed in the condition that the ríkisstjórn of the daughter of Katrín Jacob offers. [[The president calls.]] That's why I finally want to pray to the highest. Secretary of finance to look even if only a quick look at the numbers in the OECD report. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u23	A respectable president. This government has no greater issue than health issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u24	That's not enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u25	We have greatly increased contributions to health care in this government. Hv. A senator calls up here and says, "Not enough. " Please refer to 1 billion or 2◯3 billion, and then, in the other words, that according to some OECD number, we should defend 1% or even 2% more of the land production for health care. What are 2% of the EU's health production products? Sixty billion. What's this whisk? A senator talking about, a respectable president? Is it referring to our having to put 60 billion people in the medical system, or is it referring to this problem that appears to us in 1, 2 and 3 billion? I'm bringing something to the attention. Hv. A senator complains that the proportion of land production compared to other OECDs is not good enough for us. All right, I'll see, but I'm pointing out that the country's dating hasn't been corrected. In the other word, the system is so admired and said to be responsible for the staff. I agree with that. Just as schools are brought up by teachers, the health - care system is brought up by the health - care professionals, and this works well. [[The president calls.]] At the end of the day, it is not the proportion of national product that is listed here, but the quality of the service that is very high. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u26	Clearly, the manual timing is not the same in sticking to the material.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u27	A respectable president. Here we are going to vote for a variant on a case that is still too late. At least one of them could have been in its own hands a long time ago, the so - called media, but it's been in the government and the administrative system for some time that is likely to explain how late it is coming in here. However, it is not a date issue, so it is very special to intend to press it through on the final days of the council. It would also have been possible to recommend it in January. However, it is clear that the greater part is willing to recommend it at the council, and after the events it comes to the committee. The middle class, however, will not accept variations in the issues involved, so it will become red when it comes to votes for variations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u28	A respectable president. I agree with what. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, it's getting really tired that you always have to look for variations to let things in so late, long after you've run into it. There is, however, something interesting about matters such as validation of a government account. That account was long ago. Is it not possible to set some calendar in the Ministry of Economics to remember paying the bill for the council so that you do not have to look for a form of variation to establish it at the last minute when you have spent months in the Ministry?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u29	A respectable president. There's been a complaint in the winter that cases don't come in from the government. Then they come here at the last minute, and I sound a little bit like a broken record, but that's because over and over again the same situation is overrun, they're overexcited and they don't get adequate treatment for the council. That's not necessary, most of all. You can come in early, and I feel that a respectable president should start showing minorities to the government, just saying no, that things won't be taken over by variations, maybe this case, because it is important, not just any case that the government can offer long after the end of time. Also, I'd like to mention that I didn't notice that the phone rang before. Am I right? [[The point is, it's true.]] Yeah, I don't think it's allowed to get used to it because Congress officials need to know when it's a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u30	In fact, that is correct, but when votes are scheduled and when the program is arranged, this is not an uninterrupted custom. If the president notices that many people are missing from the hall, he usually makes a phone call. The president will thank you for the advice and he'll just call to do it right now. A senator pleased.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u31	A respectable president. The program on the 23rd issue on the program on sexual autonomy, adjustment that allows for a person in a foreign land to record his or her sex and name just in the absence of a foreign country. I think it's important that things get through as soon as possible. Since I could not expect the matter to come into the council sooner, I feel justified in paying the street. I vote by putting the case on schedule.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u32	A respectable president. I asked at the end of yesterday's meeting for the highest. The Minister of Justice would be here because I have a lot of questions for her on this matter. So the core of the case we're discussing here is an entry to employees from being state workers to be employees of the National Church. Under it is this contract, which seems to be a pay contract with the church, this additional church agreement, although it should not be so according to the original church meeting, which is a payment and a complete payment on property. Mixing it up like this is extremely complicated in this regard, and the questions that have woke up - forgive, a respectable president, could I have a silence in the audience?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u33	A speaker is correct, the hall is full of surprises. People are expected to leave their own private meetings in the hall and return to their seats.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u34	Simple questions have arisen in this discussion. First, I'll ask what kind of service we're buying. This agreement is being transferred to the Service and Convention Part of the budget, and it is clearly set up in the official financial legislation on the basis of monitoring roles and quality requirements for these agreements. This contract cannot be paid contracts, as it appears. How much does that service cost, and why does it cost so much? Why won't it cost more? Why doesn't it cost less? We have no idea, and there is no dissociation of what service we are receiving. How do we make up the type of possession that the original church meeting was supposed to be about? What is the value of the commitments of property that ran to the State in 1997 and 1998 at the church meeting? How do we fill 62 degrees? The constitution? Is that part of this agreement or not? I have no idea. Is this the change in church order in requiring a national payment of 79 C.E. The constitution? It's not just this bill that's on here, it's a declaration of will and will regarding other changes associated with this additional meeting. Is the basis for the change so great that it was warned of a change in church order according to the Constitution so that it needs a national law? Is this going to be good? Is that what a national bill needs? It's changing the National Church from an institution in Part A of the State and taking it out there. I'd say it's quite a change after all. Is the agreement in the law on public finances acceptable? If you look at the points in the official financial law, the text is in front of you, and the comparison with the additional meeting shows that there is a clear conflict between them. It says, for example. The 15-year review period for the contract time and the maximum time in the official financial law on such agreements is up to five years. How, therefore, can the government bring such an agreement and bring it before the Council? What's the legal authority on this contract? Steal it up to 41. Constitutions of budgets, that no fee can be paid, except for financial or financial contributions, when it comes to this long, undisclosed period of contract? How, then, should the council be able to observe whether the legal rights of government are based on policy and goals, as expected in the civil law? Why does this look just like a pay contract to this 90% share of the contract when this is to be due to property contributions or to buy a particular service, as the discussion has shown? What kind of service are we talking about? Is it a service offered by some? Overall, the bill we're discussing is, just specifically, in some respects fine. In fact, I complain that only eight days have passed since the bill was submitted. It doesn't come about getting the normal payment and reviews that I make a very serious comment according to the size of the changes, but in general, I'm in favor of the changes being made. But there are so many other factors involved in this bill, which is very wrong. The addition of the convention itself is a key to these changes because, as I say, this is exactly what it looks like for being a pay contract, and then we have to talk about the rest of the meeting together. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u35	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying that I'm a follower of this case, so it was alleged that I was by the fact that the members of the National Church will become their employees. Looking at the National Church, it provides a variety of services. Its Web site contains helpful information, and it contains the permission of a president, as follows: The Church of the Nations is an Evangelical League. She's a free, independent organization that works all over the country. All the people of this country can be part of it. A network of international parishes ensures that the church's services reach the people of all lands. The church is open to all, has access to its services, and is not required for religious service. It can be said, then, that the church follows every human child from cradle to grave. The bill on this subject is specifically a law on the rights and responsibilities of the government's employees and the law on the pension fund of the employees of the state. So these matters are being sharpened. I can, however, say that the matter is very late, and we are given a good time to discuss this important matter. I also agree that it is necessary for the bill to have sufficient space in relation to the reporting times and the arrival of guests. There are many tasks that the nations are fulfilling, and at the top of my mind, the role of education is the national church. It's pretty powerful for all age groups. Most of us are likely to experience the bar mobilization program that takes place each year around the country. At least one of us who is here will remember the time when we walked to the priest. True, it wasn't always the most enjoyable times, but I'm pretty sure no one has forgotten those times. But it is not merely the bar mitzvah education that identifies the church's most educational work, even though it is most prominent. There are also training for adults and children. The so - called parents'mornings are well - known, and the national church is also educational about the grief and grief response and the work of older citizens, that I know best, for it is based on social foundations as well as religious in blending. I remember Zion's Sunday school especially well myself. Zion was a house on the Akureyri Road, now hosting RUS in the north. There I and many other children were at our meetings. I especially remember the Bible films, the songs we sang, and not mind the illustrated air that was in the Zion house, which, unfortunately, has been painted with a white, foody paint. It was certainly an outcast. In the latter time, I have enjoyed the ministry of the church both in joy and in grief, as it were. I am especially happy that there is going to be a compromise around the National Church. I sincerely hope that this bill for the law we're discussing here will lead to a measure of peace, even though I also fully realize that the Church is alive as it is, and it will always be talked about, even controversial. In this way, though, we will be able to get on with our minds the issues we consider. In this regard, I can criticize the church for the point that only cremation can be used here in the capital area. I have often wondered if it is just that people around the country have to move south to get this church service. I mean, the Church needs to do better on these matters, especially now when we see that the country's increased share prefers funerals. So we can ask ourselves, " Why do people choose them more than others? ' It may be money that plays into it. It is expensive to live on a funeral, and at the same time, the question is, Should there be some kind of equation price for those who prefer to cremation on the southwest corner? I choose to approach the bill in a way that is technically in the sense that wording is being updated and harmonized with the time we are living in today's day. Hence, such expressions as putting into office and linked words are being changed. Jobs and services are now to be discussed. It also discusses pay and the likes of things that surely need to be moved to modern times. In other words, the role of the National Church is to be explained, and it has to do with the church's financial affairs. Yesterday's discussion was about the church's finances, the inexplicable financial affairs around the church, and I agree with that. I hope with this rule we're discussing here there will be an improvement in those things. I agree completely that the financial independence of the National Church should be increased and the simpleness of the laws proclaimed by this bill. At the end, though, I would have preferred that the bill not affect the status or equality of the sexes rather than say that it is not expected. But it's probably just a matter of wording, and I hope it means the same thing. Yesterday, the word "ethnic church " was debated. Someone thought it was inappropriate and even wanted to say that we should use expressions such as the church of the people. But I think a national church is just a very beautiful word that surrounds all people living in this country. I also realize that the Church has a role as a parent. I think it rhymes with the values people in the country want to live with. I'm gonna make this work for a while, and I hope this bill works out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u36	A respectable president. The church, like most of the other things we wrestle here, and like this institution we are in, is a work of men. Hv. A senator speaks of the cost and rewards we are dealing with in this bill and of the additional agreement on which this law changes. We are confronted with an additional gathering of 3.5 billion or so after the entire arrangement is taken together, it seems that to be a pay contract with the National Church to transfer these employees from being government employees to being the employees of the National Church. In spite of all other things, that these things should be done for the sake of property, and such things as these things have become a remuneration under them. But in addition, the church receives 2 billion or 80% of the fees that all other congregations use to pay the clergy pay and the like. The additional contract is pay-count assured, 90% of the additional contract is about uplifting the pay. The fees for all other congregations do not. Then you wonder, because it's a work of men like anything else here, how it's in harmony with equality after all. All other congregations need to apply their charges, and that is pay - but not according to pay. And then there are 3.5 billion more that we shovel past the pay fees to the National Church for pay and then give an additional 80% of the parish fees. How does this fit?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u37	President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Björn of Gunnarsson's Leví very much. You can say that this deal is about dollars and pennies. I don't know if that's what we do with other parishes, if that's what we do. Hv. A senator noted that 80% of parish pay goes to the church. I know I'm not supposed to ask questions here, but I'd like to wonder anyway, why just 80%? Why not just 100% to the church? Then what? A senator wondered, if I understand him correctly, why does it have to do with the pay sheet when it's not with other religious or biological organizations? Does it have to create a match between them? It may well be necessary. But in my mind, this bill is the first step we take in sharpening how we want to have the National Church in this country. Then there may be other biological institutions that follow, thus indicating that they will be under the same conditions as the local churches. It may well be that we develop there. But I don't want to think of what we're doing today, cutting out anything else.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u38	A respectable president. This is very interesting, and I make exactly comments to equals in this installation, doing this for the National Church now, and then perhaps later for other religions. It is definitely uneven, and this needs to be done at the same time for all of them if that is the way they should act. I find this case very difficult for me because of the additional convention that the bill is based on because I have no idea why this amount of money in the additional assembly was chosen, not the slightest idea. I don't know how much part of it is because of the possession. I don't know how much it is to support and protect the State Church by constitution. I don't know how much of this amount is available and what services are involved. As we discussed yesterday, when we receive various services from the National Church, we also pay extra. I thought we had paid, but no, we have to pay more in baptisms and bar mitzvahs or whatever that is. Then I scratch my head and just ask this simple question: Is there a pay deal, don't people have a full-time job doing exactly what they're charged for now? I just think it's the minimum requirement of the council, since we're supposed to agree with the budget for this, to be able to ask and accept: Yes, that's the kind of service we're buying. And yes, this service is being performed. And yes, that depends on the quality we do. This is to be true of all government operations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u39	President. Thank you. A senator very much. In many ways, I agree with the senator that it would be a wishful spirit if we could have some form of equality. But at the same time, we're working this thing right here today. Last night's discussion made me feel the greatest. The minister of Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigrnjörn, who sits in the side room right now, says - and I cut it down - that the work started in 2012. There are probably some data that sheds any light on what is involved, what property transfer is there, etc. I can agree with the senator's comments about our service purchases, we buy services from the church. What is most visible is baptisms and bar mitzvahs, funerals, and all of this, and we pay for it additionally, that can be said to be. Maybe the church itself is some real estate that has to be paid rent for the use of the occasion, I don't know how to do it. But what we never discuss is salvation. I don't know that any priest in this land would send an account to the people after that, after he has gone and helped save them. It would be interesting to discuss the magnitude of the subject. Is that not just a part of the work that the priests perform during the course of their ministry?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u40	A respectable president. We will discuss a bill to correct a change in the law of state, government, and practices of the National Church, as well as other laws that the recently established agreement with the State with the National Church requires changes. There's a lot that needs to be considered with a contract like this. There have been some complaints that this discussion has been far and wide. has been widely discussed about the church meeting and the additional agreement that the State made on the basis of that agreement. But it is not unusual for the council to discuss the issues with this bill discussed, since we rarely have an opportunity to discuss or have any effect on the arrangement over the head. I hope, however, that when the matter is addressed on a committee, there will be several issues taken into consideration. The first mention is, according to Article 40. The principle that negotiations are made for no longer than five years is laid down on government finance. I don't see that there is any attempt to argue in a paper with the bill why that bill is fixed on the subject has been untimely made. It must be the wise principle of the State not to make over the heads of untimely agreements. Responding to changing circumstances is a very difficult opportunity for the government. There must be a minimum need for us - even if the churches certainly have a considerable special status at that time, including some of them. because of a governmental hierarchical State church - require that the European Commission not negotiate with the State Church for a longer period than five years, as there is a principle on the law on public finance, unless there are any good reasons. If such reasons exist, it is at least logical why, when the principle is a maximum five - year contract period, an untimely agreement should be made. It cannot be so much a problem to renew the contracts well planned for five years at the time of the State Church and to address each case with any reimbursement, for example. of the simple fact that the number of people in the Church of Iceland has fallen about one third since the 1997 church meeting. I hope that the Committee's work calls for legal support for how this non-real agreement, which we are making after a government law went into effect, will meet the standards of 40.g. First, regarding the duration and second, regarding the definition of the service being performed under the contract and how monitoring of that service should be performed. Although the Church has a special position, it is perfectly normal to make it comparable to what we generally expect of those who accept substantial financial contributions each year, to be monitored for the activities being carried out, that there is certainly some fundamental principle on which services are being given, since this is not a small amount of money. Here lies directly under 3.5 billion a year, inebriated, untimely paid, and cannot be observed to have any review of that agreement until 17 years' end of first. The next four terms have been tied, we can tell you, in terms of this contract. Therefore, it is a minimum requirement before the council cancels this contract, for it is certainly a requirement for the completion of the contract and therefore the only way for the Senate to intervene in the contract for the next 17 years, that the committee adopts a careful decision as to whether this agreement is in line for public financial matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u41	A respectable president. I think this contract agreement on the time of the contract is simply illegal. If tests occur, at least can make any significant changes to it right after five years, if not earlier, since there is no law on length. I wanted to draw the discussion a little bit into a budget committee on this matter. This contract, connected with the bill, is essential for the remuneration of employees we are moving from the state to the National Church. In the discussion of this agreement in a budgetary committee, this problem was definitely brought up with respect to public financial laws, but for some reason more of the legal committee in its role no object to this arrangement that I find a little interesting. I wondered if there's not a particular flaw there, a lack of interference between the European Commission and the legislature authority shown in this exact case. Of course, if there was a separation between these two parties, the budget would have made comments to this obvious offense, as I think, on the public financial law but did not because of the development of the authority and the legal authority in this relationship.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u42	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think we're right next to what's going on. A senator that, because of the nature of our administration, we are involved, if we can call it a political executive or a political executive, but unfortunately, it is sometimes carried out on the other side, we have a government legal authority. In the end, decisions are made within the individual scheme or at the government table which are so just run through, stamped and approved, often without much discussion. This particular case is exactly that way. It is very late, and it is obvious that there is very limited time for the council to work on the case, e.g. on committees, calling for needed reviews about this and after events, as I am calling out for, is that there is a legal opinion as to whether a contract like this will be passed on public financial matters. I think that's a minimum requirement. It is highly unusual that the European Commission can have a contract that this will bind the legislature to years, and even decades without the fact that the Council has ever come to accept the agreement at once. That can't be a normal practice. This discussion has repeatedly pointed out that the non-time duration of this contract will go against the main objective of Article 40. the law on government finance, on how treaties should be made for no longer than five years, and then at least a full support for the ousting of that principle must be made. I miss logical support, and I really miss that we have no more princely authority in this room to abide by the laws that we ourselves have set. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u43	A respectable president. At first, I wholeheartedly agree that we should change the bill as it looks. I want to do it well, however, because it's a bit much. There are some changes in some places, but you can't see the context unless you go into the law, change out, and try to see if anything is missing, whether there are side effects that you can't see so easily in the bill itself. The report does not necessarily indicate that it is all right, but we have recently experienced the misdirection of an article here and there, and it recently cost the State 5 billion dollars. Key elements in this process are we talking about 3.5 billion a year, 7 in two years, 14 in four years, 28 in eight years. The sources behind the adjustment of the law count tremendously fast, without our knowing what we are getting and really without the permission of the council. It's embarrassing for me because of the Constitution's legal legal rights if we're going to be the financial guardians. We have the legal authority and the legislature, but in this matter, the European Commission will roll over both the legislature and the financial resources. That's a huge issue in that regard. I find it very necessary to point out this problem accurately in relation with the short notice it comes to the council and that it is to be run through the committee for a New Year's Eve, which is far from the period of notice and all that is needed in the Senate. [[The president calls.]] This case is a small test case in a sense in the way it violates the legislature authority, the financial authority, and then the Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u44	A respectable president. The main purpose of the law on public finances was to provide more firmness in the management of financial funds, to explain, to work on clear goals, of course, to provide clear sources for the expenses established, and to provide more discipline and foreknowence in the way the State worked. This included complete change from the criteria e.g. for the management of government funds when the 1997/1998 church convention was conducted. The review that opened after 15 years is completely wasted to the point that the slightest attempt is made to minimize this agreement to legalize public finances. Let us just face the fact that we are in some drama that we are still paying for the value of some ground that has no value on it or whether their real worth is spent or not. Hence, it would have been more ambitious on the European Commission for the first thing to set up a church agreement and simply establish a new agreement with the National Church for the services requested by the Church of Nations, which reflected their special status in the National Church. A greater part of the nation is wanted to see that here is still the Lutheran Church controlling the country's translational churches, that they have a special position and special support as such. There's nothing to see. It's just to work according to the laws we've put ourselves on how we conduct government government by government of public finance and that a contract like this is not temporary, but rather clear as to what demands are made to be molded in it. [[The president calls.]] It's sad to see the basics completely ignored.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u45	Mr. President. It is in itself the end of this discussion that has been wonderful. There are two things that have come out of my mind that those who have horns in the account have brought forward. In the first place, it is supposed to lead the National Church, which is not at hand but is being paid a price to the Church for the property they returned to the State at the time. I've considered it earlier in a speech that I believe that the value laid out in that contract has shown in a thorough way the supreme position of the state towards the church when it was made, but the price given has been felt high compared to the value set in the contract of its time. It is sanctified, as I say, because at the time of the government's writing, the value of the earth was highly esteemed. I think that everyone who comes near a funeral store would agree that there the state loaded the church enormously. I believe talking about the church having some advantage over other religions is empty matter. The question was raised yesterday in the discussion of what possessions other religions, often mentioned in comparison, would have paid the State in order to obtain a price in the way that the Church receives it. Something else especially caught my attention in the conversation here yesterday, i.e. At the right time. Congress officials spoke extensively about what service the State would receive for this agreement. I couldn't help overhearing that there were people down there. Congress officials would agree that a service agreement should be made with the National Church. I don't know, Mr. President, if it should be at the hand of the Kingdom Hall, because it could be read between the lines that the Church and the State might be cleared by agreements where the agreement was concluded that there would be 1,500 baptisms, 2,000 squares, several hundred weddings, and perhaps a couple of 1,000 diggers. This could have a sense of entertainment if it wasn't so far out of control with all reality. Of course, this contract, which is an appendix agreement with an earlier agreement, must be discussed. That's why, Mr. President, it's so bad that this deal should come into this council so soon before Christmas break that it's not a good idea to discuss this matter altogether. However, I have to say that the debate that has already taken place, and the answers and answers to false answers that have been made, surely, have led to a view of how this contract is made, why it is being made, what importance the Church is, both now and in the future, that the alleged advantage that has been discussed, in fact, does not really exist, how the church has been alert to protect itself against the need to do its work properly, e.g. child work in Reykjavík, and more may be picked up. After all, Mr. President, I feel that this discussion has given me quite a sense of light on this subject, and it will no doubt help us with our continued progress, even though we had accepted more time to win it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u46	Mr. President. It's getting shorter at one end of this 1. ... butbefore it's over, I wanted to use this opportunity, in my second speech, to button some of the points that were all over here yesterday, as well as the point to consider in the Committee's work on this change. What I wanted to do first is that all - time contact between state and rural society, where last day's discussion was largely about whether annual payments on the basis of the church meeting were out of control or not, fair or not at all. After yesterday's discussion, I think it was obvious to most people who know the matter well that the annual pay of the state funds for the church, which I prefer to consider as a interest payment against the ossuary that has never been paid of anything in the form of the church's land supply, is very modest if we look at the actual underlying value of what was originally given. Nor must anyone forget the things involved in history, i.e. that part of the church meeting was done in 1997 was the fact that the state funds had rolled over these church belongings as if they belonged to the previous decades. In effect, the situation began to sour as far as the church's land is concerned from the second war. Justice ministers, and I suppose it is also appropriate to name a minister of finance, seemed to have the church meeting view this as a possession of the State. There are many examples of playing cards being sold from church lands. Then we can think of the value of 90% of the country under Aclinville today; all the land on which the city's citizens stand; and then all over the country. In many parts of the world, an old church site has its home. Central park, I think it's safe to say. Also, business with these earths and sales is needed for someone I might better fit in with in my talk at 2 Timothy 3: 1. Um... after the case comes back from the committee. This is a story that must be maintained in this context when each senator gets up and down. Pirata's members eagerly try to claim that this story is of no importance, that it has just fallen from the sky, the payments to the church from the State, and forgotten what has happened before. In this context, people try to link things in such a way that they are in violation of religious equality, as well as their lifestyles by incident, the relationship between state and church. Of course, that is completely absurd. As I spoke in my speech yesterday, I don't know that, for example, I do not know that either civil or Vanity has ever given anything to the State. Naturally, then, there is no price. We must have the wisdom to talk about these things as they are, not in some imaginary reality that seems to be primarily based on taking a minimum of history and how these matters really developed. This is the list of those who want to, by all means, undermine the Icelandic Church. I think, because yesterday's debate was a big deal about who the capital of the church's contribution was, that if it comes to full separation, it must be prepared to go to the level of worth of all the land and all the countries delivered by the church to pay the full price.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u47	Mr. President. I would like to remember the first talk to put the matter in a temporary context, i.e. why we have come here in this discussion, thus demonstrating how ridiculous it is that something is wrong with the payment of the case and how surreal it is not time to discuss the matter as necessary. The lateness of the issue illustrates even more clearly the true nature of the time line in the whole matter. In view of this, I'd like to quote only in the final part of Orri Freyr Rúnarsson's final project to the U.S. political degree by permission of the President: ▪ The first general law on the Icelandic Church, the law of No. 78/1997 of church positions, administration, and practices were set up after the proposed church committee in 1993. The committee had been given the task of generating a plan for the first general law on the Church of Nations, its legal status, its employees, and its administrative structure. The committee was also assigned to discuss the key elements of church activities, administration as well as congregations. The committee took a good deal of the tributary of the state's administration, but within the church, the legislation (Current Council and any other church government, to name the bishop of Iceland) and the judicious authority (Curriment Committee). It should be noted that the general courts, of course, have a judgment story in affairs related to the National Church when national law is broken. However, the Court's decision and appeal committee will address suspected offenses and controversies within the church, matters that are not heard under general courts. The Bishop of Iceland supervises the internal affairs of the National Church and promotes conflict. At the same time, he can resort to instruments are laws and church tradition permits. And continued in section 6.1 on Christianity: THE Christian faith in Iceland almost goes back to land. Iceland was thought to have been studied about 870, and Christianity took place in 1000 C.E. Although some have been from Scotland and Ireland, most settlers were Norwegian. There is little evidence of the religious beliefs of settlers, but Norway was known to be a common country. Most likely, though, it was God - given in the minds of land miners, some of whom dedicated their inheritance to gods and built temples. At Generalis's establishment, 930 C.E., 36 myths were decided to be in the country. The sources of paganism in Iceland during the land mines indicate that Þór was the most worshiped country, while Freyr, Njörður, Óðinn, and Freyja were also involved. And continue in section 6.2 regarding missionary activity in Iceland: ▪ In Ólafur C.E., Tryggvason became King of Norway. He came to know Christianity early in the days of a man named Þangbrandur, who went to Ireland to get baptized in the Christian faith. After Ólafur gained power in Norway, he became ambitious over the Christian monarchy and for that purpose sent missionaries to Iceland. Yet, the first mission of missionaries to Iceland was not very effective, which surprised the king and provoked him to anger. So he arranged to send another en route with Hojalta the Hjalti of Skeggjason and the hvítur Gissur. Their goal was to get the Allied Council to adopt Christianity in Iceland in 1000 C.E. When they arrived in the country, they set out to gather members who had already adopted Christianity and went to Þingval, hoping to reach it before the assembly began. On the United States Hall, a group of pagans could be found, but the fact that the groups had not come into conflict between groups grew a little character during a council that ended with the two groups speaking out of law against each other. The Christian group asked one of their leaders, Hallur Þorsteinsson, to write a new law for the group, but Hallur prayed about it and made a deal with Ljósvetningagoði Lightmaker to write laws for all the people of the land, Christians as pagan. In a somewhat unexpected way, Þorgeir lay under the coat and stayed there while thinking his case. After considering the matter, Þorgeir called a lawyer and gave a talk there. The talk stated that it would be unwise to have two laws in the country, so it would be important to have only one religion and one law in Iceland. Þorgeir then spoke up about his decision and told the United States that Christianity was to be adopted by Iceland and that men should get baptized. Yet, in order to meet the pagans, it was permitted to engage in child abuse and horse flesh as well as in secret swearing. With this decision in Ljósvetningagoði's Photography, over a thousand years of Christian faith began in Iceland, but Christianity has remained a State religion down to today. Regarding the first years of Christianity, see section 6.3: ▪ After Ólafur's Tryggvason in 1000 C.E., Norwegians in many respects returned to paganity. Here, however, the trend developed elsewhere, and as the years passed, Christianity grew in Iceland. The Christian view of life soon began to shape people and affect society's laws and rules. Soon, the terms that Þorgeir of Ljósvetningagoði - Avengers no longer applied and that children were forbidden to be carried out. The baptism of newborn babies was required, and instruction was given to keep the Sabbath sacred and for burial in cemeteries. These Christian values were violated by severe punishment. Despite the fact that the nation was a Christian, however, the lack of church stock was dependent on the Christian faith in this country. Organizational ritualism was unknown, the clergy were few, little instruction on the faith, and especially a few churches. This, however, would result in a change. This period has often been called a period of time during the mythological Church. The gods that had sat at the General Assembly held their seats and continued to rule the country. They had a special relationship with the church. The gods treated Christianity well, building churches on their soil, and some were making a success of it. On the contrary, there was much cooperation between secular authority and church authority. Thus, Christian faith quickly had a tremendous impact on the social and social life of the Icelanders. At that time, there was no natural government, but the gods ruled the country and made decisions that affected the entire population of Iceland. The gods began to protect the Christian Church after the conversion of 1000 C.E., and it can be claimed that a strong bond developed between Church and State at the outset. Despite the dramatic change, bonds that have remained to this day. For possession of churches, see section 6.4: In the centuries that followed Christianity, there was a conflict between the church and the king. It was difficult to define the threshold between spiritual and worldly power, and there could be a conflict when national law and church law were incompatible. Then there was debated the possession of churches and their possessions. Mr. President. Here's where my quote ends for a while. The reason I am careful to cite Orri Freyr Rúnarsson's final project in political science, in the Icelandic part of that project, is not to kill the case inexorably but to make it clear, as I turned to the beginning of my speech, how long it is, the history of government and church relations. We have a year of 870. Now, just before Christmas in 2019 C.E., we are experiencing such an urgent need for minutes in a history of hundreds and thousands of years. With President's permission, I would like to quote in the recent essay: A church could not be an automaton. The one who established and built a church on his earth was thus the owner of the church. The landowner was obliged to deposit money to the church and ensure public access to Mass. The reward of the earth owner was the church's tax freedom. At the turn of the century, this attitude changed. Farmers were increasingly acknowledging that the churches were not the property of humans but the property of God, depending on the size of the church and its property, whether it was under the protection of a church farmer or was an independent institution of right and duty to his congregation. We get more dates, Mr. President, and we here may be best acquainted with the last part of history, i.e. The last years and decades. The fact is, such issues are inherently time - consuming. I have no doubt that the men I have read up, Þorgeir Ljósvetningagoði and others, would understand today as we discuss these important issues why we are rushing like this. However, I would like to guess, even though I don't like it and believe it is important how late it is, and I also think it is reprehensible that we are not given the time that such a matter is natural to be treated in Congress, that I think the matter is essentially good. So I'm all for the basics, end the matter in itself in basics, maybe not very complicated. However, it requires a natural contemporaneous treatment, that it be accepted within the council at a reasonable time. Although I like the matter and support it, I find the method of doing rudely, to my point. The need for better work at the High Council is endless, but that will not happen. It's going to go on, it's gonna go on like this year after year. A case always comes in at the last minute, and that is, by nature, unacceptable. As I said, Mr. President, I like the case, and I assume I support it. But once again, I call for a normal contingency. I'm calling for better work. I call for better timing, and I think that most of the people who share with me in this council hall must agree that we want to get out of the environment of being always in some mode at the finish line. I'm going to make this work for a while, Mr. President, but at the same time I'll say I'm okay with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u48	Mr. President. Thank you for an excellent piece of history for what? Senator, it's nice to have this tour, and it's especially nice to finally hear a middle class member express clearly how he feels about the bill. I must have felt it was missing. I've heard many fine talks, but I haven't heard them until now. I'd like to curious about some historical points from the bottom of my head. In a broad sense, a senator speaks a lot about Christianity and the history of the National Church. The Church was not a national church as we know it today until it was actually after the Reformation, and even later if we talked about the legal chimney or the phenomenon we have today. Then I'll have a question to ask -- I don't know if this is a mean question. A senator can agree with the historical explanation that in the Reformation where Catholic Church's property was actually confiscated and transferred to the modern Church, whether this would be considered as a possession rise in some sense from the Catholic Church as his natural home in the Vatican. That's one test. There is another matter about the idea that the churches are God's property, whether or not. A senator had read about the judgment of the Supreme Court in India that fell about two months ago, in which a dispute was determined against the Hindu temple, whether it was the temple of Ganesha, and then the Moriscos. [[The president calls.]] The issue was about whether the god involved owned the land before the moan was built. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u49	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy for warm words to me at the beginning of the counter-sponsor. Yes, I declared my opinion of the case in a relatively frank manner. I think I actually, although he wasn't really asking about it, he did it for most of the times I've been standing in this pit and playing very little games when I've come up here. Regarding the question of property uptake in connection with the Reformation and then the conversion, when we moved from this Catholic Church to the Evangelical Lutheran Church, whether there was a possession of property, I prefer to think of it as a Reformation, that it was more social change. We weren't moving property, we might have been rebaptizing it, I think more. But the original thing to do was to me. A senator, though, asked me if I had recently been studying a sentence in India. I'm not going to play any more games in this answer than in the other, and I'll just answer the senator frankly: no, no. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy, I don't know this case and I never heard of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u50	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer, it was pretty honest. The reason I mention this case in India - apart from the fact that it was a big issue there and brought up world attention because it's an issue that had gone on since 1988, if I don't forget, and also that the judgment contained a solution to a particular debate that was to be traced back to the Mahal period, about 1600, which is about the time of the Reformation. In an effort to put this into context, at the limited time I have here, I feel that this radical change in the Reformation must involve some sense of property uptake from the Catholic Church because it came from that stock. Then you ask: " Should it have been paid to the Vatican in Rome or whatever property it is? ' Well, maybe not. Actually, I agree with what. A senator that this was, in fact, a social change and even a certain revolution, is not usually paid for a revolution afterwards. Nevertheless, all of this fits into this context about the time when big changes in community shapes demand that an old debt be canceled. Now, in this discussion, we have talked about whether the churches have been fully spent and I think that there is absolutely reason to believe that the separation of state and church is a pretty big revolution, and maybe it has already been paid for those assets, regardless of prices, just from the social revolution we are facing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u51	Mr. President. In itself, I can't react to these Indian friends. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr in a greater or deeper way than I did earlier in this brief statement: No, it's just a case I don't know. But maybe there's a question. Still, a senator gave me the motivation to study the matter, and I do. Of course, it is an interesting fact that there is a year together that is being discussed in the judgment at the same time as we as a nation are going through a Reformation. As mentioned in my case at the outset, for a discussion. A senator on property recordings was common when churches were owned by so - called church farmers. In itself, there is no more word than a church farmer was the farmer who built a church on his ground, so that if something is, the question really gets even more complicated. Were we then taking over property from individuals as well? I don't know if this question is true. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr calls for me to just come back to a talk after sitting at the computer for a while. I'm obviously going to have to go deeper into this party because I just didn't have a clue about anything, but I'm lying to those Indian friends.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u52	V.E.G. President. In the beginning, I'd like to say that with this Indian thing, I'm more of a slide than a sledgehammer. paritaprevir It's Sigmundsson, who was here on the talk chair. Here we discuss a relatively simple matter in itself. Of course, there have been other discussions about church matters that are not strange. This is a matter that is primarily to be paid for the changes that have taken place between the church and the State during the past few years. There is a fundamental basis for an agreement and a statement in September of that year. It's taking the first step to validate it, if I get it right, with this bill here. This is a change in job vows and a greater responsibility for the work and their administration to the church than has been. They are taking out the words of officials, priesthood, and the like, bringing in new words that describe even more fully the church's services. They speak of priestly services instead of priestly reforms, etc. At the same time, it is mentioned who is in charge of the job, and it is given a fine article in the bill. The report shows the origin of this bill, that history is considered fine in terms of the autumn additional agreement and is rooted in earlier contracts from 1997/1998. In fact, if this is approved, the contract will expire in 1998, if I get it right. The objective of this additional contract, which lays the groundwork for the bill, is to simplify the development of the financial support of the state of the State against the State. In effect, the State is fulfilling its obligation under the contract and in accordance with the constitution of 62rd. that there should be a national church, the Evangelical Lutheran Church, and that the state should support and protect it, as it is said. No doubt, we can ask ourselves, " What exactly is this population? ' However, it is clear from the meeting laws that have been made that the Church's position should be guaranteed in such a way that it can perform and care for its assigned tasks. Like I said, the bill is no complicated, and not many articles. On page 18. 5 The bill lists the main points and the current consultations that have been made. For the sake of their nature, the Council has been primarily at the National Church, where the agreement has been concluded or concluded. In itself, it is a natural continuation of all of it. At the same time, it has been stated in the discussion, especially on the part of a minister, that this is one step by many steps that must be taken to follow - I hope that I am not speaking to ministers - the development that needs to take place in the relations of the State and the church. It'll be interesting to watch that. Also, the minister has not concealed that the minister believes that the separation has to be greater, clearer, and complete, if I have understood her words correctly. We do not agree on going that way, and I simply doubt that there is a very broad support for it, but it will be revealed in due time. It's one of the things that everyone has opinions about, which is normal and of course.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u53	V.E.G. President. I come up here for the second time and I want to go straight to this bill. As we have seen, it is not far or complex, as we learned here yesterday that it has been working very long to create a more precise, clearer frame around the Church. It seems to be the product of part of that work, I think. It has been observed that a certain contract was signed at the beginning of September. Which, in fact, turns to the churches and remunerations of priests, is simple and may even be sharpening a bit of technology. But I'd also like to say again and again that it's a little bad what's going on late and really bad, too, how fast we're going to finish a discussion about it. Of course, many would like to appear before the committee that will handle the matter and also have the opportunity to provide details in the form of a review. How grateful it would be if we could get the time needed to go through that work! It is clear that there is a need for these legal procedures, there is no doubt in my mind about that. We're here on the so-called 1st. The point is, we're in the first step of feeling what all this means. To me, this is often the case in 1st. You start putting yourself in it. Then the matter goes to a committee, where time will be available for visitors to discuss the subject, and then it will be 2nd. It is true that the members of the National Church no longer become public employees but become members of the church themselves. I feel that this is a great improvement. In fact, I am convinced that the clergy and the church are happy to go that way, for I see that they have been consulted. If what is right here was said yesterday that this work took place for several years, it will strengthen my confidence that what is being done here is well. Here's what we got. Councilmen go through changing wording. Instead of speaking of government officials, they become the employees of the National Church, and it is probably the right spirit today to use it further. Another good thing is that this is in full harmony with constitution and international commitments, and I really hope that we will not interfere with the arrangement of the constitution. It has also been observed that there are some income stocks outside the so - called parishes that people need to pay, such as the church's services, or services. at baptisms and bar mitzvahs, and so on. Whether it is right in the way we seem to be taking it here is likely to be considered, whether it should explain all of this in a much better way. And I'm a little bit at the point where you might even be discussing it, especially since we're growing financial independence from the National Church. It will even benefit us to discuss how we will continue. There's one thing we haven't talked about here that's psychological protection. By my knowledge, she's not for one of the special fees. - Now I see we're out of time, so it's gonna have to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u54	Mr. President. There has been plenty of discussions about this subject that are understandable. This is a very important matter, a turning point in relations between State and church. Without any criticism of any individual person's language, I feel that in some ways the discussion has gone out in ways that are out of reach. It has, for example. The law on public financial matters is greatly remedied. People have been around them in various ways since their appointment to this day. To my mind, it is not quite a matter of conversation between Church and State based on centuries - old history based on laws of only a few years of history and the implementation of it is in some respects still in the shape of very important materials. As everyone should know, Mr. President, existed for centuries under the church's services. This is true either of the general priestly services, the services of the poor, the indiscretions, and the services given by schools in the Sales and in the Hóls for centuries. It was the church scene, the land of the church, that survived all of this. We are talking about modern - day school systems and welfare systems. It is the church's land that, for centuries, reflects this activity in the country. It began early, and it is attributed to the Commonwealth of the Commonwealth that in the Commonwealth, princes, property, and the rest of the well - established people, significant property to the church so that it had ground and ground for service. When the church's advancement in the 13th century, as it will be known, it is a requirement for custody of the church. This led to a great conflict between Church and Prince, which ended with the reconciliation of Aggetsnes, Norway, in 1297, through the king of Norway. As a result, church authority grew strong. It is absolutely necessary, Mr. President, that men have this long history. There's a reason why I'm talking about things like they're after land mines and during a democracy, even after it's over. Then, naturally, we are closer to a time of great magnitude. It's the delivery of the 1907 churches, that's the 1997 church meeting, and now this crucial milestone being being carried out. It may be well to mention that these churches were often divided into four main classes. It is church property that was owned by individual churches and was used to finance the pay of parish priests. Then, it is the thrones that were owned by the bishops in the Palaes and in the Hólars, under the operation of the bishops, schools, and other factors that involved this magnificent position. Then it was the Christian treasure, the earth given to Jesús Kristur for the upkeep of the poor. Finally, it was the property of monasteries. Of course, they know that by the Reformation, all of this would become more and less a king. He took possession of the monasteries and after the diocese subjugation and united as a single member of the bishop of Iceland in Reykjavík, about 1800 C.E., disappeared the thrones of the Dana king's Kingdom Hall. Mr. President. It is vital that we keep this story in mind and discuss it when we are discussing this important matter that we now discuss. This case has a long history, long, and deep background with the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u55	Mr. President. After this fine discussion, I have come to understand the subject carefully and can say that despite the fact that there are some things I think I need to look more closely at in the context of the committee, I think I will be able to support it. Still, there are still questions I raised in my first speech that I just wanted to take a short time to recall because I have not yet received answers from the highest level. Minister of Justice, except for some reason, these questions have not been answered for 22 years since the church meetings were held. Now is the time to get a final answer to them. The questions are: What fields were those that fell under the church meeting? How important were they to be buried at the time of the contract? What has been paid to bury so far? And then perhaps the political question: When will the government of Iceland look at these lands as paying for them? What requirements must be met if this is to be done? These are simple questions, but for some reason answers have been available. It has been asked many times, desperately asking who the ground was. I know it's not directly related to the subject of the bill, but when we're breaking up the National Church and State in a way that's being done now in small steps, it's time for this to end.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u56	Mr. President. Hv. A senator who came here last out of a pita has given a lot of thought to this subject, and I may consider two points I would like to leave him behind, which is: I notice that in his case, he puts high value on these assets and when may it be considered as a reasonable amount for the property that moved from the church to the State in two courses, 1907 and 1997. In this connection, I want to ask why. A senator makes a point not only to discuss the subject on the basis of accounting, accounting, prices, and projects that are called to experts in accounting or review, accounting and value of property and so on, but to what view. A senator looks at the meaning of the long story behind it, and I only had time to handle the two talks I've handled with the 1st issue. We have had 15 minutes in the first talk and five minutes in the second talk. I have endeavored to emphasize the most historic aspect, and I would like to ask. A senator will consider what he has in mind when discussing this. I now express delight in the fact that I didn't hear any better than he had upstairs at least. Some kind of plan to even support this bill, and I hope he will, and it will be a blessing to him.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u57	Mr. President. Yes, I have stressed the accounting part or the merit factor, and perhaps not least that we know just what the earth is talking about because I think it really is the most important thing in the context of the church meeting when we discuss it here at the council. Of course, there is an important cultural aspect behind which I loved to listen to a talk. A local senator was well - versed in history, the history of church arrangements, and the Christian faith in Iceland. I actually think it's important, but I don't feel that this conversation is necessarily something to be done because we're talking about an agreement between a religion and a state that needs to be resolved. I might watch a little squarely. But I'd like to make sure. A senator that I do not underestimate the cultural importance of the National Church, as it were. I am very interested in religion, and I have attended many religious ceremonies in this year, including those of the United States. with Christians and Hindus and others, so I feel that they are important, but they may still be out of the discussion today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u58	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for his answers, and I appreciate them. I appreciate such a stand that involves an open mind, a searchful mind. That's a good thing. Hv. A senator recognizes the importance of the aspect that I highlighted, especially earlier today, and that is well. That is of this great story, and if one is going to perform the practice in accounting and accounting and reexamination that seems to be a subject of great concern. In many areas, members of the body need to be viewed. There must be at least a look. well back in time and look at things in the historical light. It is as much a part of the science I was referring to earlier and more finer abnormalities in accounting and revision. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u59	Mr. President. We will always have to be careful about our cultural and cultural heritage. Although I am not a Christian myself, this heritage is very important to me and it is important that we keep it properly. I would say, however, that what I see in this bill is that here I am giving the Church an opportunity to be more independent, to stand equal to other religions. I think it's an important step because it is also a correction of a certain mistake that has taken place, a change of historical value. On the contrary, we should not pretend that it never happened. But in any case, we must show a measure of respect in order to resolve these matters effectively so that all will act wisely.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u60	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator who is happy to hear it. paritaprevir Here, a Smári Mccarthy describes in a speaker's hand, if I have understood him correctly, a positive attitude toward the key point under consideration. We're gonna go for a second. A senator had a place to say before, where we traveled quite widely. These included the 1600's talk period because of the so - called Indian court I had to admit that I didn't know well and really knew anything. The situation is similar to that of the Reformation. I'd like to pray for a second. A senator, if he is willing to answer, to explain more fully to me what was about to happen. What was the subject of the judgment that occurred there? In what way does that count? A senator that there may be some parallel, i.e. something we could look to weigh what we are so much about here again?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u61	Mr. President. This is the first time I've been asked to swerve an Indian Supreme Court judge in a peninsula, so I just need to think. It was about the year 1992 that there were riots around the mosque, several hundred miles from New Deli. During the riots, about 2,000 people, like me, died, and the Moriscos, about 460 years old, was destroyed. The reason for the riots is associated with a great dispute between Hindu and Muslim in India at that time and especially because this mosque had been built at the time of the first Emperor of the Mugula Empire in a place that was said to have been the birthplace of Ram, one of the ancestral figures of the Vishnu Vishnu. So I was wrong earlier about what god was talking about, but I've only come to mind. The relationship with Iceland was, in fact, primarily with a speech at the time. A senator and the question about whether a god could own land and churches and other things. This is a question that has often occurred throughout history, both here and anywhere else. As far as I know, God has no social security number. It is very difficult to perform legalizations and e.g. Require God to pay taxes, real estate, and so on. So this question becomes very perplexing in the context of the question. A senator was talking about and maybe nothing necessarily in relation to this case, but just out of such a philosophy I thought this was interesting, and that's why I brought it up. Yet, the connection with the deliberation of property from the Catholic Church in connection with the Reformation was of great interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u62	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for a relatively clear answer and an explanation of this Indian friend. Maybe I should have used my time a little bit better earlier. I realized, when I left a pit, that I was still on green and that I might have come up with another question that I wanted to ask you. A senator, too. This so - called remuneration for church property has now been discussed much, what is a suitable and normal price. It has been followed by a debate of interest. But what I may be most curious about -- this way, in view of the fact that the senator is interested in all religions and all the customs and the translocations and the names of all of these, the interest seems to be equal everywhere - is this: what thinks. A senator's claim that there is a suitable price for these assets?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u63	Mr. President. I realized that I forgot to relate the results of the sentence. The court simply decided that the land where the moss had been standing before 1992 should be moved to a fund in the Hindu hands of the region. It was controversial, and this is a very interesting subject. But as far as the prices are concerned, as far as I'm concerned, no final list of all items has ever been made available. But the best approach was in fact 1992, just in a church committee report. This report said that the credit rate was about 1 billion, just over that. I think it's probably a lot of underestimate, but I don't have any grounds. Until we get better numbers, I have to say just over a billion, plus natural compensations and other things.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u64	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's talk, and now this is the 1st. to finish. I'm happy for that, and I agree with that. A senator when he said earlier that it was an important step to make this arrangement, and I love to hear it from him. Hv. A senator also stated that it is important to approach this discussion respectfully, and I am also grateful to him for this because I wholeheartedly agree with him in that regard. But I must say that some of his Pirata's associates have not, in my opinion, approached this matter with sufficient respect and use of wording that I consider inappropriate in the discussion, but I'm not going to go further into it. We know that the service the church provides in the churches of the country is of great importance to many. We know times of quiet and prayer, and people can search for priests at all times, get help, mental security, etc. This service is free of charge to the Icelanders throughout the country. In times of turmoil in people's lives, it is important to have someone to talk to, as we know, and the priests have rendered such service. There are many studies that are being offered, and the church's family service provides a very important help in this country. Then we have the role of the church, the hospital priests, the help with refugees, etc. I want to ask you why. A senator: Does this not seem important to him when he has, especially on Porta's part, is about the financial aspect, that the government has put this much money outside the Earth that the Pirates feel is not worth enough? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u65	Mr. President. True, it is important that people have access to psychological assistance when needed. I mean, it would be nice if that psychological assistance were actually psychological rather than theological. I figure that the Church of America gets more than 3 billion dollars a year, and I wondered if it would be possible to get psychologists into the country's high school, psychologists into the country's hospital, and to offer a hell of a good psychological service for those who need it. This would have the advantage beyond the psychological care of priests to be based on scientific rather than theological grounds and to be of the nature of people, such as me, who are not part of any religion, may not believe the basic identification, so it would still be useful to take advantage of that service. I have once benefited from the psychological care of a minister, and she was very good. But when compared with the expertise that has been present by psychologists, I think it just isn't as good because this role is different. That's really what I think to say about it. We must realize that this type of secular service is far more acceptable today than it is today, and perhaps more natural, that we give money and that it works diligently in that category because it does not contribute to the growth of psychological services that are more common and accessible than it is today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u66	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator and I express my joy that he has visited the church in this way and had a good time. We must bear in mind this in mind that very many in the Church who are doing these jobs are well educated in this area, have special education in family counseling, mental health care, and so on, in the clergy hospital services, etc. and there, caring for very important and difficult work. In my opinion, this is not to be overlooked during the discussion, but it is very important that this is being maintained because some people's case, especially Pirata, is in my opinion, and now I'm not saying it's appropriate. A senator, be determined that all church services are actually secondary, this cultural role that it has. [[Foreground on: No.]] You are always focusing on some amounts, that this is not in agreement with public financial laws, etc. but a very important ministry is being performed. [[The president calls.]] We must not forget that, Mr. President, and I believe it is the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u67	Mr. President. This is an important service. This is to be an important secular service, not theological, and the importance of the service is independent of the fact that here is this evil agreement that is about an infinite amount of money to the Congregation over an infinite period of time. This is one of the six non - time contracts that the State has, but the other five are better. We must also keep in mind that this is so. A senator somehow experiences some form of rudeness that we disagree with the church meeting, disagrees with the fact that the church should receive an endless supply of money for eternity, is not objecting to the National Church, but is critical that the church is far more stable than anyone else, just on the basis of historical explanation. We have called only for the guidance of reasonableness, and then, of course, that we are trying to provide the type of service that must be rendered in a secular form so that everyone can have the truthfulness of it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u68	Mr. President. In my first talk on this subject today, I sought to shed light on the timeline, on history, and on the reason that we have this rich need to discuss carefully all matters involving our organization and especially when it comes to the role of the National Church in that organization. In my efforts, I quoted Orri Freyr Rúnarsson's final project to the U.S. political degree and was primarily designed to demonstrate in a figurative way all these years, in order to receive a graphic vision of it and a graphic idea of how immensely long the molding of this command has taken. So we failed. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy in a fun way and out of it became an interesting moment and, with the permission of a president, I would like to repeat it, though only to a very insignificant extent. Again, I quote this same essay, which may be said to be a new course discussed, by permission of a president: ▪ This new direction was well criticized by communists who viewed the Allied Party as a betrayal of promises by not fighting against religion. Þórhallur's policy of the state - and - church relationship had a profound effect on the future relationships between Church and State. In order to ensure the independence of the Church of America, political views soon changed from policying in order to protect the relationship. The reason for these changes was that the tribes wanted to keep in touch with the nation's history and culture, but in addition to this, it was extremely practical for the State to maintain this relationship, thereby keeping in touch with the church's government. The clergy'image and their territory have made significant changes with changing emphasis on society. At the beginning of the last century, general priesthood elections were held, and their goal was to bring the Church's government from the State to the people, thus promoting the church as a democratic organization. Many priests were unhappy with this arrangement, and as the years passed, they were allowed to maintain a growing dissatisfaction. In 1987 the Generalate passed a law on priests' elections, which took place in the same year, but the law did little to extinguish dissatisfactions. Thus it could be said that reconciliation was not achieved until 1999 when law was passed on to appoint five members of the parish priests at each pastor's call, along with a member of the consecration and testimonials. So says the office of Iceland's bishops and the church's direct order that the bishops of Iceland have a variety of jobs, and a strong connection between state and church is clearly seen in his work. This is the nature of the case, according to the second talk of a much shorter introduction and the closing of this discussion. But the main purpose of both this speech and the first talk, which led to this exchange between me and my circumstances. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr, was putting more light on the fact that history tells us that in this series, people have always rushed slowly. Therefore, I would feel that such cases should come into the council sooner, men would have more time and not be put under any pressure, for as soon as I follow this passage, people have taken a considerable amount of time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u69	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the history index and the timelines because it matters in this context. I wanted to attract attention. A senator's opinion of a church property committee published in 1984 is just an enormous review of history, especially from the Reformation, and the history of these churches. That's where even the two of them come from. until the land of which the Church itself is thought to be a legal owner as a special institution, there are only two, i.e. A collection in Aarnes County, which the State granted to the National Church by permission of law No. 32/1963, and Longamber, in Thegfur, who had been given to the National Church some years earlier, 1984. The rest, in fact, are Congregational churches around the country. In the Reformation, the King takes over everything, and the state is king, and all of this is extremely complex, and so on. The church property committee then traces them, after the Reformation, and after all of this was gathered to one hand, whatever property the king received from the church, and the committee ends up with this 350 - page list of possessions that were not truly prepared to sell from the church. In fact, that list, very convincing, is what rests on the church meeting after all. When people are pointing to 25% of the country, etc. it can't resist. It's been taken care of. This list is actually our best. We're supposed to have that great warrant. But what is missing in this timeline, and so this source is, in fact, an enormous amount of politics, since most members of the council at that time are farmers everywhere, who even have some access to the churches that are being discussed. That's interesting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u70	Mr. President. The discussion continues to be very informative. It is true that when large issues are under and matters that concern the basic structure of society and the fundamental order of the Church, at times members of Parliaments have allowed themselves to go completely to the edge of the matter. But first and foremost, I want to thank you. A senator for this review and this exhortation, and what took place in 1984 is significant in the overall context. That's clear. In the second answer, why not? A senator corrects me if I'm wrong, but I don't think there's really any question in this, and maybe we're just going to that part of the discussion, which may be okay, too. But I sense a positive outlook. A senator, and he can fix it again if my senses are not correct. But what impressed me most was this political approach, for of course it's politics. In nature, this is nothing but politics, all the orders of society are political. As a result, I only agree with what. A senator is certainly discussing how we choose to have our community covenants and how our foundations are and our institutions in the community. You're right next door. Senator, it's a high political thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u71	A respectable president. You see, especially during the years the church was changed, the law was accepted in 1907, that it was the peasant churches that depended on it, and the purpose was to increase the clergy's pay, and it was a political decision in the legal process. It is relevant in the context of the case we are discussing here because under these legal circumstances, where priests are being brought away from being government employees who are part of the A State to be under the National Church itself, contractually, outside the state, have an additional agreement. There's the money used to pay the pay, considering what the contract really looks like. That's why we need to discuss the additional meeting in the context of the law we have here, in which agreement the pay for the employees who are talking about moving between us. The foundation of the additional meeting is the church agreement, which in nature is settled on the ownership process, that is the proposed agreement that has somehow changed into a pay contract for this state - to - church transfer of employees. Then come up to the church meeting, just like a dog, that's exactly what it's all about. In 1907, a senator runs, down into the political bitch when the state decides to take over these assets in order to place the value of them under payment on the rise in priestly pay. The story about this is truly remarkable and high - political. That is why it all must be spoken of in this context so that we can really do so, if we are going to go to a separate state and church that is being spoken of, and that this is one of the first steps, in a clean way, leaving it without commitments in one way or another. That's why we need to talk about this in a larger context, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u72	Mr. President. It says more than many words that when I had that experience in a boy's exchange before then. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy and now what? paritaprevir Björn Leví that I thought I was developing some surface, since we would really agree to disagree about certain things, to respect them, we would likely never agree on all of these. I also thought this was becoming more objective and objective, so I'm a little picky right now, when it turns out that the discussion is about to be over, it's really going to be 8/do·yiʹiʹ, excuse, Mr. President, juicy. [[For example, consider: Infatuated.]] But there's actually one at the end. I realize that 1907 are the peasant churches, and this is being taken over as state property, etc., but we are. A senator, however, must end up having a little disagreement. I don't agree with it, and I don't agree that its main purpose was directly to increase the pay of priests. [[Up front.]] It may have been part of it, but it is not my understanding that it was the primary purpose and main course of that operation. But I will, of course, look at this again, why. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u73	Mr. President. I recommend a bill from the Economic and Business Committee for a change in the law on the registration of real owners. The bill is simple in itself, but it is suggested that in cooperation with the Ministry of Employment and Development and Justice, it was presented to the head of the state tax and the Justice Minister's staff for the defense against the money fraud and the funding of terrorism. The bill suggests that there will be an accelerated registration of information on the actual owners of the legislatures so that there should be a record of a person who is already enrolled into an enterprise file no later than March 1, 2020, instead of June 1. Using the sentence of a law on the registration of real owners included Following comments from the international work group on terrorist activities and funding, while the results of the work group's assessment, FAFF, at international level in 2017, comments were made on the access of the party's notifications to information on real owners. Since August 30, 2019, all legal agencies in the country or registered in a business file have been made available to provide information about and record their real owners and their rights to the new registration of an enterprise file. The legislators who were already enrolled into a company file have provision for temporary observance in the law until June 1, 2020, to document the information. Since December 1, 2018, lawyers have been able to register their real owners electronically on the government tax manager's web. The bill suggests that the members who are already enrolled in a company registry should provide information about real owners as defined by the law on money thefts and the funding of terrorism no later than March 1. The aim of the legislation is to document information on the actual owners of the local taxpayer's legal rights until it is assumed by the current legislation. If the bill is approved, it has already registered legislators three months to record their real owners, i.e. Compared to December 1st. and March 1st. In view of this, it will not be expected that the adjustment in the type of law would have a major burdensome effect on lawmakers. In addition, the change results in increased transparency, with information on real owners being placed earlier in an enterprise file than is currently expected. Mr. President. I suggest the case goes down to 2nd. after this 1st.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u74	A respectable president. As mentioned in the bill it's moved by the Economic and Business Committee all over, including me. It doesn't change my concern about shame in this matter. This suggests that since this law takes effect, we can say in the middle of this month, business has only two and a half months to react and complete registration. Indeed, it is a very short priority for all the underlying business life of the country. However, when the committee discussed the matter at the time, it was also possible that the registration system itself was not completed and not tested. I wonder what. A senator and head of the Economic and Business Committee has some further information on whether this system has been completed and is ready to accept these registrations or whether any delays could possibly be made on the possibility of making it difficult even at this time. This is a response to FAFF's comments, and as far as I'm concerned, the next meeting of FAFF is held in February. I wondered if the government has any assurance that if this is the case, the law will have some effect on the potential review of our being on a grey list at the February meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u75	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator's warning is certainly short. We don't have to argue about that. But I point out that all lawyers, i.e. EICs who are employed in the country and enrolled in a company record, have since August 30 had to collect this information so that men should have begun to prepare themselves. It is also clear that from December 1 onward. has been able to register actual owners electronically onto the government tax manager's web. Whether this song changes here, i.e. to speed up this obligation, influence FAFF's assessment at a meeting in February, so that we get out of the gray list, I think they're not much of a hope. I don't think this point alone is a matter of action, but it does send a very clear message to FAFF from the International Parliament and from the Icelandic government that it is working fast and well to get those things that may not have been in good condition enough, so it's clear that we don't have and should never have lived on a so-called gray list of FAFF.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u76	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Of course, each of us is racing to make sure that we make it as fast as possible from this gray list of FAFF. It is clear that despite statements about others, we are affected negatively. There is talk of, including of the bank manager, unnecessary risk, as he put it well, and also reports that this disturbs the transfers and transactions today. Hence, it is vital that we walk at a pace and safely for work and do what needs to be done. Hv. A senator said it was clear that we have no business on this list. I wondered, though, only that a report is being conducted at the world level. The Minister of Justice for the reasons why we ended up on this list is now quite clear that, in reality, we may be on the move primarily lacking trust in Icelandic government because of the lateness we had for years to respond to repeated recommendations after the previous review, not just the last one, and that we did very little while in capital goats to prepare our way out from capital seas, including taking into account the factors that turned to the comments we had received in 2006, if I recall correctly, but we kept our heads on what was needed to improve and react. The registration of real owners, as I know the defense against money fraud over the last 20 years, is absolutely fundamental in protecting against money laundering. That's why I'm a little concerned with this particular matter anyway. A senator is aware of when this was the first time he received comments from FAFF. [[The president calls.]] I am surprised that it was first done in 2017 on the record at the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u77	Mr. President. First of all, maybe the only question that ever happened. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson said: "I have to admit I don't know the answer. " However, I would be surprised if the first comments were found that there is no law on real owners in 2017. There's something in my memory that tells me it was sooner than I'm afraid to stand here and claim it was. But you're right next to what you're talking about. A senator, and we've agreed on the great work we've been working on a financial and business committee in the past two, three years changing the law and implementing new laws about money-thrusty, that we were just a little asleep in the financial crisis of years. That, of course, is critical. On the one hand, it is critical to governments, but we also have to look at ourselves, that when we were about to get rid of the capital master, we should not be thinking in a better and more efficient way of hardening laws and rules when it comes to money. We haven't bit off the needle with it, that's perfectly clear. But when I say that Iceland didn't belong on that gray list right now, I do, because when you look back and watch what you've been doing in the last two or three years, it's clear that a great deal has been done. It was very strange to have this gray list of activities, Mr. President, but perhaps they were also in preparation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u78	Mr. President. Now, FAFF meets three times a year, in February, in June, and then in October. To be free of this gray list, the so - called 48 minimum values have to be met from 2012. For 2012, another standard was 40 people approved in 1990, which included the directive that it was known who were the real owners. I'm going to have to disagree. A senator's not supposed to be on this gray list because if we don't fill these 48 criteria, we're actually meeting the only criteria for how countries get on this gray list. I'd like to ask you what. Because we are on this list and because we don't want to be there, and that we want to do good against money thefts and the funding of terrorism: Why is the requirement for real owners to be registered before February 1 so that we have definitely arranged for the next FAFF meeting to arrive at the end of that box? The promise to be ticked into this box next month is not tantamount to tickling in the box. That is not tantamount to it. These 48 standards are not that complicated; our legislation should have reached that stage, and our failure to reach that stage is, in effect, a disgrace.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u79	Mr. President. I kind of agree with what. A senator and it's no surprise to him because I think it's safe to tell it here that this came up on the Economic and Business Committee, whether it's more reasonable to aim for the 1st of February, just for these reasons. I was kind of all for it and supported it. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy in that stuff. The problem, however, was that we had warnings, including warnings. From the head of the state and from the government, that it might have gone a long way. On the one hand, it would be too burdensome to move this forward until March 1, and then people might not be quite ready to deal with this. One is to set a law and require that for a particular date, everyone should have completed the law, knowing that it will not be possible, but it is otherwise to set another date, perhaps a little later than it is possible to reach and keep it. Again so it's quite clear: I'm not standing here, saying that with this bill we're gonna get off the gray list. It takes more than that. However, this is a clear message from the International Assembly of Iceland and the Icelandic government to FAFF and to other countries that we take up the business of money thefts and financing terrorism very seriously, and we intend to be involved. That's what I think matters, and that's why I'm hoping that the Allied will soon reverse this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u80	Mr. President. Now I don't know individuals within FAFF personally, and I don't know what their rules of conduct are. But I have a feeling that they are not covering a clear message. Rather, they are merely wondering if we fill these 48 requirements. If we do, I guess we'll get off this gray list. I agree that it would be better to meet the requirements, and then we have to watch the real world. The reality is that we have 30,000,900,000 companies registered in Iceland and we have an electronic portal, which may not be quite ready, but it can be accepted today and the registration of the real owners for the majority of these companies should take about four, five minutes. In fact, it is not that they have to line up but that they can do it as fast and quite quickly, thanks to computer technology. So I'm not better than we could actually deliver 99% of these companies by noon tomorrow, if that was the case. Delaying until February 1 is a reasonable delay, sufficient time, even for these very few companies, where it is really complicated to pick up who are the real owners. They may even be the ones that this is about most. I say here that I think there's good reason to change this. I'll make some adjustments if others don't and I'd like us to do it together, a suggestion to change the date of February 1 so that we'll be just more confident that we've met the 48 criteria before February 1, because this is not the big thing people want to mean. I understand that people want to go slow and not have things too burdensome. But we're talking about four, five minutes' work for each company in the country, to a maximum. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u81	Mr. President. There's one thing I'm not going to do, that's to argue with why. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy about information technology or computer technology over the head because I know it's gonna end up panicking. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'm just saying that I think it's a good form of moderation in considering March 1st. I agreed to that view. On the other hand, I can see why. Senator. I don't object to them, but these are burdensome ordinances. Of course, we are making the date about three months. I also say again, don't accept this bill in the belief that by getting Iceland off the gray list in February. If we're realistic, we can't figure it out, even though we moved it to January 1 and did other things in the meantime, that we got off the grey list in February. I don't think it'll be until next year, possibly at a meeting of two with FAFF. But if that happens in February, I'll be the happiest. Of course, it's possible, but no one can stand here in this chair claiming that there are good odds of Iceland getting off the grey list in February. Then there are expectations that are not realistic.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u82	Mr. President. The Bahamas, Botswana, Cambodia, Ghana, Mongolia, Panama, Pakistan, Syria, Trinidad, Tobago, Yemen, and Zimbwe are the countries of the gray list FAFF as well as Iceland. These are all countries that have earned the advantage of being on this gray list in one way or another and usually in the exact way that Iceland did not meet the 48 requirements of the 2012 FAFF not to be on this gray list. We're what they call uncooperative land. Is that final judgment? Is that something we can come back from? Yes, absolutely, and many countries have. But let us take this seriously because it may not be so much about being or not being on the gray list, even though it is a big shame in itself, it is about much larger things that these 48 conditions are made to try to prevent. I'm gonna tore it up a little later. In order for people to see what we're talking about when we're talking about registration of real owners, these are actually four steps. First of all, a company has to be identified, i.e. to know certain things about that, social security number or registration number, address, tax-recognised, executives and the like. Two factors are found out who are the rightful owners, and they are not necessarily the ones listed for the enterprises in the company but also those who will enjoy the quality that eventually comes to the owners. There are a number of cases where individuals are appointed as managers or owners of an enterprise while some others are behind it, e.g. with retrospective retail agreements or other items that can be set up to dominate property, profit, or other resources at such times. And we also know that today the stock market in Iceland is only one day a year. Every other day, those who are registered stock owners may not be real. That these items are updated in real time is a requirement for the record to be authentic. To have it only right once a year means that all the other days of the year can be moving back and forth without truly knowing who is the right owners. A third factor is that the interactive possession must be calculated. Then we're talking about if Jón has a share in company A, which is involved in company B, but he also has a direct property share in company B, it needs to be calculated by certain share rules. This may be quite complicated, especially when cross - borders, as is done very often to hide the paths of property directly. This is going to be very difficult when people are taking possession of their tax land, even through other countries that are not tax prevention but who do not have enough information to the local authorities. The fourth thing is what we all go through when we're opening a bank account, when we're asking for a loan, which is what's called the English AML & YC, or Anti-Myey Rewarding and Know Your Custer. This is a set of conditions for financial companies and tax authorities, and others can try to prevent money bullshit by knowing who they are talking to, the final business partner. It's not complicated. This is something we can do well. This bill requires an enterprise to record its final owners slightly earlier so that a second and a third requirement can finally be met so that it can finally be used as a legitimate control of the final owners of the enterprise in the manner required. You're wondering why we haven't done this yet. This is part of the 2012 FAFF criteria. There are earlier 1990 conditions for FAFF money bullshit that was established in 1989 if I didn't forget. Why have we not since 29 years been able to provide sound guidelines on the benefits and clear holdings and final holding of companies in this country? I don't know a clear answer to that, but this is, I think, a part of what I've previously called persistent and systematicliness towards corruption in Iceland. This has appeared to us repeatedly in the past few years. You can talk a lot about fixing these points, but talking is not enough. It's not enough to have a will declaration or send a strong message to FAFF, we really need to get this straight. Then maybe I'll find out what really matters because it's not really the big deal to be or not to be on the gray list of FAFF. The big deal is that money laundering globally is an enormous phenomenon. We're talking about, based on an assessment by Taxes Justice Network, that's about $13,000 billion a year. This is the moderate estimate of any conservative person. We're talking about $1,200 billion a year in unscheduled funding transport from so - called developing countries, just from them, just the unsaid capital transport. Then we're not talking about business equations. Even if there is something wrong with the operator, the balance is taken aside. How does this happen in real life? We could talk, for example. ... abouttheBTA Bank in Kazakhstan. There was a plot to make use of the ignorance of who were real owners to export $6 billion from the country a few years ago. Perhaps it is better to speak of an example from Ukraine that I know well, since two men who were neighbors in a small village found that one day, through my dear partner, they were each owner of over a billion dollars. Then someone had come and walked around the street to get these men to sign something, and they thought it was an assessment of land or something like that. But then a business was being set up in their name to share money in order to participate in one of the biggest money shit I've ever seen. The funds from Russia were sent through a bank in Latvia on the other hand, and the Czech Republic, through artificial corporations in Ukraine and elsewhere, to Britain, where companies were in the inexplicable finality of the same wealthy as the money began. All of this was signed and approved by courts in Moldova. It's just a crazy idea. But this happens, and in this particular case, we were watching about $120 billion over a few years. Another example is that of Azerbaijan, where British firms received mining rights on gold in the village of Chovdar. After they began mining, the spring of water in the village dried up. As a result, the villagers no longer had access to water, and they, of course, blamed the British, the people who came and began digging for gold. When further research was made, the mine permit was signed directly by the president himself, not by the mining minister. Okay, there may be a natural explanation for that. But when you checked, the British company owned a company on Mann. That company belonged to two companies in Panama. These two companies were finally registered to the president's daughters. This is a pattern that comes up over and over all over the world and we don't want to be so naive as to think this isn't happening in Iceland. We've recently talked about the Samherja case. We have often talked about a number of Icelanders who have had business in the islands of the country, Tortolas, and Cyprus, and others. We know that the Israelites are not angels rather than others for some reason, but we have been doing this in an inadequate manner for over 29 years. Of course we can fix this, and let's just remember that everything we do here in the country is no longer done in some special setting, where we can all be extremely happy with all of Iceland's productions, but in an international setting where real people are affected by money theft and property tools that are done in an illegal way. We need to know about real owners because that is actually the best way we have to keep track of tax sources and property areas that are going around the world. Remember, too, that FAFF is not formed by angels. The two countries that pressured Iceland to be put on the gray list were Britain and the United States, I understand. Both of these countries run a vast tax network. They're not directly related to them, you might say they're not registered as the real owners of these tax taxes, but that's still no big money bullshit I've seen has not gone through London. They always go through London. The British know exactly what to do, and they could handle it if they wanted to, for example. setting stricter rules against taxes, which are certainly part of the British queen's crown. But they do not, and in some way it is accepted that tax cover exists because when people are rich enough, they can, in some way, take their money to a laundry station. But that does not have to be the case. FAF is an honest attempt to stop at least some types of this illegal activity. If a country like Iceland really wants to fix what's happening in this world where it's being exploited by countries all over the world, it might be the right way to apply the countries that put us on the gray list a particular pressure on them to start cleaning up, that they may add 49. The conditions on the FAFF's conditions not to support the existence of taxes on Tortol and Catasian Islands, and elsewhere by their laws and regulations. I think it would do quite a bit of good, and it might be a much more powerful and stronger message from the General if we were to insist on it rather than just that we could, in March, swallow up one of those conditions. I said before answering what. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kállson that I would like to propose the adjustment form that we would change the date from March 1 to February 1. It's just because the next FAFF meeting is in February, we don't know exactly when or I don't have it clear. But we do know that in February the next decision will be made whether Iceland will remain on this list. I can't believe they're going to take strong messages from here as a sign. What they will do is look at this and ask: Has Iceland met these 48 requirements? If the answer is no, we'll still be on the list. It's just that simple. I suggest that the bill be accepted, but I suggest that it be approved with an update to February 1 because we don't want to, with such slowness and inactivity, to maintain the horrible misuse that is going on around the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u83	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for the speech. I've noticed his interest and many of his pals in the Piranha's careful legalization, which is a good price, and nothing wrong with it. The last spring was adopted in this hall by the 53 joint dates currently in the law, i.e. June 1st. This was accepted unrecognised by the Commission of Economic and Business Affairs to date. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy wrote right away, as I think all other members of the Economic and Business Committee have done, including the change of plans on the date that neither the senator nor anyone else made a comment to them. If you add these two things together, which say the order and motivation of Pirata's problem of legalization, because you're not trying to sort things out and suddenly change things, etc., we may have to get a little more explanation about what causes this councilman's conversion in this regard. I don't quite agree with this. It is being suggested to speed up the date for obvious reasons. There are perplexing reasons to choose the date selected, including the date selected. that in late December and January the time may not be the best time of the year for people to have such works. [[The president calls.]] Is there any reason besides the fact that the senator is stirring up dirt for this matter, which is good?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u84	Madam President. I'm reminded that at the financial and business committee discussion, I just mentioned that this could be done faster than ever. It is true that I am much interested in careful legalization, and when this was taken care of, perhaps the main point was that it would be done so that we would not necessarily delay it any further. Although I may have wanted it to be different, there was no reason to speed it up at that time, especially in view of the time we had handled it and we had received information on this threat or at least there's a chance we'd go to the gray list if we didn't take it. According to the information we had at the time, this was one of the steps we had to take so that we would not go to the gray list. All right, too, so that we did not have all the other information to do. It was clearly more, and then it was run through at zero one, just before we went to the gray list, a bill that was supposed to be the final recall. Actually, I don't know how it was handled with FAFF yet, but we have to realize that we've been told for years, for at least one year, that we need to get involved. We were given a huge amount of leeway when we were on our head, and when we had recently completed a crash in order to move on, without being used for extra repairs. Now is the patience of swelling, and I think that this date at that time is really a reason to ask ourselves: " Could we just be in some weird world where everything will be just great until the end? [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] Could we have done better? I say, " Yes, of course, I could have done better with the committee, and of course I would have a reason. ' A senator could do the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u85	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. The Senator is right, we can always do better, and we should always aim to put forth more effort. What I am thinking, however, is the key difference between March 1 and February 1, after 30 days. I could have seen it in itself, so if we had been finishing this case in the first week of December and had been spending two months to finish it, it would have been possible. It seems to me, though, that at this council today that to expect men 25 working days or so on a national scale is unnecessaryly difficult and that I don't think it's a good practice, especially in view of the fact that 28 extra days in February would change our situation. I believe only that the Icelandic Parliament shows that it can react quickly, that it can change dates like this without everything going on and without such an enormous debate in the Senate Hall, is a very clear sign to the members of the council that the senator rightly mentioned to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u86	Madam President. I can't see in itself how another 28 days will help anyone. I traced it against what. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kálmson's e - mail registration is going to take most of the companies on the country for sure only a few minutes. I can't quite tell you how many minutes, but they won't be very many. I don't think another 28 days will completely change the outcome. I think that choosing February 1 can be reasoned - it would be fun if it were a little quieter in the side room -- with a reference to, as I mentioned in my speech, that the next meeting at FAFF is in February. That's the logic support. I haven't seen any logical support for March 1 st. All I've seen is that it gives an additional 28 days for a project that takes most of the companies in the country 5 to 10 minutes to do. Sure, it'll take longer for some companies, but I don't believe it's going to take 28 days, huh? I'm sorry, Senator. I don't have so little faith in modern technology, I think I know that even the slowest computers would be less than 28 days to solve this particular problem. The point is, we're on this gray list. We don't remember--ha? [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u87	That's why we're reacting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u88	Yes, we're responding, but as far as I'm concerned, FAFF won't take some clear signals from us as acceptable results. If I understand this correctly, the 48 requirements are being met. The answer is yes or no, and if the answer is no, we'll probably still be on the list. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u89	Madam President. This is a good example of what happens when we do not take our international commitments seriously, neglecting to introduce what we have committed to the introduction and, as in this case, ignores for years. As reported in the 2006 Justice Department report on the reasons why we were exposed to this grey list of FAFF, this third assessment took place, with virtually nothing in the induction of the required improvements that are significant, until 2015. In fact, 17 follow-up reports from FAFF needed to get our attention to what was presented in 2006. We escaped a corner by landing on some sort of shame list in the fall 2015, specifically asking not to be put on such a list of promises of relief and reform, and in fact, we got out of follow-up of FAFF in the third assessment of 2016, not by confirmation that things were OK with us, but that we had probably done enough and with evidence that the fourth assessment was just about to begin. It is of interest in this particular case of real owners who are cornerstones of money-students - after working in the financial system two decades ago, the core issue was when the defense against money-thruspering that there was a record of real owners - that we were being referred to, at least From 2014 to 2015 in the follow-up of FAFF in those years, that we did not have these things okay. Still, we first set legislation on the registration of real owners now; it went into force on August 30. Now we're trying to scratch the tray, because we ended up on the gray list, with a speed of validation, a time limit set for us by about three months. I support it, but I don't think it's acceptable, so it's not fixed, that it's being given this short time, that it's only three months, or that it's just about where a company has to complete these registrations. It is important to remember that it can be quite complicated, e.g. in public communities, digging up the real owners when shareholders e.g. Foreign stock funds and registration are behind real owners there and will obtain the information needed. The point is, we ended up on the gray list because of years of neglect. The left governing of 2009-2013 did not say anything to solve the serious problems we received in the 2006 report and can, of course, say the same about the government in which we lived, the assessment comes at the end of the Independence Class and the Front Party, and then the Government of Independence and the United States. And then the government of the left green and the Convergence comes and there's nothing to do. In fact, it is not until the mid - term period of 20133/42016 during the reign of an independent party and a forward group, though something is being done. But it's in the highest report. Minister of Justice that there is still a shortage of funds to be given to the jury. It is not really working out until the fall of 2017. That's 11 years after we got this drop score from FAFF in the third assessment. In the discussion of real owners, though, when we were trying to improve this in 2015 and 2016, we refused to make sure that the basic changes had been made in FAFF's claims on the registration of real owners law in 2012 - or 2013, if I was correct. There is yet another explanation of how badly we get out of this fourth assessment that we had ignored the fundamental changes that had fallen on the demands of FAFF at that time because we were still busy meeting the requirements for improvement in the past decade's review. That's what's coming through in the top report. Minister of Justice. It paints quite a picture of this sad process all over the world. When the time came for us to make a resolution in connection with the fourth, but not yet instigated, we simply weren't religious. We were not trusted because we had repeatedly failed to fulfill our earlier promise of reform. It is the grieving reading of a fine report, of follow-up reports No. 2◯16, we can say, with repeated excuses for not implementing what has been promised after the last assessment report or follow-up report before, etc. We simply lost our credibility toward these associations, and we are suing it here. That's why I think it's quite right what was left of the highest order. The Minister of Justice recently, that we, unfortunately, need to guard against too much optimism about how fast we will be able to get off this very questionable list. Our presence on him has begun to interfere with business transactions, financial institutions and business transactions. We need to be too optimistic about how fast we are coping with it. Of course, we will not be removed from that list until we have fully completed it and prove that it is working. I think that the discussion on recent matters involving serious suspicions of Samherja's pay for bribes in Namiba and possible financial failure to those related things reflected a little bit of our attitude toward this seminary. This was repeated in the case of officials, only in connection with the autumn discussion of the danger that we ended up on this gray list, that there were no examples of money laundering here. Perhaps it is in the context of keeping in mind that, of course, money was not an isolated case here. It's a global problem. The fact that we had not exposed money was perhaps a sign of our shyness in surveillance and defense rather than a sign that it was not here to be found. Shortly after that discussion, the day comes when one of the largest companies in the country seems to be intruding into a very serious case of payoffs and possible money bullshit without our own supervision and defenses being aware of it in any way. Such complacency, carelessness, I would say, not to take our commitments to money -- to take the problem seriously, not to take it seriously, not to take it seriously, that, of course, there is a risk of such things all over the country, as we see examples of so many other places, where there is much better control, and much more defence against money theft than in this country -- of course, we are no exception. It's time for the government to end this crisis. I'm afraid, unfortunately, that we are still at that place in this category, where we are primarily in needed legal reforms, which are right to commend, though, that they have been done quite much in the past years. Still, it is somehow as if our mind is not relevant. Of course, there is still no problem here, and this may be primarily a formality to meet to relieve us of this list, and a question whether we are still providing enough money for these projects. This was reflected in the discussion that took place a few days ago in this hall when we were finishing the budget for 2020, and the Continental Department gave double suggestions on how to secure the local prosecutor's office sufficient funds for the large research that is obviously ahead of us, including. ... fortheServiceoftheService. I really hope that we can get to a place in this series of languages that our mind truly follows, not just to meet some assessment reports, but to be real willing to do well in this category and to try to root out the possible money -- and of course we're going to do it on land. Like everywhere else, organized crime is organized. Of course we know they're talking money. In fact, we know various ways, and a general knowledge is about the kind of means that are being used to get ill - equipped funds into circulation. We have no reason to expect anything other than that we can easily be victims of a global treasure. That's why it's time for us to take it, follow it seriously, and that our mind is relevant, not merely a formality, to introduce legislation, but to ensure enough funding for research, for observation, to do what we can do to root out the money-thrusts that will probably be made here. In itself, this matter is a simple, technical adjustment of the law that we passed on last spring. We're doing nothing except that the speed of the date for which a company has to complete its registration. As I said in my first speech and in return to what. The head of the Economic and Business Commission, Óli Björn Kárason, is always more comfortable with the fact that a company has enough money to get enough information and complete a record. I think there is a general vice in Icelandic legislation how fast legislation is put into force and how little we have. In fact, we should, as in the case of tax changes and the remuneration that we are normally working on, be carrying them around about a year earlier, but we in general are here to provide enough advance for the preparations that often require work. The same is true here, of course. It would have been better to have had a better time for this, and it would certainly have been possible if we had completed those reforms for several years ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u90	A respectable president. It's not just a risk in Iceland. The story of the past decade, or just over that, has shown us that the reality is right here in front of us. In the observed analyses, e.g. in the General's research reports, it has to do with a small structure of the banking system and a definite concomitant use of the national system through this build-up or vaccination maybe, as can be seen naturally. But there is more. History is closer to us in Iceland, it seems to be, but elsewhere. The CFC law was e.g. implemented late and eventually. There may be a contact where we can see, e.g. ...in the Panamas. People who are relatively high - ranking and in positions of influence within the political system are simply involved in such a business, which makes it necessary for you to expect a particular relationship between discourageing the sentences of such laws and personal interests because you do not have such laws. Despite the history of the bank collapse and of the Panama Documents, the Union case comes up and we still have this kind of link going on around the world. It is understandable that there is still a need to respond because this is still possible. Despite all the red waves that had been waved, despite the report on the domestic property of the Icelanders, despite a new report on the funds that flow into societies, somehow nothing will change, and I don't know if this is even enough. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u91	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. You're right. There's a senator here. It is not illegal to own an enterprise in low taxes or regional areas. Of course, it requires questions about its purpose, especially when a domestic company is not spoken of as a large domestic company, running a wide network of such national companies. At least we need to make sure that the Rapporteurs have enough resources to track down the information on the business of these partners and can really dive into them. It can be very complex and turn to put itself into such a vast business network, can we say, and, of course, call the natural question: What is the purpose of such a complex setting? Because so many societies, although not all - reason, are used for tax fraud, tax reform, as it were. This inadequacy of ours just to introduce the necessary adjustment of the law, necessary improvements to make better for and increase transparency, such as the CC legislation reverses, including That, of course, "in the business of these partners, questions arise. I'm not going to pretend to read from it some extensive or organized corruption but perhaps much more just this persistent lack of interest that has been too long for that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u92	A respectable president. Not responding to problems and corruption, I also believe to be corrupt. Just letting her go through with it, despite all that. During the last term, a change in a company record was adopted with the loyal support of the then financial minister, Benedikt the son of Jóhannesson, who I have said repeatedly and still claim to be the best financial minister we've had so far. As a result, we were hoping for a comparable access to the monthly balance sheet and shareholder file, they would require more changes as they were regularly updated, perhaps not a annual account file than any shareholder file. We've achieved this change in a company file, which is exactly one of the tools necessary to obtain real owners, so that anyone can find out who are the real owners of the enterprises they need to do business with, which is everything important. You want to know who you're dealing with. If you're dealing with someone who has a series of social security accounts behind him, you say: "No, I want to get paid right away, not an account. Don't squeeze. It's just an obvious conclusion. It's been a while, but because we're going into this, the bill is about opening the annual accounts and the stockholder files are still in the Senate, and no initiative has been taken at the government's office: hey, you might be wise to try to open this too, since we're even going to the real owners? That access is to find out who it is, not just access to real owners for some, not for all.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u93	Madam President. Of course, I couldn't agree more. A senator named Benedikt Jóhannesson is the best financial minister who has had so far but has been able to enjoy himself far too short. If he had had had had had time to finish, he would have no doubt had it done long ago. But yes, this is one example of interest or apathy in these substances. It is absurd and just wrong in principle that a state is gathering important information designed to increase the growth of our economy, our economic situation, which is intended for this. that companies and individuals can learn more about who they are possible in business with, their financial strengths, their real owners, etc. That the state is gathering this information - and we realize it: To a large extent the largest part of the enterprise's expense, i.e. It's their job to provide this information to the annual accounts, business files, their own costs, we can say. Of course, there is some cost to the government by holding the file as such, but it's supposed to be free and open to all. It increases transparency, increases public and other enterprises, including The media for active surveillance and maintenance. In this context, transparency is always a good thing. If this is not information that is not relevant for the public, there is no information relating to some kind of violation of personal protection or anything like that, then, of course, they should be in open access, so we can simply approach it without problems. I sure hope this is a good thing. A senator pointed forward soon and finished.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u94	A respectable president. I'd like to start with the issues I discussed in return. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Víglundsson. We're dealing with the real owners, but they need access to who they are and whoever's supposed to have access to who real owners are. Not only does it require opening access to an enterprise file as it should be now, you have heard some stories about stiffness there, but you also need open access to annual accounts and shareholder file, a very regular access to shareholder file, because stories about how things change at appropriate times before you see them in annual accounts so that some owners are not even seen, those within the year. One thing is very common when such a matter is spoken of, but it has become an unmistakably business. I'm beginning to get more and more doubt about this word, confidence in the business, as a reason for anything. I'm beginning to believe that commerce is not a reason to hide anything, especially in public relations. There is simply nothing as a business cover when it comes to negotiating with the government, and even between lawyers, private companies, when it all comes down to it, I want to go a long way, but to start with at least to the government. Business confidentiality has often been used as an excuse for not having to tell anyone. It is used as an excuse for even hiding actions, decisions, negotiations or things that should rightly be accessible to competitive people on the basis of information laws, etc. I think it's too narrow to look at business issues, and I think we need to look at them on a bit more broad ground and put more emphasis on transparency. We even have to go so far with the real owners that in the event of an ostracism, they're simply shut down business: I'm sorry, I don't know who you are. I can't witness who I'm doing business with. As a result, they do not happen. Simply like that. In the debate about debinos, the owners of Iceland as they call it, reminds me of the article on the Panama Documents, which was a list of some names that had in hundreds of companies back and forth. It is very difficult to verify whether any contracts are in the back, which is just put in a safe and locked up where real decisions and property can be drawn up. As if the law on real owners should work, such agreements would simply not be used in courts. If the owners who are registered as owners decide to sell everything and put the money in their pocket, the real owner, within a large fortunes, who has this contract in his bank box, could not come and say, "No, it was mine. Because he was never registered to any public record as a real owner. Then that deal is simply illegal. This is something that must be present to eliminate this virtual exchange and virtual ownership. This is a big part of the world. There was a story not so long ago in the MRV, where money was discussed. It specifically referred to a slot machines. A recent police report on the risk assessment of money laundering is combined with low, moderate, or significant risks. There are several factors that are considered to be a high risk here in Iceland; fictitious tax frauds, transport of cash to and from Iceland, and cash trade. Then there's a significant risk of driving cash, including A lot of money. And there's something else here. Real owner is registered as high risk in Iceland, as well as money shipments, lawyers interestingly, and then collection machines and lottery machines. Finally, there is a reduction of capital code, which is exactly what is being asked for an investment route report for and an analysis of that matter. All of these are marked by red in the report as a crisis, a threat, when it comes to money laundering. The report is entitled Risk Assessment for Money and Terrorism Funds, published in April 2019 by the State Marshal. It's not a small task. Under these are tax frauds, which are better considered in the report, how they divide. But we're just seeing it now, as I went over to answer the question. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson earlier tells us that we are terribly poor at responding to the risk that has been repeatedly pointed out to us for a very long time. The bank barn as we can see it, and the network of dematerials, created in the corrosion of the banking system, revealed it to us by the Panama Documents, and it was just a leak from one legal office. Now we're seeing a network from another area, so the problem is definitely very much. There are analyses that billions, tens of millions of people even left Iceland's economic system each year, that there are about 10 billion tax revenues, reminds me that it was, indistinguishable. In the financial secretary's report on domestic property, it was less than 5 billion, reminds me, between 31⁄25 billion, I can't exactly remember the numbers. I find that in the 2016 election report, a closer look and closer examination was encouraged. I don't see that much has been done following her, despite the repeated words and encouragement of finance ministers at the time, this would be an important subject for the discussion, etc. I don't see that much has been done since then, and in fact, so little that we get on a very gray list of money bullshits. We're seeing the U.S. Army thing come up. It could've been revealed sooner. To what extent would the misuse of resources in Namibia have been prevented if it had been taken earlier, as repeatedly noted? This is one of the things that are often criticized or often said should not be overchecked: the past should not be overindulged. We must look to the future and adjust things to the future. Yes, but we will never be responsible for the mistakes made in the past, and without doing so, we will never be able to earn confidence. People get away with the fact that we're in violation of our society. We're all in the community paying for a common project. When some do not participate, they increase the cost of all the others, obviously. When 10 billion tax dollars are missing from these and other sources who do this sort of business, they get either worse service or they have to pay more for the services we all use in our community. There is something that some have to take responsibility for, definitely, and we have nothing to be ashamed of looking for, if any, in some form of practice, to point one's finger through everything. Rather, the challenge is simply that it needs to be examined; it needs to be examined. This does not mean that anyone is responsible or something like that. Granted, a certain suspicion and attention is focused on certain sources, either because of interference or indifference, but it is much better to have an investigation of the case to inform and clear away the suspect. In a case of distrust, when there is a history of corruption, suspicion, or suggestion of corruption, it is of utmost importance to investigate the accusation that either the accusation is true, and there is something to be done in it, and it increases confidence that the system is working as if it is working, or that the accusation proves to be false, and that it has been decided on the basis of a discussion in the process that the system is not as bad as it is being made to appear. We need to seize this foundation of the discussion, that it is based on fact, information, and evidence, not on rumors and false stories. When they appear, especially in a unstable state, they need to be examined, always. They need to be taken seriously, no matter how far - fetched they seem. If they are very absurd, it should be very easy to point out why they are. Of course, if there is a basis for such accusations, they are to be taken seriously and examined. The benefits of doing so are only positive. That's how we should be taken into account, for example. This report by the State Marshal and the reasons why we are on the gray list of FAFF. There's a reason, no matter how small. The minister of justice made it up just before we arrived on that list, and no matter how much was made of it, before we set a law that was supposed to prevent us from ending that list. It was all very ironic. We need to take these matters seriously, and we need to show how seriously we take them. It is only that we can increase confidence in the government system, and that is only when we escape the pitulism and mob in our discussion, for in the distrust of society's climatic environment, the debate is easily difficult because it will never be based on facts and evidence and logic.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u95	Madam President. I don't want to extend this discussion much, but it's a question of what. I was intrigued by a businessman. I think we are not exactly on the same page there. Of course, there are so many business issues that need to be handled. Even by law, they must be kept confidential. A lot of information in business, which affects e.g. A competitive right, can damage invitations if such information is shared and so on. I think we need to be careful about being suspicious of that in all respects that a business is normally a protection of sensitive information in its business, which affects e.g. The company's competitiveness toward other market rivals We legally require that companies not share such information over their heads. I suppose, and I'd like to ask what. Only by the fact that he is not referring to such information, that an enterprise cannot have confidence in such delicate information, it should not be all in the public squares of that subject. And even though I agree with what's happened. A senator's increasing transparency is good, but it is not always a complete statement of good things, either in our lives or in our business affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u96	A respectable president. This may be the doubter in me. At times, I feel that business confidence is a prelude to providing information, that is not a basis for using it as an excuse. I'm particularly looking at government transactions, e.g. in tenders and the likes, and usually afterward, when relevant agreements are made available, members and all others, in order to prove that the invitations have done well and clearly and in the right and honest way, etc. All I'm stressing here is the use of a business policy that's very narrow. True, there are reasons why we have a secret business, but I don't reduce it at all, but I think it's too used. It is somewhere in our range. I guess a senator will meet. Maybe I'd like to go a little further through the description in terms of that than whisk. Senator. But it's somewhere in the range of normal law requirements and confidence within companies and the way I perceive the current use of business secrets. There's a right space somewhere in between. But I think we've come too far to hide information that in general has to do with public and public surveillance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u97	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. You see, I think we're gonna what we're gonna do. A senator agrees exactly when it comes, for example. to the demands we should make to the public, especially to the State, when there is a public pay for services. I often bring up big eyes when I see a substantial trade; counselling from stakeholders as e.g. Obviously, the prime minister has a political bond or friendship relationship, or I see a somewhat obvious and strong connection between parties. I feel that it is only natural for me to ask what was involved in making decisions about such a business. Then I also find it normal to make a requirement to the minister to state his relationship before making a decision about such a business, and it is certain that a minister will not be there. Of course, this does not produce a particularly good blow, even though in the small Icelandic community, connections can often be traced to a wide range of places without anything else being behind it, but just the fact that we are a small society. That is why it is so important to have a high level of transparency and that there is a conscientious awareness of any connection. However, when it comes to employment, it is normal and necessary for an enterprise to maintain a confidential view of the sensitive affairs of the enterprise. That is exactly when it comes to such a situation, for example. CFC companies or financial reforms, etc, that it is often very difficult to distinguish between completely normal and honest enterprises where we are primarily insure a competitive operating environment for e.g. An international company that works here, a natural and competitive business environment, and then again a treacherous business. [[The president calls.]] That's why it's so important that there's ambition and funding in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u98	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator has only come to the core very well. The economic connection between the public parties is interesting. One of the corruption stories I received spoke extensively about recruiting counselors, right, in some public agency. Then there is a famous one - story story story about a counselor, in which one of this counseling community publicly went out to be on the wood construction list or something like that, as the question of spontaneous action was: Well, how did you get a job? It shows, I think, a lot of things about how the foundation of this is. Maybe it was a joke, but the joke is actually a little bit what reality is behind it. People understand why it's a joke, and they understand why it's funny in this surreal way. And that is exactly where business secrets and communications are concerned with government agencies that we must do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u99	Madam President. I commend the opinion that a greater proportion of the budget of the bill for funding for the year 2019 was submitted by the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance. Our committee's article identifies the committee and presented the subject of the bill. I'm not running it any further, but I refer to the published commission on that subject. I'd like to interrupt what we'd like to discuss on official financial and financial laws that say, with permission of presidents: It's based on 26. track No. 123/2015, public financial matters. It shows that a minister is allowed, if necessary, to seek additional financial resources in the bill for financial support in order to respond to temporary, unforeseen, and inevitable expenses within the budget, although they have not been able to respond with other legal resources. In a follow-up with a bill for financial support, the exchange of funds to Member States and projects should be reported, such as Article 26. it's a government law. Thus, it presents a more difficult requirement than older budgetary laws; it hides the laws on government finance in terms of new resources, including transfers within lawsuits, reserves for lawsuits, and general reserves designed to meet all major deviations from programmes. A respectable president. I do not refer to the text that we publish in the majority of the budgets of the budget on public financial matters, but I would like to see that this is the extent of the budget bill now primarily due to the events that have taken place here on the job and the expenses associated with it and are the expenses and the changes in budgets in the table on page. 2 in our committee party. It says on the main budget of the bill: The bill suggests a total of 14,906.5 million. K. It's from the budget of the year. The total increase is 19,859 million. K. ... buton the other hand, 5,100 billion ways. K. reduction of the general reserve. Relatively, large spending cases report major financial abnormalities. They turn to economic and systematic grounds and influence of Justice and the opinions of the Allegorate in the social security system. Remunerations for unemployment and remuneration for responsible pay increase a total of 7.6 billion dollars. Unemployment rate is 3.5% per year compared to 2.8% on the basis of the 2019 budget and is largely attributable to the fall of WOW earlier this year. The cost of birth will be more than 1.1 billion. higher than expected, the increase is mainly due to the increase in the maximum pay since the previous year as well as the increase in the number of parents who take birth vacations over the budget. Expenditures for bioenergy and the elderly increase a total of 7.3 billion. Thereby, the Court's Court's Court's Court's Court's Court's Court of Reunion for Reunion of Pays to Penitentiary due to payment of mandatory employment-related Pensions, but the estimated effect of this sentence is about 5.4 billion. The correction included 29 thousand persons for their pension prior to January and February 2017. In addition, disability improvements are being corrected in accordance with the opinion of the Allied agent in terms of the influence of habitat time on the right to the disability pension. The effect is some 800 million. K. Of course, 320 have been corrected for the remaining years. This suggests nearly 1.5 billion dollars. increase due to a loss of health care providers who have not been treated with appropriate measures. In particular, there are extra costs for physiotherapy of about 660 million. K. It's 13% over the budget. On it. Five years of physical therapy cost has increased by 177% or at 3.5 billion dollars. to a name value. It is estimated that a number of other measures of health insurance will exceed the terms of the budget, such as the 410 million foreign hospital services. K. and aid expenses 270 million. K. There are suggestions for a total of 790 million. K. a contribution to transport due to the unforeseen additional expenses that the road will have to be paid for the new Army. It involves payment to ship - building stations for the final renovation of the ship and, on the other hand, the cost of a delayed delivery to the Western Islands. Other budgets for my roads refer to the bill's work for a more detailed explanation. Regarding the reevaluation of the 2019 year, it says that although the bill is not intended to alter income and expenditures in line with the outcome forecast, a reassessment of the year's recovery is still being made on the bill. These are the main incomes and fees of the state's budget, but total wealth is now estimated to be 862 billion.2 billion. which is less than 30 billion dollars. a decrease from the embezzlement. Reassessments are based on new national forecasts and information on stress and tax pay for the remaining year. In this case, total expenses are now estimated to be 877 billion. or 13.5 billion. over the budget expected. On the contrary, the price is now 200 billion. K. within the budget, and apart from 5.1 billion bucks. The reduction in the general reserve in the bill is estimated to be 2 billion. additional of him to offset expenses in various fields, including for reassessment of the payroll and gang presidents. Finally, interest costs can turn out to be about 1 billion. less than a budget where national interest forecasts are based on low inflation and lower interest levels than in budgets. A respectable president. Since January to September 2019, no further subject is given to me as the subject of the surrender of the Kingdom Fund, which has been discussed in detail. It's a legal committee. I'd like to take back my words to what's in the bill where we're bringing down the current budget of 5.1 billion. The financier has been concerned with the use of reserves and the resources now included in the budget. That is why a majority of the legal committees in their panels refer to the following text about the use of public reserves and the reserves of litigation categories: ▪ In a discussion on bill for budgetary and the annual collection of state funds within the year, the Committee still faces the challenge of not having a clear overview of the financial rights of individual lawsuits and the use of reserves. The use of reserves, and even individual museums where they are still around, is not yet specific. Therefore, it is not completely clear whether the laws on public finances have been fully used. The law assumes that the warrants are transferred from year to year. It is permitted to move between subjects within a number of languages and eventually to use the resources of reserves. Funding is a principle based on the principle that after the first six months of the budget, reserves are not seen, but both at the beginning of the year's risk assessment and at three months' review, there is good reason to respond in a consistent way by counseling. After a six - month allowance, even more at nine months' allowance, there is reason to take practical measures in the use of reserves more closely. The Commission believes that in the process of making budgets, this procedure will have to be much more specific than it has ever been before. In the fall of 2020, payoff of the budget bill will have to be assumed that this procedure will be fully implemented. There will be a clear overview of your financial status, transfer options and the status of reserves before making any financial proposal. The Commission suggests that the Ministry of Economics and Economics is working on a more progressive presentation of operations for the individual Ministry. A respectable president. This can be attributed to it and to repeat what both appeared in the historical history of the highest degree. The secretary of finance at the contributions of the bill, which is traced to the Commission's list of objects, that the variations from the budgets, are reserved for those that fall from external trauma and economic exchanges, are unusually small. The bill makes it clear that we are in the government's financial administration with the financial laws that we are now working on from 2015 onward, and it has been a significant success in achieving a better grip on the management of funds. I'd also like to mention that we now suggest, I'd like to say, previously unknown funds for reserves, e.g. in the budget we agreed on for the next year, about 10 billion dollars. In the treasure of lips, which is set aside: and there are divisions and proverbs also. We're trying to make it appear that the practicality of the budget management tools that are in the budget must be more targeted than it has been so far. This is what we're doing here. We're paying the bill for financial support for the year 2019, especially to discipline this financial administration more effectively and make it more beneficial. It may be summed up to the criticism of the fiscal bill, which suggests that this year's allowance does not guarantee the transparency that we may have needed, but all of this suggests that we are better able to cover the kind of work that the budget puts before us and the resources it provides. In addition to the contribution of a bill, the more part of the budget committees make adjustments listed in our members' list and I will run on them in short. The total budget of that change is 398.1 billion. K. and besides, there are new proposals that I'm gonna do a little bit of an explanation for later. Funding proposals are as follows: proposals are made about 51.4 million. K. the increase of budgets for state reexamination. That's a suggestion of about 8 million. K. Fundament to help and deliver a report to the European Court of Human Rights on a court case for ordering four judges in the National Court. This is a legal proposal of 23,10, a special hospital service, about 70 million. K. funding due to the need for renewal of the main electrical network and the electrical administration of the Hospital in Akureyri. Legal category 24.10 suggests 40 million. K. The budget for the Southern Institute of Health to cope with stress as a result of increased unemployment in the district. Legally, 2740, other disability payments, suggests the value of 210 billion. K. a donation in addition to December supplementation of microenergy and rehabilitation services by 10,000 k. in 2019 C.E., a man who was paid December donations from the government's insurance agency. Along with this proposal, a 3rd cover proposal will be submitted. about the bill to correct various laws due to budgets in 2020 to ensure that this additional payment will be tax free and will not affect other supply-and-replace services, such as housing and special housing support. In spite of this amount, the objective is that other payments remain intact. So this supplementation is here on a fund and has already been approved by the legal adjustment that I was doing prior to the payment of a law on various legal arrangements in the state's budget and was taken care of by the General Assembly yesterday. In the end, a greater proportion of legal committees are proposed for a 32nd class of 32nd, with a proposal of 18.7 million. K. a contribution to the surgeon general's office to meet the unexpected cost of transport by Baronstingi 47 at a temporary facility on the 10 Red Sea River as a result of mold damage that occurred at the previously mentioned facilities. Then there is a list of changes made by the Commission that are primarily shifts, nine suggestions that do not affect the overall status of the bill, but are primarily inputs between joints, changes in economic change in pay yields, or proposals for changing types of budget. I mentioned, a respectable president, that it was also in connection with the budgetary bill a change proposal made after the committee's opinion was distributed at the council. This is 353 billion. K. A contribution to the 09.10 police force where these funds are ordered to be paid to the police. Then there is a government fund income, so the proposal does not affect the survival of a government fund during the year, but it is income that fell by cooperation in law - enforcement agreements on international agreements with other countries. It simply did not cover the budget in its own time, either for the council, and then for the financial deliberation of the budget bill in its own time, how to do it but what to do. The head of the Committee, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, has distributed these adjustments to the budget, but I'm aware of it in this brief matter. A respectable president. In view of this, Willum Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, chairman of the budget board, Haraldur Benediktsson, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Páll Magnússon, and Steinunn Árnadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u100	A respectable president. There are so many questions I would like to ask. Let's start with the use of reserves and why we're calling for more money on budgets. Consider, for example, an arrangement of 18.7 million due to mold in the housing of surgeons. Why is this not just part of the reserve, instead of going all the way into the budgets and payments at the council? It was 5.1 billion that it would have been possible to take 18.7 million from each other to make use of it without the need for a short meal in 18.7 million. There is also another matter that took place in front of the committee and covered the holiday payment. Can I not remember that last year, a commitment has just been made because of the collection of vacations with different institutions? If there are many vacation periods, there are commitments to be made and must be balanced in the accounts of the Agency. In the event that there is a time when you suddenly have to pay off this accumulated holiday, there's money to pay for it. You don't have to go on any extra money to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u101	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. First, why would you suggest 18.7 million because of a lack of housing at a designated office? I think most of the stuff runs, I think it's very detailed, in a committee study on the use of reserves and the use of the resources expected by it, that we may be in places similar to those of the whale. A senator was opposed, we are following the way of using the tools and tools that the economy laws allow us to avoid making such a move. To respond in this way is a suggestion of the greater part. We have observed how reserves have been used. You can read about it in a report, and I didn't specifically make it a subject of conversation in my lead talk, e.g. Because of a group of hospital services, reserves have been set up for unexpected trauma at the Akureyri Hospital. About the holiday pay, we were dealing with this a year ago, yeah. We have in this matter, as many others have been following the commitments to institutions that can be expected and handled properly. I think we can agree that we have now made some of the major changes we often talk about as the new budget or new financial laws. The commitment and commitment of holiday commitment are only part of the category that we are putting our hands on this. I didn't realize it either. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, the way we handle legal resources from year to year, but that is part of the work that we also need to gain better control over in our financial authority and that the legal committee is informed of that authority, and we get the state bill sooner into the council than we've got it so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u102	A respectable president. One of the very things I asked for in the Committee was logical support for all these proposals, how they fulfilled or failed to meet the laws on public finances to be temporary, unpredictable, and unavoidable. The explanation was not received. The answers were simply: It's explained in the bill. But the reason I asked is that there are insufficient explanations in the bill. I want answers on each and every suggestion, but let's just take it as an example of medicine and medicine. There are tools: 270 million. It simply didn't count. There's nothing unexpected about it. It is normal to plan that it is over or under, and this should probably be used here at around 30. the law on government funds rather than on the use of funds. There is no explanation for any particular reason why the funds are being taken. That is why I want to do a final attempt to get that support and, as a result, get the financial bill into a committee between 2 and 3. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u103	A respectable president. I just want to reiterate what I was trying to say in a story talk. We're doing this with a budget bill that contains -- in view of the time I've been working on these matters at the council, which is coming from the moment I was red - hair - at least a variation from current financial laws, there is a basis for the criticism. A senator mentioned here, whether expenses are unexpected or unforeseen. Again, I repeat, we're getting a better grip on our financing. Plans can be criticized and additionally added. A senator named here with the aid tools could mention changes in maternity vacations. That is a totally valid view. We need to feel that we are not necessarily content to plan this way and that we need to take these measures. About unexpected and unpredictable, e.g. With regard to land surgeon housing, it is entirely in my mind to be completely unforeseeable expenses for housing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u104	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for his tour of 2nd. ... fora billfora contribution. We are always in the same steps in this discussion. It is always a matter of whether the funds involved are relevant and if they fall within the limits discussed in the official financial law, i.e. that expenses are temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable. I think, Madam President, it's time to review this definition. We are always in the same situation, checking between ourselves as to whether this is true or not. All you need is a clean line. What I miss in this regard is that there is really no judges. This is very clear in the law, but it becomes increasingly evident that the will of the government, the government, at any given time, is wearing hairs, and even goes about whether the authority should be in there or not. What I just wanted to ask you. A senator will agree with me that it is time for us to put some clear lines on this subject. It's obvious there's some sources that don't belong there. I think it's safe to say in a number of cases. This is the subject of one talk after another, and it is such as listening to it and not taking it into consideration. So my question is, Isn't it time we put down clean lines on what falls underneath and what doesn't, and get a general, good definition that you can follow?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u105	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists and just wants to go back to the point that we need to reach, as if we were considering more part of the legal committee, with the guidance we have to meet unexpected expenses or new expenses. First of all, it is at the Ministers' home, by means of a transfer between lawsuits, and then after the six months' resolution, how we use reserves. What has changed in recent years, a respectable senator, is exactly this: We are gaining a better grasp of using a bill for financial aid only to the things that are unexpected and unpredictable. Then I'm not gonna drag a feather over it, a respectable president, that there's some point of hair and evidence to support the unexpected occurrence of occasional expenses, and I'm quite familiar with that. In some cases, it is a clean response due to other circumstances, whether political or political agreements, which must then be completed by this means, using means to employ funds. In the end, it does not take the resources from the Council. I am, however, and have long been its spokesman, a respectable president, so I get to get it to come, since I have 40 seconds left in my speech class, to come up in the middle of a year or ever after a year has begun and a budget is started, is normally brought a bill to change the current budget from going some painful way of unexpected expenses. If, for example, it could be okay. will be a change in government composition in the middle of the term period, and not only because of that argument but also because of some of the circumstances, that we need to respond to large expenditures that we are going to face and cannot yield to unexpected and unforeseen consequences.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u106	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator's answer and the memory of the item have, as it were, agreed. One senator noted that the use of government laws on public finances is not completely clear. But I believe that both government opposition and government officials must come to some common conclusion as to what would happen to those laws and what would not be. I think it's a half-way meaningless debate, especially on the part of the memory, having to come here and point out that it doesn't apply, and there's nothing to it. I wanted to ask you why. A senator with regard to one team, on page. 62 on the bill. It discusses improvements under social security and disability laws and talks about giving 721 billion. K. In addition, due to recalculation of habitats, following the approval of the Generalist, who is in charge of domestic activities abroad and the right to micro-energy pension. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is possible - I don't know what. A senator can answer precisely - that this is a frequent announcement of an agent's decision, could it be? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u107	A respectable president. I have no basis to answer that question firmly. Senator. On the other hand, we went to the work of a legal committee over the reports that were behind the bills printed on the bill. I'm not going in that chair in a short answer to tell you if it's right for a dollar. I'm sure there's some point of view in this subject. I am not prepared right now to do anything but keep the number shown in this bill and the report that is behind it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u108	Madam President. First, I would like to apologize for not having heard when they called me. Of course, I have the excuse that I have turned the bad ear to the hall. Thank you. A senator on this matter. What always bothers me in this, because we're still there, we can say, break a child's eviction and interpretation of the laws on public finances, is that I feel that we are far too often in the temptation to try to back up the expenditure into the frame of law instead of drawing a line into the sand and saying, "Here are expenses that don't stand up, and the executive authority must simply find other ways to solve it. Of course, it's where I stop at the most predictable unexpected expenses in budgets, an increase in donations due to the agreement of state and church, which we've been making year after year in budgets. It was totally anticipated that this amount would come this year and should, of course, have been expected in the budget of the year. We do not have to put many words into it. I think it's safe to say that this budget is by no means a government law, based on financial support. If this joint is unexpectedly and unpredictable and cannot be dealt with in any other way, it is actually possible to back up whatever may be available. I wondered about the baseline law on public finances, including Be careful. Each investigator warned the government that the basis for a budget 2019 was far too optimistic. If this were the case, it would have been better to expect further expenditures, e.g. because of unemployment which is a completely predictable result if economic propagation occurred, as everyone was saying to the highest degree. Governments and budgets, inferior to what was expected? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u109	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his objection, who is completely forgiven for being distracted. I'm going to say, first of all, that I don't think it's unexpected and not without any reason that the scope of this bill is much less than ever before. It is simply because there has been more discipline and more options to play, such as the use of reserves and transfers. We've got a better grip on that. Nor will I try in any way to argue that the expenses of an agreement with the church are unexpected and unpredictable in the budget bill. There are things that are just a political decision to fly out on this budget bill because we don't have the intention of changing current budgets with a special bill, such as me. wanting to do at the time when the government took over after a year's convention, after the approval of the budget, could have had little to do with the government's affairs. It would have been good reason for me to do so, instead of going into a reserve, as was done by certain measures that could be misconstrued as unexpected and unexpected expenses. We're gonna go for a second. A senator supported both governments and had to speak for them, had reached the end of a budget bill, that there was every reason to bring a special bill to change the budget to finish it. About a question why. Hence, the senator's question of whether the budget of the year was not otherwise valid is to say that we have fixed sizes on which we make our budget and why we make budgets. It is then a very thin ice or dangerous path, or whatever it may say. A senator, how much we can walk out of it, and he has some valid expectations about how this will not go along with the one we use for the budgeting process at a time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u110	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. What I'm doing with this is that the more part approved just about a year ago by the budgets that had as little left over as the government's financial policy allowed, in what might be called a fairly strong economic charity, on the basis of economic forecasts that were generally practical. This was done in spite of a very clear warning from the overwhelming majority, I allow myself to state, the specialized bodies that came before a budgetary committee that was working out from all over-the-convincing economic leaders. Hence, it may have been closer to having the rest greater, and financial ministers have also criticized the view that the purpose of living, financial policies, roofed rather than floored, i.e. that the rest should not exceed financial policy. It is a moral hazard that governments fall into not leaving a table for e.g. possible economic and time abnormalities not just to assume the contributions to the National Church on a budget bill of the year but to replace them with funding. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u111	President wants less of it. Councilmen are to respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u112	A respectable president. All I'm going to say is that we may not be expecting a repeat on a contribution to the church in the next few years. There was an explanation. They were making negotiations, and they did not want to take the initiative to advance the pressure of open negotiations. I think that was a cautious perspective. It can then be debated as to how wise it is to do so in this way. We're gonna go for a second. A senator agrees completely with that. That's what I'm talking about. In the first place, a senator mentioned minimal restancy. A more part remained in financial policy. In the past, I said, "We're just sticking to a set set of standards we're adding to the budget bill. " It can be said in March and April: We were far too optimistic. But where are we going? I think there's gonna be a much more detailed and deeper discussion about it than just a short answer if we're gonna allow some independent interpretation of it. It must be a deeper discussion and a more consistent course than emotion alone. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u113	Madam President. I recommend to my landmark party a portion of the budget board, consisting of all categories in the management position. Funds arrange budgets of up to 20 billion dollars. for current years, but taking into account reserves, as this is, will increase the expenditure by 15 billion dollars. The rise of the State for the current year, 2019, would be 29 billion dollars. ... inthemoney. It was supposed to be a good year. But what is the case? The slope is up to 15 billion. The Hall for 2019 will be 15 billion. This is a swing of 43 billion for the worse this year. Independence has long boasted about being good at government money, but the numbers do not lie and this shows, although, of course, things are unexpected and cannot be expected altogether, that I think the government box needs at least to keep free from independents. We had this discussion last year, where the government opposition, including those in the United States, criticized that the budget for 2019 was far too unrealistic, based on wishful thinking and unrealisticity. I think it's simply coming on the day you knew, that the basis of this budget was based on sand. I realize quite clearly that things in this bill for the sake of the money couldn't be provided. I wonder if there are some things that are unpredictable, good and good, but there are a number of things in this bill that actually do not meet the strict conditions of the budget. I felt that the author of the greater part agrees, and he specifically mentioned the church's issues. I can come to that later. Funds, unlike budgets, can be handled only on temporary, unseen, and inevitable expenses. These conditions all need to be met. Expenditively, expenses need to be temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable. In reality, this bill has no place in financial contributions, but in financial terms. That is exactly what IX says. section of the bill on government finance that when laws were passed, conditions were being imposed to seek additional financial resources by means of financial contributions. A report on public finance law also states, by permission of the president: Then the government's budget was set up by law on the authority of the Commission's sources for financial assistance, taking into account the regulations of 41 C.E. The Constitution that a fee from a government fund is to be paid except by means of financial or financial means. The law prescribed a clear policy on the role of a shepherd, but it had a tendency to transfer various tax contributions into financial contributions that should rightly be placed in budgets. The law stated that all predictable arrangements were to be made in financial terms. If the fee was meant to be seen, it should not be used in financial contributions. Of these, all categories agree and at least in words, Mr. President. However, budgets should be covered, which could not be provided for financial management. Twenty-six. a law on public financial matters says: If necessary, a prime minister is allowed to look for additional financial resources in the bill for financial support to respond to, as I had within the past ◯ hourly, inaccessible, and inevitable expenses within the budget year; for they could not be treated with the resources specified in these laws. Here comes the fourth requirement: ◯...of the others, they could not have been dealt with by means of the instruments specified in these laws. This is a remarkable condition that is behind the use of a general reserve. We made a big deal of it when our agency's proposal to put money on the district attorney and the head of the IRS because of a federal investigation of the Samherjam, but the government made that recommendation, not even twice, but twice, including. it suggests that a reserve should be used. We did a lot of work on this, and in my opinion it is quite clear that the use of the common reserve is not allowed when it comes to this unique matter. There may be no need to repeat that discussion here. I'm going back a little bit and again on the bill to the budget we're talking about here. It still looks too much like a previous financial bill. It may well be that members of the board can point to a worse budget bill than this, that we are going in the right direction, good and good, but there are still too many examples that there are laws on public finances not to follow to the limit. Consider some examples. We will see here that a Federal Accounting Research, one of the few agencies on the field of the council, not in the field of the Commission, points to this as well in its review. I'm going to read from the review of the National Reconnaissance bill that deals with budget money and points out that this bill contains expenses that do not belong in budgets but either in financial terms that are brought by reserves or by means of transfers within litigations. Let's go over this a little bit, with President's permission. It's a government retrospect that speaks, not Governor Ágúst Ólafur: ▪ No changes proposed in the bill can be said to have been unforeseeable in making budgets. These include contributions to the National Church on the basis of its agreement with the State that the state funds cost a certain number of priests and for the review of the increase in priestly wages in 2017. It's not a small number in this bill. Wasn't that about a billion? I think so. [[Up to: 1.1.]] Yes, 1.1 billion. I felt like the lead guide of the greater part would support the fact that it was at least in a grey area. I'm not going to put words in his mouth, but the State Accounting has that opinion, and I can state that I share that opinion, too. We've been discussing the church's affairs for three consecutive days, we've finally reached something else, but we've seen that cost to the church seems to cover budgets year after year. The church was on budgets 2018, 2017, and 2016, and then 2019. There's always been an additional contract, so I hope we won't see the State Church do another single drop in budgets, for such expenditures are meant to be in financial terms, wanting men to follow laws to the limit we must want. I'm going to continue to give a brief witness on the State Revision, which is a critical feature of the budget bill. She says here, by permission of the President: Whether to transfer a portion of the telecommunication fund to the 115 Convention with the Farice ehf, it is a case of ritual. to stand even Based on the cost oflining fiber optics, it will be estimated that the purpose of a budget to deal with temporary, unforeseen, and inevitable expenses within the budget year will be considered. However, it is clear that a minister has certain authority under public financial law to bring money between parties within the same category. Similarly, the question can be asked whether in the existing bill for budget money by 2019 it is sufficiently available to all the budgets rightfully assigned to the budget. In this context, there is a tendency to compromise the business of some strains this year to the extent that they are temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable. An increase in the amount of money needed to cope with fluctuations due to foreign medical costs, which have been reported to vary from year to year, gives reason to consider the use of reserve funds in order to meet fluctuating expenses. Both the reserves and the general reserve could be used to cover such expenses. To remind them that a reserve for each seminar shall be held except for at least a maximum of 2% of the budget required for the seminary. According to Public Reexamination (Multiary Research) - this is important - ◯ it is desirable that a bill for the budget was followed by a summary showing the provision and status of reserves during the year. According to Public Review, budgets are being set directly from the general reserve into the relevant budget rather than a reduced contribution to the budget. Track No. For public financial reasons, 123/2015 assumes that the general budget will be used in this way to cover the expenditures of the EU's budget; now I'm like a broken record - ◯ hourly, unpredictable, and inevitable. In particular, the purpose of the general reserve is to reduce the need to provide a bill for a contribution. Final point at State Review: ▪ In the opinion of Government Accounting, it is reasonable to believe that the National Stadium Act on the National Stadium and the State's takeover at Speli ehf. are listed in budget 2020, but they are now being treated by the Council. The aforementioned body is aimed at preparing and staging for a possible national arena in Saturday instead of Saturday's Valley and is expected to bring further contributions to the Society from the Ministry of Education and Culture with a service contract. According to Public Review, careful consideration should be given to the way the State's work is extended to an official partner. Here's a Federal Accounting in its diplomatic style to review only the points that the State opinion should, in fact, not belong in the budget bill but in financial or expenses that could be met with the reserves, on the other hand, by the lip set or by the general reserves - or by transfers within the seminars. The budget bill is now placing 2.5 billion people in the hospital. Is there an unseen limp with which the Landspians now live? He's not unpredictable. We hear this every year. Presidents of the Land Hospital have come to the budget committee and given a review in terms of the need for change. I recall that this year's limp is headed for 4 billion in total, but now the Landspians are engaged in extensive maintenance operations, as the hospital's director expressed it, in spite of all the government believes they are doing to the hospital. You might wonder, " Is this increase in the Land Hospital at 2.5 billion in the budget unexpected or not? ' It's not just a quarrel about Caesar's beard, it's important, because we saw that the budget of the past was abused, completely out of the way of the government. I think all of us in this room really want to see as much money as possible. We also need to stand up together and throw out what may be at the threshold of meeting the criteria for public financial laws. Surely we can. We saw, for example. When a secretary of transportation took advantage of reserves, I am reminded, rather than financial provisions, to face the challenges of transportation last year. We had this discussion on the budget board, and I think we all felt at least... in the gray area the use of reserves in view that road maintenance is not directly unexpected, in view of the fact that both domestic and foreign people have certainly noted that this needs to make a significant contribution to road maintenance. I can, like, do something special. They're putting money in the changed custody of the Board of Directors. Is that unpredictable? I'm not gonna say it, but I'm gonna wonder. They're adding money to a fiber optics for Snowgrounds and stuff like that. Is that unpredictable? They're putting a coin to shorten the treatment period in the Foreign Institute. We can totally agree with the projects, I'm not going to criticize the projects, but is it unpredictable to put money in it? They're putting money in regular health care checks. Is that unpredictable? They're adding 140 million to hospital transport on a regular charge, and they say here: 'It's a contract, and it can't be changed.' I don't know the details of this case, but I just wondered why it's not just financial. It may well be that there are some reasonable explanations. There are other things to be gleaned and these. Of course, things around here are unpredictable, so I'm not saying that everything is a gray area. The state is losing court cases and unemployment is more than the terms of the budget and the like, but we're still supposed to do something a little dramatic, because otherwise the Ministers will be doing it. I think it is the temptation of all of them to make practical use of the funds provided here. Maybe it's been going the right way, and I realize that it's better than it used to be. So I'm only going to the other things, the government law on government finance is very clear that a minister is responsible for the implementation of budgets and that the management business is efficient and efficient. To that end, a minister can achieve by setting rules for the use of financial resources. Also, a minister can change the circulation of money within a class. This is not a transfer of funds between businesses, schemes, investments, and, if any other problem, a collection of proverbs, or the funds from a general reserves for certain conditions met. - That was a sentence I could barely understand myself. She's on the committee. All these measures must be used by a minister to achieve the aims of budgets, if financial resources are not sufficient, before consulting through financial funds. Before we receive the budget, it should be used for, or in the reserve. The budget should be the last resort, so to speak, and even if this plan is available, it is important that these conditions for temporary, unforeseen, and inevitable events be met. For 2019, the bill for financial support does not explain how some of the legal resources requested to meet the above conditions. Let's just wait for the highest legal rights, which is the Constitution. I mentioned her a little earlier. At 41 st. it is said that no fee can be paid, unless there is a warrant for it in financial or financial funds. You can't pay a cent from a government fund unless you're under financial or financial laws. We may always try to keep that in mind. I know sometimes it's hard to figure things out. We're talking about 99,000 billion dollars. There are, of course, things you cannot predict. I'll figure it out. Twenty-six. By permission of the President's permission of a government law on government finance: If necessary, a secretary is allowed to look for additional financial resources in the bill for financial support to deal with temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable expenses within the budget, although they have not been able to cope with the resources specified in these laws. That's where I'd like to add, according to Article 19. You should follow up with a copy of this guide which describes the exchange of funds to the Member State and to-dos. So I only draw out my main critical point when he saw that it was not sufficiently clear to a financial committee that a minister had taken care of all the arrangements that can be used to save funds before consulting funds. We discussed only the role of reserves, and we have, as well, done so in another context. We discussed both the general reserve and the reserve of litigation classes. This is a special reason and reason to remind the European Commission of the requirements for using reserves. The budget bill is applying for up to 15 billion dollars. We've got reserve documents on the budget. It is unexpected or unusual to place the provision of the reserve into the budget and not really benefit to the point of not identifying the activity given from reserves of 5.1 billion. The reserve reserve is being reduced by 5.1 billion to meet the changes requested here. Of course, it is reasonable to understand how reserves are handled and also to raise funds. Legally, there is a divorce that allows each minister to give money for a lawsuit group in a special reserve for the jury. Therefore, you may wonder, " Is there no criticism that there are no reserves for every class of lawsuits, as I please? ' This should likely be considered. It is also noted that in a paper with the budget bill, it paints the picture that good results have been obtained because the amount of funds is now much less than the share of the financial expenses of the state's budget. Then in the memory of the section, we will want to remind you that this picture may be different only if it is added to the general reserves and reserves of the mercenaries. You remember that the reserves were supposed to take the lung away from what would have ended up in the budget, so let's compare apples with apples. When the administrative body boasts that it has often seen it in the black budgets, it may also be necessary to consider that we have resources within the law that attracts the reserves. The chapter on reevaluation of the 2019 year shows that a total of about 30 billion take place. At the return of the changes made to the bill for financial support at the General Assembly, their impact on the total wealth, its commitment and other criteria for financial planning should be evaluated. Other than that, I refer to the committee. Before I quit, I'd like to mention a few unique items in my budget. Interestingly, in the budget bill, a proposal is made about 20 million. K. increase in pay costs from August to three appointed national courts as a result of the European Court of Human Rights that four judges are not legalized to judge the court. The estimated total cost for implementation in this respect is 28 million, but this is only part of the taxpayer's cost due to the failure of the government parties to order judges to the Country Court. Even now, the majority are adding a new proposal to deposit more money on this matter. About 5.4 billion will be removed from the state's budget because of the Court's court of Legal rights regarding a retrospective decrease in payment for pensioners. In addition, disability improvements are being corrected in accordance with the opinion of the Allied agent in terms of the influence of habitat time on the right to the disability pension. An agent concluded that the decrease in the pension rate due to a foreign population was not in accordance with law. These two cases show the necessity of both the legislation and, of course, the implementation of the law of individual organizations. Part of this problem is that we are to move slowly, and this may be part of the problem that we often receive administrative bills all too late, and in far too many cases we will see that our legislation does not hold a close view and can cause great discomfort. We see that 7.6 billion are in the budget because of increasing unemployment, but it is interesting that each percentage of the unemployment rate costs about 6.5 billion, so here, all members of Congress see the importance of combating unemployment with all available means, except for the human tragedy of unemployment, especially in long - term inefficiency. Unfortunately, on account of the next year's budget, unemployment is expected to be a relatively small change in unemployment next year. Again, it is my sense that wishful thinking and unrealisticness govern the government. Today, more than 7,000 are out of work, but more than 4,000 were last year, so the number between years is considerable. We should consider this as senators, all of whom, from any category, and be deeply concerned about increasing unemployment. I remind you of the actions taken by the former governments to cope with long - term noncooperative activities, especially by the collapse of the bank. We see that a special hospital service receives 2.5 billion bucks. In the budget bill, due to an increase in expenses. The current crisis of the Land Hospital reduces to 4 billion, which, of course, is still a major concern. It seems often that governments know that funding is not enough, that people just sail asleep to frags, so to speak, know that the National Hospital will not make ends meet because in its nature, the Landspians will not control their demand; this is the end of the service so that from what we put in the budgets, people will continue to get weaker and injured and need that service. It is up to us to meet the demands that the Landspians feel they need to make. This is all of us a kin to do. All political groups praised health issues, and it's obvious that the system needs more. I know that the greater part says that he has done enough but that all he needs to do is look over the medical discussion to see that this is not enough. If we listen to the presidents of the Land Hospital, the Hospital in Akureyri, the nursing homes, or the medical institutions in the country, we hear no one saying that there was enough. Why can't we listen to those voices? It may be appropriate to note that the government reduces the budget for the construction of a new International Hospital of about 1.5 billion over a series of projects, according to one report. We continue to see the growth improvements reduced, but because of unbelievably great decline, there are always fewer people who enjoy them. In the next year's budget, only 3.4 billion will grow, but I will draw attention to the fact that prior governments spent up to 16 billion on interest improvements. Can you imagine? At the time of the year, 16 billion were making the most of it. Now we're down to over 3 billion. People who do not have much money to play are concerned about growth. When it was most important - I think I'm handling it correctly - I covered half of the money that my earnest homes were covering the housing. I don't feel that this strategy is like one of those sightings, and I think this government is aware that it's working to undermine interest rates. I've had many words with the head of the Independence Party about this, which I don't really feel is having faith in this reforming arrangement and as always in his administration. Finally, it is particularly significant that financial compensations are not guaranteed to be found in so - called biographies for micro- and older cities. Sad to say, the government of the left green, forwarding party, and the Independence Party did not trust to improve the interests of these large groups in a comparable way that has been done for other community groups. Here's where I've been over the committee's opinion and added a little bit. Of course, I speak only for myself, but I refer to this other aspect of the commission found in the side halls and underneath the writings of Ólafur Álfur Ágústsson, Birggis Birgir of Þórarinsson, Leví Gunnarsson, and Inga Sæland Land. Then there's an audience on the budget board, Þorstein Víglundsson, who agrees with this opinion, and who writes on it. I see now there's more than a minute left. I think there are some things in this bill that are unexpected and unpredictable, but too many things are not. In any case, there may have been many things that would have to explain much better that should have been in the budget bill rather than in the budget or that the reserves should cover it. We must not contribute to the success of the ministers'leading the back door to the government box as they have for many years. I hope that the bill will always make the budget road less or less. I think that each financial committee agrees entirely with wanting to see small and short-sufficient financial bills but then we also have to stand a little on our feet, especially when it comes to matters that are indistinguishably totally in gray areas. There may be many things that make us bicker, and we do not always agree on what is unseen and what is to be expected. But there's still too many things here, even though it's better now than last year, and even better now than in the otherifyr, who are in the gray zone, so I don't talk any more than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u114	Mr. President. I'd like to lay out for that point of yours. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson came at the beginning of his speech, that the basis for the budget of 2019 all of this is based on sand. I'd like to review with the senator what happened here in the previous half of the year, much more than in March. First, we received an announcement that there would be a failure of fur, which in history has always been bad. And then a few days go by. We'll have an announcement that Icelands will shut down the entire 737 Max engine of the club. There is still a still zone, and uncertainty continues beyond a year, with the latest information, which is large and large. Then it may take two weeks to report the fall of WOW air, the union going bankrupt, which is a huge case. This occurs in March, the first half of the year. How were fortune - tellers, or people working around the budget, to predict that all of this would happen? Should we assume this? I've never understood how. The members of the council here believe that this should have been arranged. This is the basis for economic growth in the current year, predicted last year to be 2.6%, to be 0.2%, to be less than 3%, which in general, would have been a major failure for the Icelandic economy. Yet, it's only amazingly good in the way things are going. Then the key point is just, and I'd like to ask you why. A member of Parliament: How were we to anticipate all these major presidents I just listed as being different? If everything had been right, these three points, it wouldn't have been much of this money. And the money never worked so well. These are three basics, these are the biggest, and then there are individual judgments and other circumstances that I may take in a second answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u115	Mr. President. I'm not asking why. Parliamentaries can read the future in every respect. But when the budget was passed and discussed last year, it was not just the Consequences and other political groups who said that the 2019 budget was too optimistic. Business organizations said the same thing. The same thing said business. It's the same thing the People said. This is the same as other unions pointed out. This is the same as financial counsel, which is an independent phenomenon commanded by the Ministry of finance, said. The chairmans of the budget - and now I'm not talking about individual traumas but about the big numbers - were criticized by so many authorities for being too optimistic. Overgrowth was expected here. Unchanged gangs were expected to be in the kroner. Unchanged oil prices and almost unchanged unemployment were expected. It's all the talk we had last fall before fur failure, by the fall of WOW, I know it. Yet, these were points we pointed to. There is also a need to know the practicality as well. We said that it would be extremely unwise to expect a steady economy for 14 years. It's just never happened since Iceland was built, but that was the key to last year's budget. That's what I'm criticizing. Of course, I do not expect to do so. A senator provides a fragrant crack. I'm not saying that at all. I'm just saying the big underpriests were small. It was pointed out by a number of sources. I still believe that the basis for the budget we've just taken up, 2020, is too optimistic too. I know exactly what to do. While members of Congress support national and national forecasts, they notice that we too can look to predictions other than theirs. I think the basis and the entire budget are all too much for wishful thinking that everything is going the best way. [[The president calls.]] But this often does not happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u116	Mr. President. The three points I listed earlier are exactly the big case of the year in what we are discussing about the funds, the budgets, and the budgets of the coming year. These are the big cases, these three points I mentioned. Hv. A senator refers to an oil price in the world. Neither we nor any person in Iceland can really predict the price of oil. We'll just take the prophecy of the world. We do not have to predict whether oil will be on $64 that year, or if it will be $50 or 80. It's just an external force. On the budget board, no matter what. Senators are holding, unable to handle it. I'm talking about these big three things. If the three major factors had been followed, it wouldn't have been hairy, WOW wouldn't have failed, and Max Icelanda wouldn't have remained calm, I'm thinking it had been going pretty well, as predicted. [[The president calls.]] The currency market that fell with WOWair is expected to be about 801⁄290 billion, predicted this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u117	Mr. President. I think I've been pretty clear here. I don't expect to what. A senator can predict exactly what events will occur, but it can be expected that things will not go wrong. A senator assumes. We've been calling for more detailed imaging and so forth. Hv. A senator says there's some fine results here. The swing was 43 billion in 2019. Instead of less than 30 billion dollars. The rest of government funds will be up to 15 billion. Of course, I know that some individual traumas account for it. But for God's sake, why can't we? People did not listen to the warnings that fell, not only from my lips or from other members of Congress but also from experts? It was repeatedly said that the basis for the budget was too optimistic. That's where I'm talking about the big premiums. I don't expect you to be able to figure out what happened, but don't pretend that you haven't heard any voices that the basis for the budget is unrealistic. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It was repeated to you and can be found in almost every story we received last year during the 2019 budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u118	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Ólafur Ágúst Ágústsson's speech He took his lead in reviewing my committee's opinion. It's a legal committee, and I can agree with a lot of things. A senator went over, including Twenty-six. legal on public financial matters and the points that have repeatedly been published in talks about the need for unexpected, unpredictable, and inevitable expenses. We're very busy talking about this, because it's a certain amount and it's supposed to be. I can agree with many other things, for example. An overview of the provision of reserves that we also entered into a committee study and feel it is necessary to examine. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson, vice president of the night. The money committee, went over well, so I'm not going to trace it. This is shown in a committee study of much of it. There's a lot of agreements about a lot of things. I'm going to pass, at least In the previous answer, we're going over the economics every year. Senator. I wouldn't last the answer. Hv. A senator reviewed the state's review of the budget bill and reviewed its tips, but she missed reviewing what might be the key phrase. I'm going to read it, with president's permission: It is the National Review assessment that the available bill is essentially in accordance with the rules of the law No. 123/2015 on official financial matters.◯ It was important to me that this also appeared. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u119	Mr. President. It's about drawing it out - in all principle but not 100%. That's what I'm pointing at. Why do we obey the law in principle, but why do we not just obey the law? If we agree that the church does not belong there, why does it have financial aid? We don't have to agree on all the things I listed that shouldn't be in financial law, but why can't we take out something that doesn't belong there? The law is clear, this needs to be unpredictable, and there is no other way to respond. I'm not trying to get a political blow to the board. No media is particularly interested in this discussion. We're talking about reserves, general reserves and transfers. All I'm calling is that, no matter what group we are, we will be together to obey the law on public finances to the limit. I know things are coming right, but we can take bigger steps and faster. There is progress in public financial laws, and I think there is much positive change in their approval, but there are still some dessert plans, which I think we can all agree on, at least we on the budget, send a clear message to the Ministers not to be tolerated. As I'm saying, this is not the new problem of this government. I've been very supportive of governments who have had swollen funds. This is a technical debate, however, which matters, since this is something the legislature authority needs to stick together with the Commission. The minister will always find a way to try to use this warrant by putting something in financial aid that does not belong there under the law. [[The president calls.]] Laws don't give us room, they feed us. We can debate what is unpredictable, but church expenses are not unpredictable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u120	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's answers. Yes, the church is, as we have seen, and it certainly appeared in the context of Our Kingdom Accounting, a very special matter. We know this from a discussion during the past 24 hours. It's a little rough, let's just say that contracts have been opened, so it's kind of tough, as I put it, to put money in next year when we don't have a deal. I hope we'll go out and see what's going on in that case. I think there's more harmony and I can agree with it with the law. The fact is, though, that we can still improve the work done - and that is in the opinion of the committees of both parts and smaller parts - the scope of the budget has never been less. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u121	Mr. President. Well, that's less, fortunately, it's getting better, but the use of human reserves needs to be considered. It was quoted here as saying State Accounting, but it's not just about the church. National Reconnaissance also points out the fiber optics, tilting the Hospital, the foreign hospital costs, and the national stadium. There are some things that the State Accounting says could not be shown in any other way. It's not just the church, I don't want people at home watching this fun discussion to think it's just a unique matter. There are other issues that State Accounting points out that they do not belong in budgets but in budgets or reserves. That's what I'm trying to draw out. I think we're gonna do what. A senator would agree that we want this cleaner than it is here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u122	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator before history, and I feel that it is a significant milestone that the lesser part now contributes to one of the committee's opinion and congratulates the less part on it. I think it's, as I say, a matter of breakthrough that it's been captured. In substance, I intend to, in my previous answer, do a little work on the subject. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson In any case, it's something that I could have agreed with, and it's quite consistent with the opinion of a greater part of the legal committee, letting go of the fact that we can talk a lot about whether the terms of the budget were correct and whether we should have gone this way or the other way. I am holding what I have previously said in this discussion. At a certain point, there is simply a shift, and it is used to measure specific predictions to build on the budget. The major anomalies are unexpected and unpredictable, and this makes the memory a good subject for discussion in its members' list. What I might want to talk to you about. A member of my previous stand is how we get into the better way of using the reserves and the general reserves and the reserves of lawsuits and whether they can fit in with what we're doing in our committee party. I think that's a good match, you know, with the less share in that subject. I'm just going to say, finally, the mass of church meetings and unexpected and unforeseen occurrences. You see, there's a point that they were arguing about a deal. We could not assume that the state could have made compensations for the state's funds by court, so it would have been completely unexpected and unpredictable. [[The president calls.]] This dispute is solved today, and we're taking care of it, and hopefully we won't be in front of such a contribution in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u123	Mr. President. Only about the church. I'm warm to the church, and I'm holding on to it. A talk about how warm I am to her yesterday and perhaps I'm not going to spend much time with her. But what I was talking about is that the church seems to be coming in all of the budgets, not just in these funds. It also came on budgets of 2018, 2017, and 2016. Since 2015 is the government law, I wondered about this. We must get out of these bikes, that the church is always getting into financial aid laws. I don't suppose she wants to land there, but as I understand it, these are the last financial laws where the church hangs up. With the reserve, yes, I agree. We need only look at the use of reserves, as well as the general and equal reserves of litigation. The book of the law is not particularly thorough, e.g. For the use of the reserves of litigation classes. It just refers to the unexpected expenses. Like at least I understand the law's conditions for the use of the common reserve more narrow than it can be for me. I also remind you that a minister was going to set up some regulations on the use of reserves. Am I not right that I haven't yet? The last time I knew, at least, I'm looking at Leví Björn. No. Right. The following points to the Constitution, including the year 2000. they're calling after the bill we're discussing here, it would have been desirable for us to have received an overview of the provision and status of reserves during the year, apart from the discussion that some mercenaries do not seem to have a reserve. But maybe we're moving in the right direction. Hv. A senator specifically commented that it would be a pleasure to have the government side together with the committee. Yes, it is particularly enjoyable, I think, and even more pleasant in view of the senator's words that he could have even signed many things in this committee party. Perhaps we can all have just one common opinion each year. That might be wishful. It's not right-left, it's not a political case at all. I am, as I could in the past, not trying to catch you guys up on something like that. [[The president calls.]] It's not that kind of thing, far from here, so I think we could be on the road here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u124	Mr. President. That's what I've been doing because of the last words that came out of my mouth. A senator in his previous stand. In many ways, we are merely discussing technology and how we perform these laws, and of course it is an indistinguishable debate in itself. In principle, however, the representatives of a budget board have a clear view of how to better control the financial resources we have. I just want to point out, just like what's happened. The chairman of the legal committee responded. A senator earlier, in his review of the budget proposal, says that, in all principle, this law is under way. But then there are some transfers, and I just have to say, because of what the senator has to say on the subject of wire transfers, it's essentially just cross-overs within segregations. Perhaps it should have been sooner to light warning lights for us on the budget board to make a comment, since these are, in fact, changes between projects rather than extra funds. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u125	Mr. President. Well, since Christmas is getting closer, I'm just gonna end up with my answer later, saying that I can join a lot of committees at the end of the section. There are a lot of things I agree with, first of all. A senator would like to agree with at least something in our committee list in the smaller section. [[Up front.]] There's a lot of good in your committee party too. Only on Government Accounting. As I said before, there are six notes, not just one joint. These are all the points they point out that they can do better. The world does not go anywhere next to these expenses, and many of these projects are just self-employed. Again, though, it is just this fundamental question: Are we following the law to the limit or not? What I've been doing here is that I feel a lot gray. However, the year will hopefully be even fewer points as Our Reconclusions and others point out that we are in a gray area and that it would be unthinkable that next year's budget, the last year of this government, will simply be on temporary, inevitable, and unpredictable expenses. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u126	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill for financial support by 2019 C.E. First, I'd like to thank you for the talks being conducted here, including the history of a whale. A senator and vice president of the Fundament Committee, the Haraldur son of Benediktsson, who was highly familiar with the opinion of more in his historical history. I don't have much to add to it, but I want to get to the clock a few things. Before I start with them, I'd like to thank you for your debate. paritaprevir Ágúst the son of Ólafur Ágústsson, who reviewed the committee's opinion of my things. As noted in the answers, there are several factors, even many, that are consistent and that we want to improve a general system of work that is a means of finance and budgeting, including the bill for financial support as specified and conditional terms. Twenty-six. it's a government law. First, I want to enter a large budget that is a direct goal to reduce. The percentage of primary expenditures, except for irregular joints applied in the bill, is about 0.5% of total budgets and has not been lower in years. Over the years in 1998-2008, the comparable mean financial interest abnormalities were about 5% of the primary expenditures. It can be said that maintenance has increased dramatically over the years, and I think it can be traced back to 2008, 2009, 2010, that the scope and support have helped to improve the work done in this regard. The event I mentioned averaged 1.6% in 2009-2016, with a ratio of 0.7% last year. If we examine these proportions, it can be said that the aim of a government law was to reduce the impact of budgetary laws. Second, I would like to introduce the role of reserves to the point that they are, of course, meant to be used to reduce this scale, and rightly the smaller item here is a question of how we look at these proportions. I can totally agree with that. It is not one - sided social security numbers that tell us whether we are reaching our goals or not. We may need to consider this more clearly in the budget, but we need to get a better hold of the reserve and build them up. I'd like to mean that once we're able to build them up completely and use the general reserve, they'll reduce the size of the product. The public reserve is 1% of charge clearance. I think that it may just have to push this mechanism and teach advisers and their staff in the councils to use as early as the middle of a year's spare reserves or to resort to other resources, as it is appropriate to use sources, transfer documents that have fallen, and less need to resort to means of financial support. We hear a lot about ecstatic points, however, that I'd like to mean giving certain resources that are temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable. The goal we look at must be that it simply does not need to provide a bill for a contribution each year. That must be the maximum goal. Third, I want to introduce what has been mentioned in the discussion in connection with a nine - month resolution. Experience within the year shows that despite what I've been doing here, the Ministry and the Directors must constantly monitor a business position and be ready to take action when needed. So far, there are both intermediate contributions, I mentioned a six - month resolution, and this generally too late to be really useful as a financial committee. It would be great to be on the move in time with the showdown and an updated overview of the use of reserves. Hv. The head of the greater part did just fine. It is desirable to correct the situation. I've come up mostly, a respectable president, to account for the changes made on a piece of paper. 686 which is presented in my name. In this way it can be explained as soon as it appears at 2 Timothy 3: 1. Um., I guess we'd have to call the case between the 2nd and 3rd. and review the motion. I just thought I should do it this way and go over it at 2nd. Here's a suggestion to give 353 million. K. in an investment system of 09.10 which is law enforcement, including to promote the police in its action against organized violations. This is an investment or payment warrant that would prevent unexpected revenues. The proposal assumes that part of the benefits taken up as a result of the joint research operation by the U.S. and Icelandic government in what has been called Silk Road and its source, the share of Iceland in that case was 353 million. K., be ordered to promote the police, especially in their actions against organized violations. Is the enterprise primarily for the purchase of equipment and for promoting police technology in this fight against organized crime. It is true to say that the income is already in, but it was impossible to provide the spending rights so that income can be used. So this is not really a change in the quality of life, or it is a low income in a bank account. The bottom line is that in 2013 the Ministry of Justice received a court order from the U.S. Department of Justice for an investigation into the market of illicit drugs and other illegal activities known as Silk Road. Police in the capital area provided considerable assistance, and eventually the requested page was taken down and considerable funds were made up in the form of the virtual currency of the Bitcoin. In the past, the help of Icelandic law enforcement agencies was a key factor in the elimination of Silk Road and the discovery of the real owner of the page. According to the U.S. government's hearing of sharing the benefits of the investigation of the case with the Icelandic government, including the U.S. government, was followed by the trial. On the basis of two international contracts by the United Nations, the Palerm Convention, and the Treaty against the illegal drug trade and the psychoinhibiting agents both involved in Iceland and the United States. Again, the final amount is now available to the Icelandic government in the fall, which paid 353 billion. K., i.e. of the overall benefits raised by the investigation. He's about 15%. The government has agreed that the value of this benefit should be taken into account to promote the police in its activities against organized crime. As I went over earlier, this is a response so that the money can be used, to follow, as must be done, a payment warrant, an investment donation. I wanted to explain the proposal at 2 Peter 3: 1. Um... if we had to bring the matter up to 3rd. to review it so that others were making the adjustment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u127	A respectable president. We're dealing with budgets, and I come up mainly to deal with the chairman of the legal committee. I thank him that his committee saw the light, the light that has lacked much. It is evident that the jungle can be reduced by taxes, impairments, and chain reductions. These extras contain 10,000 bucks. tax and inaccessible to micro-energy pensioners. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether this is not just a vision, e.g. In terms of the next budget, that there will be no extra funds. For example, the next budget will be paid, for example. A Christmas bonus with no tax and no impairment. If it had been for the poor, they would be getting so much as unemployed, but perhaps only one fourth of what we receive. [[The president calls.]] It would be great if this were a policy, and then some new direction would be here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u128	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for his counter-sponsored response. Hv. A senator named 10,000 kns. supplementary payment intended for micro-energy and rehabilitation personnel. This is an additional payment, a December supplement, equal to others, and an increase in December by those entitled to it. You're absolutely right. A senator points out that we needed a proposal in question No. 2 that we already agreed to. The adjustment proposal called for for the change in funds makes it possible to be paid out in the past year. Well, it's a real way, if that's what it is, without income. [[The president calls.]] At that time, she does not immediately end up with the severely impaired teeth of her teeth. A senator has so many times gone over.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u129	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's answers. We need to realize that special compensation for housing support, and housing support itself, has reduced such improvements. We were there a year ago or a year ago to pay taxes and to cut that kind of strength, so something's coming. Now I've found this way, and as I say, I hope so badly that the way is taken away from the shoes has been made out of the way, because people are being fooled and badly treated when they're being brought some money from the state to which they're supposed to be involved, but they end up with a measure of impairment, a special review, and something else, until this ends in zero. In fact, people lose because they think they're getting money and spending it. This is a real problem for people. I hope it's come to be because it's never happened before, I don't think, which I've seen, that this way has been found to get out money and give it to disability, 10,000 bucks, no tax, and nothing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u130	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I don't have much to add. He makes it clear which way was good. On a financial committee, we looked over this and wondered how we could achieve this ten thousand dollars, which is certainly not a large sum, but it was important to make a complete contribution. During our financial work, we had a good conversation with a representative of the Quantum Community and pondered their fine report and reviewed a number of factors they pointed out in their review, where we might react as a committee. I think it's done quite well, at least in this solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u131	A respectable president. I scratch a little in my head for the fun change of fashion on the threshing floor. 658. This is the income that falls in unexpectedly, and it was decided to put them in an investment donation, which, in view of the announcement I received by e - mail after the committee had finished, could easily move from year to year and interesting things. I see this as nothing more than a decision to make a monologue, not a financial deal like that. I can't quite figure out how this matter is reasoned with any of the financial benefits it brings. I'd love to hear that argument over by reason. Chairman of the budget board. I can also make myself happy. The chairman of the budget committee by calling just after the case returned to the committee between the 2nd and 3rd. So that's out of the question. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u132	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The reply of Björn Leví Gunnlaugsson's bear. I'm sure I'd always like to meet with what. Senator. The mission is enough, and then we can review it better. But we already brought her in here and we can talk about it. What I said was that my income certainly came in unexpectedly. It was known that the police, who evidently made quite an assembly on this project, were working on it, but their income came in the fall. It was the government's decision that the police should benefit from this in order to do this vital work. Then it's an unexpected income. But what wasn't to be done was to give a warrant, but like a whale. A senator knows very well his work on the budget, and that's what we're doing here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u133	A respectable president. That is my question: How are these unexpected expenses? This is a special decision to set up new budgets, and this is not one of the conditions that must be met under official financial laws. This meets the requirement to be temporary, not unexpected or unpredictable. It is clear that the police need this equipment, but it was not made up of financial policy or financial initiatives to meet that need. After all, I wondered, " Should I obey the laws on public finances or not? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u134	V.E.G. President. Hv. Of course, a senator can very well answer that question himself. Of course, we are applying the laws on public financial matters. It is obvious that income is unexpected, and thus there is an unexpected payment warrant to be followed. Neither the police expected this or the government, nor any decision had been made. It was unexpected. Then there is the question of how we employ our income, and if our income is unexpected, then the source that is likely to have to follow is unexpected. You're absolutely right. A senator, if it's an investment donation, and the need is to find out what is needed and where to buy equipment, etc., is in such cases too reasonable to move an investment from year to year. In no way can a senator claim that this is not a legal law on public finances. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u135	Mr. President. I'm in the same area as what I'm doing. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, to wonder exactly about this. It seems, then, that the main explanation of these additional expenses is that a coin was found. I strongly support the police, and actually I think it's good to find that the police are benefiting from their historical success in a study there and eventually the financial resources that are set up there. But I wondered about this from the framework of the law on public finances. These are not unexpected expenses that were inevitable or could not be dealt with in any other way. Rather, it is determined to build up for them because money was found. It's a little special to me if it's generally possible for a member of the State to be able to uphold the government's laws on public finances that we can make new decisions on expenses because of the potential for such a person. aggressive power has become higher than expected. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u136	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Víglundsson of the question. Yeah, it came in an unexpected income, that's exactly right. It happened. Hv. A senator knows this as well as I do that income will be no more than a bill of payment. That's the way it is. We are responding, and that income came in this year, this fall. The decision was made to get into this team so that the police could benefit from it because we are fighting organized crime and have to update equipment. The decision was made to make good use of this unexpected income. However, there was no attempt to include in the accounting warrants, and we are reacting to it here. That's the way it is. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u137	Mr. President. I'm not really trying to get it together. Chairman of the budget board. I just wondered about it from general guidelines. In this case, you will lose, e.g. fines in the state fund, not as a provision for the police. So I don't know what the police are doing, so I might rather ask myself, " Is it not better to give some public income, income, or share in income that will be earned, e.g. fines or films of money like this. It simply goes to the police in a defined way, causing the release or authority to return. These are mainly speculations because in the form I do not see that this is especially fitting for the fundamental principles proposed in the civil law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u138	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson for his answer and his cheek. I may have fallen into some mode, but I don't feel like there's something or anything trying to get my head off. But once you start to respond repeatedly to your best judgment, you may become more firm in word. I think it's a bit of a problem and, of course, we're a little bit of a problem, as may have been shown in the discussion here, and we've often discussed the committee, to think of some degree how to maintain an estimatory basis. We're dealing with this equal hand. I can't really answer this better than last year's answer. But I find these speculations quite worthwhile, and I totally understand the point. [[The president calls.]] I'm sure we'll discuss this better. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson has called this case back by the 3rd. Then we can take this discussion further.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u139	Mr. President. Thank you. For the talk, a senator and chairman of the budgetary committee, Willum Þór Þórsson. I wanted to come only to one of the points he mentioned, and he said in a way that no doubt it was necessary to teach officials or advisers to use the reserve. I find this a little interesting because it seems that the Ministry is either unwilling to submit to these new financial regulations or that they are not aware of how to use the reserve. I find it interesting what he mentioned here, asking how he saw that we would try to teach, so to speak, and better inform those who come to these matters about how the law really works. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u140	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For answer the Birgir of Þórarinsson. It's a discussion we've taken a lot out of the Committee, and it's something that we on the committee want to work with. Hv. A senator made it clear that I had said ◯kenna◯. Maybe it's because I've been working as a teacher for so many years that I use that word. This is said to be much better at the Commission's study of the greater part, specifically stating that the Committee suggests that the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs is acting in a more systematic presentation of operations for the individual Ministry, the Department of Justice, and the Ministry. Let's work through the Ministry so that we improve the work programme and use our telecommunications tools more fully. I think that, by that, the Commission would get a better view of the problems we had with the council and we wouldn't get all of this on the final meters. [[The president calls.]] I think that's perhaps merely what I was drawing out, what is presented in a committee party.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u141	Mr. President. Thank you. A good answer from a senator. I agree with him. I think this factor just didn't start out well enough when the law was accepted at the time. In this regard, I'd also like to mention that I think it's also necessary to discuss this estimating factor that we're talking about here and back, what's up with the budget and what's not. Hopefully, within a short period of time, we realize that there is no need for a bill for financial aid like that. A senator mentioned. I agree that it is, of course, our goal, and we will achieve this goal only when everyone cooperates, and it is properly presented as mentioned in the committee's opinion. [[The president calls.]] I think it's the key to achieving a normal job with these fine laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u142	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For answer the Birgir of Þórarinsson. First and foremost, I thank him for drawing this out. This is important. I think this is something we can add, at least In terms of the funds, financial support bill, this aspect of public financial law, the use of reserves, and transfers. The commission is to put it into practice, and we need to be on the move sooner. The committee needs an overview of the use of reserves. The reserve needs to be used, and it needs to be used earlier, from the middle of a year, so that we already get an overview of them and how they are used, on which keys they go, etc. so that we regularly have an updated summary of the use of these reserves. I have no doubt that this would simply strengthen the entire budget of the financial process. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u143	A respectable president. Temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable, and unable to respond by other means, as it were. Let us keep this in mind only because these are the conditions set before the use of reserves and funds. The purpose of the government's law on public finances is to set up a financial policy and assume total budgets for each sector and then a legal case. They are, in effect, trying to eliminate this use of budgetary songs by first resorting to reserves and finishing them at least ... beforethere'sa budget. But they're still here, we're still in it, mostly because there's not enough accurate plans. Some say it worked very well, it was impossible to predict WOW's fall and stuff like that. This is not true, however, for as shown in the introduction of the memory of the part, all sides predicted that the basis for the economy and the budget was far beyond plan. Still, no one could tell exactly what reasons would be needed for, of course not, that would have been supernatural prophesying, but all sensed the weaknesses in the economy, whether a bank or WOW, or a hairy thing would break, it was not easy to guess exactly. Everyone who predicted the prospects and grounds of financial laws assumed that something would be missing, even the tourist industry that might do so in some way. It didn't matter exactly where that hit came from but that it came - just as any client said it would. What is to be expected in general on terms of budgetary management is to be based on economic forecasts and to be careful. Yes, it means that the economy is built on the ground, but when all other reformers and fortune - tellers say that it's kind of too high, careful and sound assumptions should be put down, they should use the visual images that are all equal to mere pessimism. This is the basic theme of a baseline law on official financial matters regarding financial and financial matters. What interests me is that now that we're dealing with a budget bill it's not in accordance with official financial legislation, considering how to provide public funds in relation to policy, goals, and measurable results. It's just a budget bill like that under the old financing bill. It does not say: This will meet the objective of 2 or more policy-making under the topic of the elderly or something similar. It is not a weakness in certain government procedures but, as I said, some other factors are not fully explained and unsatisfactory whether they meet the criteria for public finances to be temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable. For example, a budget for the State rights of 8 million is for the government's decision to seek legal assistance in Britain to create a memo or to provide support for its application to the Supreme Court of Human Rights. It is a decision for increased financial resources, which is not really supported by government policies or government goals or in some way due to financial contributions. What will be the result of this provision? Does she see the result that all the judgments so far were wrong, that they were turning that conclusion? Is that what we should want after all? Is it some kind of lesson that a minister of judicial matters is capable of practicality, since the evidence in question was not transmitted, replaced by the appointing of new judges in the judicial system here? Is that not the very conclusion we should want, i.e. That a minister of justice can do such things only with sufficient support? Therefore, I have a very limited understanding of the request for increased financial authority on the National Court. In the first place, this does not serve any goals, policies, or purpose, and does not bring benefits, and second, these are 8 million who should, if all expenses meet the requirement to be temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable, to be easily confined to reserves, long before they enter the chamber. I'd like to mention in the greater context of 69 Gr. Act on social security. It stipulates that the minimum amount of pension should be increased according to the index of consumer prices or pay development, whichever is higher. This is always done at the beginning of the year. But there is never a mood at the end of the year. If you are going to explain in all other areas how something was unpredictable, e.g. I don't understand why they don't correct the 69th paragraph. By the end of the year, we know the correct development of pay or inflation. If it's not on budgets, at least ... tofinishit for next year. The result of this legal procedure is that the current pension is 50% lower than it should be in terms of both pay development and inflation since 1997, it reminds me. It tells you a lot about priorities after all. I'd like to cover just the reserve and the 30th parr. the law on government financial transfers between years. It's so remarkable, as you can see, that this 30th parr is not taken very seriously. Something's done, and you can't see it in the bonus. On the other hand, you can see suggestions on how to make money change in the budget that would definitely belong to less than 30. ...re.,aplants moved from year to year because plans failed. The minister should take appropriate action to meet the weaknesses of financial resources. The first thing he's supposed to do is try to bring money between lawsuits or to resort to a seminary if that is appropriate, if it meets the conditions that are larger than that, which are larger than that, e.g. about the general reserves, or the budgets. I don't know that we've been notified of such distribution, it's definitely been made, but it hasn't been specifically discussed. Yet, we have often talked about a closer look at the legal committees as to how we carry out a law on public finances. The use of these legislations is out of view and how the budgets for this year wander from year to year, how the swing is. If every year's zero setting is always extremely difficult to learn from historical data about how good the plans are. You have to look at the difference between budgets, budgets, change options, etc. It's not just how the budget ended that year, it's enough to consider the changes as well. The original plan was budgeted, and if you're going to see the difference between next year's work, it's not enough to consider how the budget ended compared to the budget. The original budget has to be checked to see what the plan was, not how the plan was handled by means of financial aid. That is exactly how much it plays into the council's surveillance role, and I don't feel that it's working well enough. Budgets under budget and budget should be surmounted by measurable targets and cost-benefit analysis. This is so that we can ask exactly, " Why is this cost so much, and what do we get out of it? ' What is the point of making the decision to post funds in Project A or Project B? In particular, we have a problem and to solve it, we have a staged picture A, B and C with a variety of entries. For example, in the capital area over the years or decades, a basic forecast of an increase in traffic charm was made. It was considered a problem that needed to be solved. A laboratory was designed to look at specific scenarios: What if we were to build our root - building system more fully? What if we just build our public transportation system better? How does a mixed route, either small or high structure, come about? Then options can be compared. I'm reminded that small structure of infrastructure and public transportation was the third best solution to traffic charms, while the greatest structure in stockways and public transport was naturally the best. It's just a question of how much money people are willing to contribute to solving the problem. It gives you a direct answer to what is available. It is a relatively easy choice in relation to those forms. In this way we are to win both financial and financial schemes as well as financial funds. That's what's missing here. With regard to financial planning and government policy, the sum of the funds should be no different from the budget. In the end, decisions in funding also play into this process that ends in the annual reports of Ministers: How did we reach the goals we set for ourselves? What was the gain of using these funds and using public tax money to solve problems A, B or C, or whatever? There is no need for financial contributions to government policy. For example, some financial requests are reasoned with regard to conditions where expenses are temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable. I recall, though, that in no case has it been explained how the request fulfilled all of the requirements. As you read the suggestions, you may be able to fill in the gaps. You can understand how this operation is temporary even though it is not explained or reasoned, but I feel that it still needs to be reasoned. You need to say what you may feel is obvious, that you need to be evident, but that is not said. This is what I asked for in the processing of the budget bill. The answers were simply: See the report on a budget bill. However, the reason why I asked was that I felt that the evidence support in the bill was inadequate and did not explain or support all the cases needed to meet the requirements. I feel that every single source of money should be clear with reason on all these differences, temporarily, unpredictable and inevitable, and how they could not have responded by other means. We should be able to go through that list and say, "Yes, no, yes, no, etc. How interesting it would be to go through with the committee for reasons or reasons! There are different ways in which people understand logic. Maybe I'd say it was unpredictable, but some other member of the committee said the same would be very predictable. Then we need to reason on whether the relevant authority is within the law on government finances or not and what happens if we decide to say: No, it's not a warrant right here. What does this mean in view of the budget for the year? Meaning that the joint is moving according to the 30th grade. Is a minister going to take other measures? If a minister could do so, why not immediately? This is what is missing in the management of budgets. I repeat, I'm calling the budget bill in to a committee and I expect to see this evidence support for every single budget requested in the budget. I just think it's a simple and for granted. I understand there's a meeting at the time. It'll be very interesting to see how things are going. Finally, I'd like to use my last minute just to mention that in the history talk of the greater part of the budget bill, it's decided that the sum of money is much smaller than it goes and happens, rarely has it been so small and that it's going so well. I can totally say that there are things going the right way. I note, though, that the message in the majority view of the government is: Do better. At the same time, that's the best you can do. There are adjustments that do not depend on exactly what is being asked by the government to do better. I think it's a little hypocritical. I have to say it, just to get it away from me as accurately as I can. You have nothing to be ashamed of, that's just the way it is, and you have no problem with it. It has to be done better because it does not help to say: No, it's okay. We have to be able to have the conversation and accept that it is right. It's not unpredictable. After all, the U.S. General has the jurisdiction. The government needs to abide by government laws on public finances, but the Council is in a slightly different place. I think it's a discussion that we're going to take in terms of public financial laws, where the World Health Authority is within the laws on public finance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u144	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir His speech was given to Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. As in earlier talks tonight, I can totally agree with many of the points presented, but that's all. I just have to admit, I think I'm sorry. A senator is full of speculative chapters, and perhaps dramatic. Of course, we are discussing this seriously, and of course we take it seriously. Because of what? However, I'd like to find out that this bill is just like the previous budget. There are mainly two groups that can be drawn out there, and it actually shows up in a paper with the bill. Here we are not making changes on the income side, but we are considering what is going on in the economic environment and hitting on income, and different income farms. But there are no changes to the gate of income, nor is there any change in the flow of boiling and goods. These are primarily proposed to make changes in donations available to case classes for which increased funds are needed. This is what I wanted to draw out. Of course, we can always do better, such as our noses in a committee list of things. Hv. A member of the court's Office of Justice 10:04 made a motion of about 8 billion. K. It's a trust fund. I don't have time to discuss it, time goes by so fast, but the conversation will continue and we'll discuss it more at a meeting when and if this discussion ends.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u145	A respectable president. Compared with previous budgets, it is still accurate enough to tell you that it is exactly the same. From the point of view that I'm looking at, in view of public financial laws, in terms of financial planning and budgets, which are supposed to be objective and objective, measurable etc., there is nothing about it on the budget bill. The format of the requested funds is just exactly the same as in previous budgets. That's where my point of comparison ends. You can point out that your income isn't there, and so on, which is the difference, but I'm not even close to trying to compare it together, I'm looking at this target. I feel that this is really the official problem, in a nutshell. The chairman of the legal committee says that this is a form of proposals requiring increased funds. It's just not exactly the way the public financial law assumes to win a budget bill. It is not temporary, unpredictable, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u146	With that condition.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u147	I tell it on these terms, on temporary, unpredictable and inevitable, is not the same as the need for increased funds. There are always lots of explanations that could be given a little more money here and there, but it's not the purpose of the reserves or of the budgets to meet the need for additional financial resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u148	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Only out of the words of why. A senator on the need for money: I brought it up because it's not where we're moving the number of litigations, but where needed. This, then, is based on terms of budgets, unexpected, inevitable, and temporary spending, such as 26. Make the call. But I was only going to review these eight million, I think that's a good example, a standard, and the general way we do it in budgets and funds. It was a common opinion that this was a very important matter for Iceland's interest, and now I refer to the majority opinion of the legal committee and, in fact, a very important case for the judicial action of the upper branch of the European Court of Human Rights on Article 6. European Convention of Human Rights. As a result, it was considered inevitable to get the case a larger law firm and a professional opinion, and that can be very well understood. [[The president calls.]] It's probably temporary, and I guess there's a situation that has evolved and came up unexpectedly. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] They did not necessarily see the need to seek out foreign counselors, so this is a good example, but, of course, we are here to discuss some of the estimating factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u149	The President reminds me of why. A senator is to watch out for a speech lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u150	A respectable president. Since increased funds are needed on that basis, why? Senator. I'm criticizing that some of the resources that are sought do not match those conditions but are simply due to a general need for an expansion. That's why I'm asking for support. There is no inevitable need to consult this Supreme Court of Human Rights. It could also have been a decision to accept the decision. It would have been a very good conclusion to the judicial system as it does because we should not want a justice minister who will interfere with the order of the judges in the court case. We shouldn't want to. But it is political situations that somehow demand this conclusion, and it is political, not inevitable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u151	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. A public review will make some comments to this production on budgets. We know that accountants speak with caution, but it was quite clear that Government Accounting does not approve of this approach, e.g. in a contribution to the National Church. I think it can be explained from the comment that this arrangement is simply not in accordance with official financial laws. Since this is the last time we've delivered this particular budget in this way - but we've made a few short years, it's the most predictable inexplicable payoff force in recent years - it may not be a reason to make a big deal of it here. What I'm thinking about, though, is, and what I'm more concerned about is the second thing that a state retrospective makes a point, that it's drawing a considerable part of the common reserve from the growing expenses in budgets. It is reasonable to note that it would be best to take out a certain bank member simply and move straight to a general reserve and not be involved in the budget. I'm just wondering, what? A senator feels about this arrangement in general. Here we are creating an example, this has not been done before, not that I recall, and, of course, we are still slightly influenced by the example in the manner in which we conduct these laws, but is somehow being drawn to the council by some means responsible, for e.g. Many of these teams being picked up in the budget simply do not hold up when it comes to the standards set out in the civil law on what is considered to be in terms of paying expenses? What do you think? A senator on this arrangement?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u152	A respectable president. I take this into consideration in a way that condemns other changes in proposals today in these unscheduled and unexpected incomes made for some kind of investment rights. It's probably so easy, under government law, to present investment warrants between years of age that it's somehow okay. They were putting this in a really weird box. So I'll try to turn the argument around: If we put our budgets for the next year on the next budget, wouldn't it be a similar training exercise in financial practice, for example. This equipment, but would they move money over the annual budget so that the sheriff would use the opportunity now, perhaps because there was some huge December discount to buy these equipment? After all, a police officer could use practicality as a reason to buy, for example. In December of December, relevant equipment according to the financial resources he owned in 2020, next year. I don't know if it fits in between those years. Perhaps it should be flexible in this regard, but with the reserve, I don't see the flexibility, and I find it incredibly strange to bring many of these funds to the council instead of putting them in reserves earlier. [[The president calls.]] I'll get to it a little bit better later.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u153	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. There's another aspect, too, that Government Accounting makes publicity, and I know it. A senator knows well, for it is sometimes like trying to pull it out by shrugs, and that is an overview of the provision of reserves, both general reserves, and much less the reserves of individual proverbs. The majority of the shares have an average of Some pride is that there is now much less isolated from the financial system than there have been in the past. It's actually 43 billion swingers, but let's not make it a subject here. These are substantial sources, 1% in the general reserve, up to 2% in the legal reserve. It speaks of a much less variations in the budget than before, but the reserves that have been laid aside are missing altogether. It is very difficult to get an overview of them, and the question is, Would it not be reasonable for the government to provide a summary of the provision of reserves as it puts out a budget bill like this? [[The president calls.]] I think it would be best if she didn't bring up an extra bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u154	A respectable president. When the decision is made to report the budgetary distribution from reserves. That I have the best knowledge it's never happened the same day before the distribution. The General may conclude that this is not compatible with the conditions for use of reserves. We've never been asked that way. There's another adjustment proposal I was trying to find a magazine to quote it directly, but there's been some sort of money being transferred from the court to a reserve of the seminary in the budget, which I find incredibly strange instead of knowing the rest of the year for what to use the reserve. In that case, financial resources are more likely to be used in the reserve rather than directly to the work that is likely to be used in rather than to any other purpose.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u155	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For a fine talk and for his review of a lawsuit that he knows well guess, criticism, deep, and aggressive depression, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's request. I'm thinking about these matters. Since 2015, we have a law on public financial matters, and it has been interesting to observe the discussion on the budget bill today. There, there people have debated their views and have not fully agreed on the emphasis. It has been established whether these new laws are going around by having too high a ratio, by another tens of billions, or even by two dozen, in the budgets, by anything that should be in the budget, that would really be, not an unforeseen point of human interest, but things that should be organized within the budget of the year. I would like to ask the senator why public funds are out of control. Is this really an acceptable course, or do we need to make a special effort? Are we strong in habits? Is it the bond of spirit, or is this a conscious way to approach money that could not be accessed from a government fund in other ways at this point?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u156	A respectable president. One of the questions I asked a representative of the Ministry was just why various sources were sought in the budget bill were not supplied with the reserve. The answer was that they wanted to leave it up to Generalis to give the money. They lost the responsibility of making a decision as to whether or not she was in charge of a reserve. That is exactly where we come to the laws on public financial matters. State and government must abide by law. If they are to propose a financial proposal to the Council, they need to be reasoned exactly as the Minister of Justice on National Rights was to be reasoned. The argument did not hold, and it was very serious. In these cases, it may not be quite the same responsibility, but it is still required. In fact, it is Generals to stand up to what should be done with these proposals that financial rights that do not meet public financial laws based on lack of support there, as indicated by State Accounting, are hardly the conditions given. Although we certainly have the right way to go, the law still holds true, and we should make the requirements, including those, not to break them, especially to begin by making them much less worth.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u157	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear for an excellent answer, he's over there on a home field. Hv. A senator says: "It's the old-fashioned law of trust, it's just the old financial law. Humans have not changed to a degree. I'll ask them why. A senator: Do you have to make a special effort to take this ship and turn around? What must we do to improve this process? Does he see any obstacles other than mental obstacles? Is there any technical obstacles that make it difficult to carry out the legal laws on public finances since 2015?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u158	A respectable president. That's a very good question. An example of this problem was the case when the Federal Reexamination Commission, along with the representatives of the Ministry, stated that Government Revision had provided some suggestions for the Ministry to reform the budget to help the General and to make this more understandable for the General Assembly. My first question, then, Why weren't we asked? A public review offered a better explanation for the council without the council telling whether this was a better explanation for it. What do we know if this will help us to do something proposed by the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures? It will likely help the Constitution to better evaluate the production of budgets or budgets than we do at the council, and on a financial committee, you may want something else altogether. Who knows? It may be a lack of the very idea that the council is asked for an opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u159	Mr. President. I have to admit that I was among those who were so optimistic in the discussion about the new laws on government finance to believe that money money would be no longer a part of the story, that, as mentioned in the discussion, we put aside the budget of 1% of the budget in a special reserve and up to 2% in the individual categories of reserves. In simple terms, up to 3% of the government funds are put aside in reserves in the budget each fall. The government has been taking pride in the fact that the budget is now less large than it has averaged since 2009. We received an excellent statement from the Ministry of finance, a very graphic and beautiful one, and it was presented to a financial committee. It is true that there have been an average of 1.6% of the total budget in the budget since 2009. In fact, when we faced the greatest economic problem in 2009,2013, it was generally not easy to keep the financial expenses within the financial budget. Most of the years were between pair and had no specific abnormalities. In effect, it was, " It was a government discipline. ' Yet, there were no reserves to distribute in those years. One year is different, 2011, with a marked variation but most of the year 2009-2013 is within the limit. Then the Independence Party resumed the Ministry, and 2014 increased considerably, and 2015, 2016, and 2017 was generally 3%. It is fair to say, because I myself sat in the government for a while in 2017, that it was just when the Independence Party was restored to the Ministry during the year that the budgetary bill appeared in 2017, and much of it was surprising. I thought it was quite handsome, and I was making a little bit of money. Because the contribution of the state funds was good, it would be a reason to spit in the other and these deposit teams and the bill served as a sign, although it was certainly an variation, such as in social security, on the basis of a new law, where expenses proved to be greater than previously planned. But that's where the abnormality grew quite significantly. Then we get to work fully under official financial laws with reserves and their use. That's why I wonder when we have a budget bill that has about 1% deviation: Is it not right to add the reserves when we assess the extent of the abnormality of the time before the government financial law went into effect? Then we've reached the old so-called Independence Party number, about 4%. It is the financial discipline of the Independence Party in action, about 4% deviations in the expenses of the state's budget from what was planned. You can see that when the only way the government at that time was to pick up additional funds for the General Assembly for financial aid if they were headed for a forward drive anywhere, they could not compare the average variation of a period when there were no reserves. It is correctly, as indicated in the financial review, an average of 1.6% between 2009 and today. To compare it with a period when the government law took value where the reserves are available, up to 3% of the government budgets, I find that there is no inexpensive Trix and there is no evidence of special discipline in the implementation of budgets. Much more than that is true just talking about it the way it is, that's about 4% variation compared to what we previously knew at the total budget when we take the budget of the budget plus the reserves the government has. It seems to be something, so in this inadequacy the government simply considers the reserves to be money. They are not really meant to run for a run if something really surprises them, but to make more preparations to go through the budget year. And then there's traditional funds, and unfortunately, there's too much in these budgets that just reminds us of old times. I miss discipline more than I can tell. There is something else in terms of budgets and, in fact, the ratings of state funds this year as a whole. It is 43 billion swings in the survival of a government fund from what was set up when budgets were approved for a year's payoff. That's a fact. This government was warned from the very beginning when her first financial policy found that the basis for the course, look to the next five years, were all too optimistic, the budgets were all too swollen, on the basis of the revenue proposed by the government. There would be no chance for them to go on, that would never have happened before, and that would not be about to happen for the first time. It is worth considering that we sat on a budget board and listened to a number of parties, financial advisers, who have legal obligations in these areas, business agencies, industry organizations, and who had a number of analyses in the same direction, these would be too optimistic, and it would be irresponsible to adopt these spending plans on the basis of the economy that the government was working on. It's not nuclear science, it's not something totally unexpected. Certainly, we rarely see where the plague comes from. I'm not gonna stand here and pretend I saw the fall of WOW. Likely, most did not, even though many people had no doubt been concerned about the company's position. It became clear in 2018 that the Society had a particular problem. However, we have seen over the years and decades that when the scale in the economy is similar and that it was now in 2017 and 2018, when the situation of the craze has become like that in 2017, 2018, we get hit. Then our export branches have simply become completely incompatible. Even if we can't always say where it comes from, it's just that, if we look at this chart 30 years back in time, it's always come. And unexpected and unpredictable, he came, too, now as he had been before. In fact, we are still in the position of extreme success, and we hear exactly how the export branches moan under that position. I agree with what came even. ... ina matterwhat. paritaprevir Ágúst Álafs, Ólafur of Ágústsson today: I believe that the economic reserve for 2020 is rather optimistic, not so much so yet, and there is much to fear in the survival of a state fund at 2020. However, the government chose the way of breaking that warning and then begins to reevaluate its financial policies in our case, in effect, to take it up to 2019 to save the year's survival. It is because, as the financial Council had repeatedly warned, the economic goals were used as a roof. This was immediately guaranteed in the budget that expenses were taken into full order so that no more than economic goals would be expected to be left over. Just before 2019 C.E., with all the repeated warnings that had been heard for two years to count, there would have been good reason to leave a little more to cope with unexpected shocks. I'm going to assert it here, in view of the warnings we had repeatedly heard, that there was no surprise that unemployment would increase this year. It was fully expected, completely in line with repeated warnings from the analyst and experts about the economic oversightedness of the government. When one of the baseline laws on public finance is careful, it is reasonable to expect that when a responsible government in the state of the economy is seen as a number of warning lights flashed over the past year when we were in the budget, it would be wise to leave a table for a living, at least for some deviation, not to resort to what we actually did, in both cases, to revise financial policies at the middle of the year, and to resort to considerable additional financial resources. I don't get tired of bringing up the material for the National Church, but in view of the fact that this is the last time, I just hope we'll draw a lesson from the comments of the Government Accounting that this is just not how we can do it. These were totally foreordained expenses. This commitment, including the commitment, had actually been accepted by the government. by providing financial contributions year after year of additional sources for the National Church. It would have been perfectly normal to put into the budget of 2019 some additional contribution to face the uncertainty of the final implementation of the treaty with the National Church, and it would not have resulted in any weakening of the State's legal standing against the Church. It would have simply been possible to call on the trial party an additional charge to face uncertainty because it was yet to be brought to an end. That's what I hope we will do in such matters on the way, indeed. The same could have been done, and it would have been wise to do in terms of the cost of unemployment insurance, in view of the uncertainty of the economy, to make additional contributions there. Of course, the government's problem was that everything that the government's financial policy, in view of the optimistic economic leaders, had been removed. Hence, there was no room for caution or responsibility in making the budget. The lesson that we need to learn from this is that government financial laws do not provide the desired results if the anomaly, 3◯4% of the budget, continues in a similar beat when we take into account the rifts of budgets and of the reserves that are found in budgets each year. That's what we're supposed to have. It must have been behind the rearview mirror and was building the law that we had a 1.6% deviation. We made 3% of our budget to face such uncertainty, but we're not passing the test. It is my greatest disappointment with the implementation of government law that it seems to be a standard rather than an exception that we take up every winter bill for a budget. That's too bad. It is obvious, then, that the law is not fully carrying out the purpose laid up. It remains uncertain, and in spite of the fact that the downturn in history was just a little soft, they still don't see the end of it. The late bank assumes that the bottom will be reached at least within the next year. We receive daily reports of business problems and frequent resignations, and unemployment is still on its way. It is quite ready that next year's recovery will be quite heavy. I wondered, especially with the funding we're discussing here, that the government revised its financial policy in May by this year and gave itself an uncertainty gap in a total of 0.8% of national production and today is about Six percent of the new stuff with the budget bill. The deportation of rural society is still vague yet, but it should also take place within this 0.8% of uncertainty gaps and the simple fact that the income of state funds is still going down. For the whole year, we do not have a complete tea show. We have seen that as the year has passed, the income has continued to pay, and the dive is becoming more sharp according to what has been introduced to the latter part of it. I wondered, " Will it be so that we break the goal of living that was revised in May? ' There'd be a story to the next town. I fear that this might be the case, for despite repeated inquiry, the Ministry of finance did not seem to have made the slightest effort to figure out the situation of the local community this year and how they will be included in financial policy set in May. I also find this to be reprehensible and irresponsible. It must be at least general courtesy, since the government has now been criticized by the rural communities for lack of consultation with financial policy markets. In fact, the government has taken up the task of establishing the objectives of rural society without discussing the prospects for survival. Sadly, though, this year's economic downturn can be expected to affect the survival of rural society, and in recent years they have been driven with an average tilt. Sadly, there is no reason to believe that he will be much like this year or more than he has been. In recent years it has been about 0.3% of land production. Sadly, we still have much to learn. I think there's a considerable amount of vice that's being subsidized by some part of the general reserve. I only agree with the criticism that comes from a State Review in terms of this arrangement. This is no role model. Of course, the government is just to make arrangements for its reserves, including the general reserve, and then come if necessary and necessary to the council, calling for additional financial resources, if such a request truly fulfills the law on public finances. Like what? paritaprevir Hence, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's book was a fine one in his speech, not at all to distribute in all the taxpayers here. I also wondered, given the fact that we have a general reserve of 1% of budgets, why are we talking about funding in budgets that count 8 million, 18.7 million, and some small numbers in the context of budgets that have no business in budgets? I'm afraid we need at the General Assembly to discuss that such financial provisions in financial aid indicate that there is nothing left of the general reserve or of the reserves within the lawsuits, all of them empty. Of course, it must always be the basic requirement for the government that they empty out the resources they have, including them. In reserves, before consulting the council for additional documents. These joints seem to me to have some sign of it. I'm not going to extend my case much any further, but there's no way to say one thing about this, which is the situation at Land Hospital and the fact that this year's efforts are going to be considerably greater than the additional funds being proposed. I fear that the land hospital's problems are not being handled well enough. In order to be consistent with myself, I especially fear that it is not being handled well enough by the Land Hospital, this is not just a matter of providing extra funds for him. This is followed by a second talk, but of course I also fear the fact that the lights are off the hole in the newly built Land Hospital, and according to the building committee's information, there will be no budget for the next five, six months. [[The president calls.]] I wondered: Is it an assignment to go into trouble under the government? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u160	A respectable president. Of course, the topic of the Land Hospital is very serious in terms of both the budget and the budget bill, for we were told relatively late that there would be a total of 3.5 billion dollars at one time. the next year's initiative in the budget. But not only is there 1.5 billion in subsurgents this year that we were given nothing to know of until the budget bill was released. There are 5 billion in these states that are supposed to make up for the late construction period and that should not be delayed. The only thing they tell me is that, while you're not doing anything, you could do something and finish it sooner and you'll enjoy it much sooner. There was one thing. A senator mentioned my interest, and it was about the church meeting; in the context of assuming the legal rights of this matter to the church meeting, whether it was new or not, there would be no need to use all the financial resources that were planned for it, of course, to try to do something more practical. Then I thought of a specific partnership with Iceland's e-mail; this is a service of the National Church for which we could not develop in order to have a particular public service agreement comparable to the post - mail service. What else do we have in public service? It fell out of me right now, but there's something else. Yes, we now have a third energy package, and it also has an services for the distribution of electricity. I'm asking if it would be an excellent model for this service after all.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u161	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Yes, it is a pleasant illustration in many ways. Of course, it would have been no problem to expect a certain level of uncertainty in the budget to avoid having to take this team over and over in the budgets. That, of course, is what a New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures says, and we must listen to a Government Accounting. Most companies listen to their accountant when they make a note of the bill, and so must the State. I think this is an interesting idea. To me, it would be a far more honest approach to continue this endless drama that we are paying for lands that no one remembers or can no longer know what the cost is, or what the places on a head chair or payment are, that we simply make clear - there is a lot to be learned about. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] But what is wrong with a service contract with the National Church? I don't see anything wrong with that. There is widespread support for her role. We have government rights, it's kind of the National Church. She has a responsibility, and the State has committed itself to strengthen her to care for that responsibility. But what's wrong with it? It's in accordance with the laws on public finances and the 40th paragraph. of the agreements that the state makes, to work in harmony with it, to make contracts for five years, and to include some definition of the service rendered? It can be difficult to put some of it into practice. How do we put salvation into such things and other things? However, the State has faced a number of complex work assignments for the implementation of contracts. I see no fundamental difference between the fact that we define the rights and responsibilities of the National Church in dealing with the state in an effort to distinguish the difference, and to pay it simply in accordance with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u162	A respectable president. First with regard to this public service: How much is the church's legal obligation? I have no idea, no idea at all. If we had some sort of public service frame around it, we would at least have a definite analysis of it. That might help us to understand what the law would need to do to make that service more practical, who knows. This leads me to the general range of government service contracts. In my time on a financial committee, government service agreements have never been reviewed, and they have considered whether they will be paying the legal requirements for public finances, why the sum is one way or another, what they'll give us, and what they'll do. This may be of interest in the context of these agreements to set up a follow-up on the implementation of budgets.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u163	Mr. President. Thank you. This interesting question was made by a senator. I said, as in my speech on this matter yesterday, that I thought that the church meeting, if it were done today, would not be able to pass the laws on public finances. I think it's a sin that the revised authority of the contracts that led to last autumn has not been used to just accept that agreement. There's not something the Church needs to be afraid of, it's simply to say, "Hey, can we put a point here?" If people feel that they have no place in the world because of our funerals, let us just deal with that subject but discuss how the church's ministry should be done so that some supervision is possible, but we do not have undefined commitments on the basis of a 120 - year - old agreement between state and church. Just start a new tour that would be in harmony with the government laws, but the church ensured the funds it would need to do what we all want it to do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u164	A respectable president. It's not really possible when it happens. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson has come up here and spoken as if everything here is going to hell and this place is hardly living but to come up for a while. If it is so unlikely that someone is watching and listening, which I think is quite unlikely at this time, I think it is a reason to think of why. A senator that it's just about a month since the Moody's assessment company raised the state's credit score by one level - from A3 to A2 - because values were very stable. Moody's set two main reasons for the rise, on the other hand, a substantial and sustained debt reduction of state funds and good status compared to other countries with the same credit ratings and an increase in economic resistance that increases the ability of the economy to suffer from tragedy. The ever - present prospects reflect the expectations of continuing to be based on the results that have been achieved. In the announcement, the assessment firm points out that by permission of the president, the state's debt has greatly decreased since 2011 and that the financial breakdown of the largest public population that the company considers. Improving the terms of government funds, including through the introduction of the law on public finances, helps to maintain this success. The benefits of the privatization of an enterprise on public property could further strengthen the government's economic account, according to the Moodys' estimates.How much more so? I think we're gonna do what we're gonna do. A senator can agree deeply on that point. A respectable president. Hv. A senator repeatedly complains that national interest is too optimistic. It is now simply so that we are under the laws on public financial matters committed to following the national ideals. Of course, there are conflicting views and wishes to predict something different. In fact, I think it is very important that we follow the laws on public finances and follow the forecasts that lie ahead and wonder if they will. A senator is actually suggesting that we predict economic growth or that we follow some other predictor than what comes from the one we have assigned. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u165	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A wonderful answer from Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir. For the first time I didn't say it was all cold coal or not living here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u166	You sounded a little like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u167	It's a really good place to live here, and I'm feeling all right here, and I just said that this downtrodden, which so many people warned, in historical context, was just extremely soft, no argument here on the road or unnecessary pessimism. What I was simply pointing out, and the warning of a number of diagnostics, was excessive optimism, unrealisticity. It is all right to look to the future with a bright but realistic view. In other words, we have always been through considerable fluctuations, and of course we should assume that these swings will continue and that they will be served at a table when it comes to them. As early as two years ago, we were repeatedly warned that due days were coming, and we needed to be cautious and the state was too optimistic. Parts in the smaller part have different views about this. Reverence has felt that the expansion was far too high on the basis of the proposed economy. But when we are referred to as law against applying the economic standards of the Habitat, it's just wrong. It's up to us to look at an analyst and the economic forecasts made, and we can look to one or more people. First, look at how they compare. However, when a number of other people, across the Habitat, warn too much optimism, there may be reason to be cautious, careful, as the law on public finances says, and to have just a normal table to meet the times if the result is possibly inferior to what is expected. In fact, it does seem so pleasant that the Habitat always predicts 2.7% of interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u168	A respectable president. I think that it is very good for us to bear in mind our record of success and the extraordinary success of this community has achieved since collapse and how successful we have been in disciplined economic management. Here, growth in historical terms has never been as low as it is today. Since 2013 the level of money has increased 26.6% and this is where taxes continue to decline. Hv. A senator feels that the increase in expenses has been too great. In fact, I have to admit that now we are here, and I think we're approaching some kind of record value in a discussion on the budget. At the same time, our citizens live in areas where power and power lines have been cut apart, and our infrastructure is clearly very lacking in many parts of the country, so I might now be more interested in it and worry about discussing it here when it comes to financing whether we just need to take some action over the events that took place in the last two days.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u169	Mr. President. That's a good point by the wind. A member of the council that this destructive storm, resulting in so much damage to the electrical distribution system, which is seen to be a concern. This may not be the problem, for today we have a system designed to control the investment in the system, but we just don't agree on what to do. It would be a fine start if politics came together to discuss how we are going to strengthen the foundation that has been spoken for years and decades that we need to take on a real boost. Where are we going to put those lines? In what ways will we resolve matters? Of course, it would be a great joy if this would be a need for reproof and a basis for us to take care of this one and finish it, for it does not need the funds needed to carry out these assignments. It's inside the great system we've got around the distribution of electricity. [[The president calls.]] But there is a need for a decision on how we will do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u170	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn Víglundsson of speech. Of course, I listened breathingly to a talk. A senator, who often gives excellent talks when we discuss economic matters, financial laws, and financial matters, so I listened attentively. But I felt exactly like what I had. paritaprevir The spirit of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, who was in opposition to what he had to say. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Víglundsson, I was sick of chapters as if it were all in the middle of nowhere. But I have developed tolerance for this discussion, for we are discussing a relatively specific subject that is a financial aid. There we are, to be maintained, about 1.6% of total cost abnormalities. If we take out the irregular team, and now we're primarily talking about the basic abnormalities that are typical of financial matters, unemployment insurance, and so forth, it is 0.5% of total budgets. It hasn't been less for years, so we'll just bury the discussion again. Hv. paritaprevir Bryndís the Haraldsdóttir autobiographical evaluation of Moody's because we're discussing the economy and the routine in it, and it's definitely about the budget, and we're going to follow the Habitat's economic forecasts, which are the basis for a financial bill. And to add this, AGS says that this is the exact economic response and for the first time for years we hear that the government's playing a game on the money issues. We must look at the positive picture as we discuss the entire economic situation. Still, I wanted to come up here and bring us into the bill we discuss and the context of the parts. We're gonna go for a second. A senator, however, agrees on one thing, that is a positive message from Iceland's Secret Bank. It all looks like we're getting a smooth landing, blessed landing, but it'll reach the middle of the next year, and I'm assuming that maybe it'll be with the more complicated we've dealt with, me and the other. A senator on a budget board, putting together a national financial programme. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u171	Mr. President. Thank you. In response, a senator can comfort him, as it were. Haraldsdóttir No, I'm not afraid it's all fucking up here, not at all. It is a beautiful, good proverb in a English language that says: "Unless he is a resident, there is no one. [[Up front.]] Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur Is Ísleifsson must speak louder if he is to interrupt and correct.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u172	Unless he knows how to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u173	Yeah, at least I know how to do it here. It is the very essence of the matter, for it is common sense to look at the situation realistically. As was repeatedly warned of so many sources, too optimistic was set out. It doesn't mean a conclusion, it doesn't mean some deep crisis or a crisis in the economy, and it seems like we're getting quite comfortable in this down cycle. The fact in historical context is that one of the subversives is quite soft, and another is somewhat sharper. Sadly, this is the fluctuating nature of the Icelandic economy, which is swinging more than most others. I can take a long discussion about it, maybe we can do it later tonight. This is precisely the way it is wise to be realistic when it comes to the budget. Because we're talking here, including ... againstwhat. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir before, the necessary investments, and that's exactly right. In answer to this, a senator says that the budget is now working with the economy, that it is already increasing the national spending in other places, that I would personally have considered it much better to be in the form of large - scale investments, not just a large increase in the amount of cohesion. There's still a great lack of money, such as. There are reports of the electrical power system, and there is also an enormous shortage of infrastructure in public transportation, airports, and road system. [[The president calls.]] Surely, there would have been a lot more to spit on than is being done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u174	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for the answer. I thought I was assured that not everything, as I said it, was in opposition, on hell's side, but on the other hand. A senator here has a common sense of reason and a realistic view of the situation. Of course, we agree on this, and there are some interesting aspects of this swing. Hv. A senator entered the real world in his talk, and we may have taken a much stronger adjustment through the crown, but I can't go out in that song in a minute. I just wanted to say the word. A senator and I know that it is our assessment on the budget board that it is desirable for a bill to be provided with a summary of the provision of reserves. Senator on Government Accounting. But then I'm going to leave what the Government Accounting says, in its review, that the existing bill is basically in accordance with the laws on public finances. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u175	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator and the chairman of the Board of Sheeps the Anti-Answer. I agree with him that, of course, we need to look to the tips we receive and learn how we can do better and develop this instrument that is meant to be for us by government laws. Although it is quite right. A senator points out that this account is not signed in advance by a decision to sign it; it is fundamentally in accordance with official financial law; it is a number of indications of what might be done. There must be a financial committee to consider, and, shall we say, intertwin the indications to the Ministry of finance that we listen to the President's Reexamination tips and that we are not dealing with the same committees year after year and we are developing the work on official financial laws in the right direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u176	Mr. President. I want here for 2nd. the amount of funds originally goes a little further into what I also mentioned in answer to the question. Chairman of the budget board, definitions. Public financial laws and what they cannot do are always being handled. I believe, Madam President, that it has really become urgent that men define what is temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable. It takes clean lines so we don't wear the hairs back and forth that it doesn't fall under the law, the other one falls under the law, and so on. Sadly, there is no judges in this, so to speak. In other words, the definition of public finances is a basis for financial funding, and it is clearly well. But the will of the government, the government, is for a hairpiece, so to speak, what does not belong and what is not. However, according to a general language, there is little doubt as to what is meant, but when these words come into the hands of the European Commission, they gain a new meaning, in effect, which is not found in a culture fund, nor in the mental world of the governments; but as everyone knows, it is impossible to know where it is going to take place, if anything. This aspect of work must be clear. Politicalism is not to be taken over law lyrics that explain laws rather than political ideals. It was also intended that the reserve of litigators would largely replace the budget as well as the general reserve, according to its rules. That's what we know. This has been discussed back and forth, but unfortunately, funds are still being submitted. It has been found that not all the lawsuits are ever made for a reserve, so nothing is really there to attend. Such prudence, as it were, is used to fit into the budget. By this method, ministers have actually been able to expand their framework, assign more funding to their classes, instead of having the natural resources of reserves to meet unexpected expenses and expenditures. Consider one example. There were not even 8 million at the Ministry of Justice to cover the legal expenses for reporting to the European Court of Human Rights on a court case for ordering four judges at the National Court. So there were budgets and discussions here at the General Assembly about 8 million. K. The budget, however, contains hundreds of billions of expenses. This is to my judgment something that surely has to be corrected. And it is a little strange about this special budget for the Ministry of Justice in financial aid that the government is actually surprised that four well - chosen lawyers are interested in seeking their rights. In fact, it is not unexpected and completely natural for humans to seek justice in these matters. But in my opinion, it's unnatural that things have to go through budgets and discuss specifically at the council. I believe this request, so that I speak specifically of her, has no business in the sum of funds. Then we wonder: " What are the explanations for the extent of the funds still being spent? The government has boasted that its magnitude is considerably less than ever. It's just not enough. There were special laws on public financial matters with the reserves of litigators and the general reserve. The purpose was this, and it's that there doesn't have to be a budget here. But it seems, Madam President, that the Ministry either doesn't understand or does not want to obey these new rules that apply to money, while stressing that it is the General Assembly who approves of money and accepts it, although it actually doesn't pass the law on public finance. Unfortunately, I think this will continue until both parties, as it were, actually abandon their habits to misuse the budget. In many cases, there is nothing other than abuse of these laws. There are reserves and they're being overlooked, and funds are being increased through financial aid. It has also been shown that there are no new transfers within the classes, and neither in the bill nor in the presentation of the components of the transfers, rather than asking for extra funds, are not considered. There is also the fact that on public finance laws, spending may be expected to be more than planned to transfer the hook to the next year, reducing the budget of the year. The law allows the minister to handle the problem with the instruments given to him in the law and ensures that the plans for that year will be within the warrants. Even if this method is used, it is all too common for a minister to be relieved of his responsibilities by giving him additional funds. Ideas about the wealth gains of the General Assembly are taught by the use of the professional techniques that the law understands - and right to emphasize, which the law sets apart - and based on the ability to see and govern ministers rather than on bringing him ransom money, as it were, to avoid him from making the difficult decisions he is assigned to make under the laws of public finances. Interestingly, there are only suggestions for additional sources of money in individual language areas and litigators, but the overall assessment of the year's recovery is not reflected in the bill. That's the way it is, for example. neither can there be any suggestions on making a change in income, nor will there be changes in expenses to reduce, even if there are some cases of expenses that will be well planned within the box. Then we always come to the discussion about the economy, normal planning within the council, and I'm going to point out that the Central Party brought a change in budgets to 1.1 billion per Ministry. It is only a matter of fact that the state body has been blown out in the history of this government, and there is a need to cut it down, and really the right time now, when the income of the state's budget has been brought together and is going to continue to contract. Mr. President. It seems to me that the Ministry of finance interprets Section 26. a law on government finance, which deals with bill for funding, is too narrow by presenting only a reassessment of emissions of 2019 instead of making an overall assessment of the year's survival. I don't think it was the lawyer's intention. Whether the Law text is too literal is interpreted by the Ministry of finance. In this regard it should be remembered that readers will always read a cup of funds carefully, since this is in the opinion of professionals regarding an accounting of one of the most important statements and providing one of the best information. In addition, the Ministry should publish an overview of the budget, as normal as it is required, after all the work assigned to transfer all the funds of the state before it was legalized. It cannot be concluded that it is in accordance with the Lawgiver's aim to provide the most detailed information on the budget to release this vital information from bill to budget. On the contrary, it should be the goal of future funding to publish estimated financial bills and funds, and it becomes necessary to provide such laws. The spirit of this new law on public financial matters is to provide readers with the financial resources that supply information at any given time. In particular, in the members of the majority of the section's committees, there is a comment on contribution to health insurance. Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: Then a proposal is made for nearly 1.5 billion dollars. increase due to a loss of health insurance providers who have not been treated with appropriate measures. Thus, the majority confirm that a minister was obliged to handle these matters but also decide to cut him out of the snare, as it were. I must say, Mr President, that it is hardly now in accordance with the Senate's supervision and discipline in these matters, and you ask yourself, " Didn't the council make a decision against the Minister that he would have taken steps to solve these matters successfully and professionally without any further attendance of the council? In this case, it is in particular an extra charge for physical therapy, of which about 660 million are required. K. or 13% over the budget. During the past five years, the cost of physical therapy has increased by 177% or by 3.5 billion. It is estimated that several other measures of health insurance will exceed the terms of budgetary measures, e.g. Foreign Hospital Service, 410 million. K., and aid tools 270 million. In my opinion, the reasons for these abnormalities have not been defined, so it must be assumed that there is a plan to be taken as the chief ruler of these cases, not by the General. The role of the Generalis is to provide him with the necessary tools, not with financial contributions, since the budget had been established for the seminary and its scope. I'd also like to step aside from the birth lagoon. Now I believe that the quality of budgets has not been provided enough to be evaluated. The increased number of those taking birthworm has been observed to exceed the value of budgetary laws but has not been considered in the quality of the forewords based on financial laws. It is difficult for members of a budget board to determine whether or not maternity funds were deliberately planned too low and ministers could provide funds for other projects, confident that the budget would be handled on budgets. In my opinion, the external cost of the failure to move to the next year and to reduce this year's financial resources would have been expected to be practical. There, a minister would have handled his leaning in a professional way, but he would not have been released by the Generals. Some 790 million suggestions are made. K. a donation to transport, so I'll only take care of them, that is said to be due to unforeseen additional costs for the newuthorities and payments of a foreign shipping base for the final payment of the ship, and on the other hand, because of a delay in the delivery of the ship to the Western Islands. I'd like to state that it's not so long since I took my first trip with a new Navy to the island and I have to say that the ship is very beautiful and serves its place well. Since passengers are comfortable, it was a very pleasant trip, so it was a very timely and vital investment in transportation to the Western Islands, which I support with my whole mind. However, I am here to discuss the unforeseen aspects of these matters and whether these funds belong to this team or not. It has not been provided with information on how much of this cost is due to the decision taken during the ship's construction period and should therefore not be paid for financial support. The decisions made due to changes should not be unexpected or unpredictable. It should have been understood why this is not paid for. Then, the smaller sub- and memory item is a joint in a committee study that has been submitted - with a greater proportion of coverage on the budget and on the annual budget of state funds within the year - the committee still has the challenge of not having a clear overview of the financial resources of individual lawsuits and the use of reserves. That's what we talked about earlier today. The use of reserves and even individual museums in which they are still on the people is not yet specific. Therefore, it is not completely clear whether the laws on public finances have been fully used. This is something that really matters, and you wonder about it, as if I only came in and answered the question. Chairman of the budget board, what? paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, that there is a need to learn more about the problems involved in government funds and the use of reserves. I think it's just a need-to-know thing. Although I really agree with this, I disagree with the greater belief that budgets are provided by a financial committee before any information has been obtained that is enough to shed light on and explain how things are really being handled. During the time of the rest of the budget completion, the Commission will be able to avoid holding up budgets. It is not the legal committee or the Generals' job of accepting an incomplete bill in this regard in my opinion, and hopefully this will be the last time the Council has to suffer it. But, of course, I and the memory part, I think I can claim, give more of our share to help fix this, i.e. it's more of a part that's interested in it. Mr. President. I've traced the biggest thing I've ever wanted to add to this committee opinion that the lesser part is involved. The manager of my part was a bit rough. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson There are other things I would have liked to come in on, such a unique thing. There's a motion here on making a special budget for law enforcement, i.e. Research into organized crime. This is an interesting suggestion, and I remind you that the Central Party has offered the same suggestion as it was suggested. [[The president calls.]] But we in the Central Party will support this transition. Otherwise, I will come into it only later in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u177	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. When we agreed on public financial laws, we discussed a much improved plan, and we looked back on the story where the funds were very loud and even 5% - and generally 5% - of expenses went through the budget. The idea of the reserves was to plan for something unexpected, and the story showed us that we would come up frequently so that we had planned everything together and that it would be unnecessary. The big reserve - that is natural strict rules about him - is a reserve for individual lawsuits and is thought to enhance flexibility. As an example, I mention a reserve for the seminary high school. If students are unexpected, they can be taken to the fund, and there is no need for a financial proposal. But in a suggestion of the bill we are discussing, there are 40 million. K. a contribution to the health care of the Southnes. It is said to be because the population has increased, with people of foreign background in high proportion, and many are out of work. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he really believes that this is something that was unpredictable, whether it wasn't all clear, that it would need at least Forty million. K. and, of course, more if there is. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u178	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists and a brief review of the reserves and the importance of the laws on public finances and their main objective. Hv. A senator did this well in a short period of time and made good use of the fact that more members of the council knew the process and how these laws should work. Hv. A senator specifically asks about the budget that is found in the Southnes Institute for Health, which I, of course, welcome and whether it was unpredictable. I think it's pretty clear that Southnes'problems are far from unexpected. This has been known to at least In a few miseries, there has been unprecedented population growth and pressure on legal institutions in the Southnes, such as the South American Institute of Health, so that there is nothing unseen and the government should have faced the problem much earlier. What may not be seen in part is the failure of the WOW airline. It has also produced some local problems, unemployment, and help that need to be provided in the material, and it is partly related to the health agency. I think it's perfectly clear that this particular budget should have been long gone through the budget. It's simple. The problem has been in place and is known, and we've discussed it here and there. A senator called attention to him in a talk chair and to the need to deal with him. We're very happy about this, but I think personally that this case should have been handled a long time ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u179	Mr. President. The population population in Southernnes over the last five years is 30%. There has been an increase in the number of well - off towns, just the increase, but there have been no increase in government funds. We discussed this when the budget for 2020 was approved. I want to ask you why. A senator would agree with me that when we discuss the budget in 2020, Southnes will come up with and particularly from the National Institute of Health because they really have to take action, since there is, of course, a lot of population growth that needs to be dealt with and that is also the population composition that is more specific and more financial. I want to pray. A senator to review it in a short time whatever he would like to see coming out of the current committee; she has, of course, held just one meeting but would have submitted a report of the exact service of the State to the inhabitants of Southnesia. As to the suggestion, we were standing, which was the one here with the bang. A senator and all of the council members of the Southern District were hoping that the decision would come on December 1 so that we could handle the case on the budget by 2020, but we could not. The first meeting was held during the days. [[The president calls.]] I want to ask you why. A senator is hoping to see his work come out of him.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u180	Mr. President. Thank you. This fine reflection and an answer for Southnes and their status when it comes to public service. We know her. Hv. A senator has also transferred a reimbursement of extra expenses, e.g. to the Southnesia Medical Institute. The person standing here brought a change in these budgets. The proposals have all been made by government categories, Independence Party, Left Green, and Anarchy. Of course, I hope that when the above - mentioned committee arrives, people will finally come to their senses - and thank you. A senator for her initiative in that regard, a very important matter. But you ask yourself: " Does anyone always need to set up some committees to finally accept government? Like what? It's just the way a senator mentioned it, and everyone knows that the population in Southnes is unprecedented and should be enough to take over to the government. I personally believe that this particular budget now coming through the budget is primarily due to the failure of a South American airline. I'm not sure they'd taken over differently. The government had to act in some way. It was a big and huge failure, about 1,000 people lost their jobs, and the government had to take some initiative, and then there's a promise to respond, and it's linked to this population growth. As I say, we rejoice in this proposal, and we will support her in the budget. But I believe that the government has been very late for this unprecedented increase in Southnes and the increased public service that the government must render, legal service, it is proper to bear in mind. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u181	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For the talk, Þórarinsson's son's offer commends him for not entering the tone that many of his associates have spoken before, from a smaller section of the committee's opinion, have struck, not speaking in such a way that everything is on the brink of disaster. He simply gets in touch with the aspects I think, a respectable president, that we should talk about the funds, what's ahead of us and how we manage our finances. That was a fine part of his speech. That's why I also welcome an especially excellent opposite of what. paritaprevir Oddný G. A Harðardóttir daughter earlier, of the prehistory that we built up and thought a reserve in the legal environment we are in. I thought it was interesting in the opposite direction. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter described how we've managed the budget much better with this new legal environment. She said that up to 5% of the variation had been, that expenses had been in the budget. That's why I'd like a year ago to answer the question. paritaprevir Birgir Þórarinsson to ask him, " Isn't this a financial bill just an excellent example of being on our way? There's the slightest variations we've seen in any of the budgets, anyway, so I know them. The major abnormalities are caused by economic breakdown and failure. Birgir Þórarinsson's daughters did not fall into the pit of claiming that he had seen them all going for as many of his associates in the smaller section, which, under his opinion, have been indicating something. I am left with the thought that his excellent speech has helped us with the guidance we have, and I ask him if he cannot agree with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u182	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. The new law we've been learning about, the government law, has certainly been for the benefit. Of course, the ratio that goes through the budget is dropping, so we should celebrate. I hope we made it to the time point not too long that the sum of money would be unnecessary. But what worries me about these things is why. A senator, who seems to be inclined not to break up completely from this old arrangement, is a bit trapped in the fact that you can look for the money and you don't realize that there are reserves that may have to be built better under, I don't know. But anyway, I think I will. Chairman of the budget board, what? paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, has agreed that even more than a few years ago, the importance of looking to the reserve is an unexpected and unpredictable matter. We shouldn't have to scribble about here forever whether this funds belong in there or not. I say personally, as I said in a speech, that I think it's completely unnatural that we're discussing it here that there's only 8 billion. K. Encouraging for this project at the Ministry of Justice. It's supposed to be in a reserve where you can normally look. The conclusion may be: We hope that within a short period of time, we will not reach the point where money will be unnecessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u183	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I just want to go further into his fine talk earlier, what he said about our not having received an overview of any unused financial resources. I'd like to review that now these laws that we are going to be so confident that institutions and government agencies are allowed to move between years of unsatisfactory sources, within certain frameworks and on certain conditions. Therefore, we are not getting involved in any unused form of funds at this time. We have much of the budget, just like what. A senator mentions, be very clear, and is very clear in this committee of ours. We want to go further. We want to be more aggressive in using the controls that the law contains. Therefore, in our majority interest, the Ministry of Economics is now having a special effort to present and use the existing controls. It's just that, as it is, we're moving a year from year to year, our goal is to get into the environment of not needing any extra funds. I think it's a good witness to this budget, and we specifically refer to it in the committee opinion. We also discuss the use of the reserves and spend some powder on it, and I'm pretty sure that it's fair to agree, and I'm in the opinion of a smaller part of the legal committee that they agree with them. I think it's important, that we're still feeling ourselves in this way. But I might be left to ask in return an answer to what. Þórarinsson " Is it any myth to ask if there is any reason to worry about this contribution in the light of what we are feeling and what the results are? I think it's quite a success.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u184	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's response to his thoughts and feelings about us being on the right track. I agree that we're on the right track, but still we're on the right track. Then we'll get to it. A senator rightly mentioned that there will be action, as the majority say in his committee, in sharpening the use of these laws, and that makes my mind clear. I'm glad it's in the opinion of the greater part. This is very wise and timely, and hopefully this effort will succeed. We'll see the change in the next budget better, and hopefully it won't need a budget bill. I agree with that. A senator that the government is on its way, should be, the law says it is. There is no limit to the fact that we are learning the law. Now we should be getting to know these laws quite well, so they're supposed to get on a fixed scale. We're not supposed to have to see any money that doesn't belong at all. Well, we can see that, but they've dropped, and I'll agree with that. It is not up to me to cooperate with the committee to make an effort to make such an effort so that we can see results.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u185	Mr. President. This has been quite informative, and it has been a pleasure to observe this discussion even though I have done so from most of the time from a radio. You hear people who are on the committee talking and who have a comprehensive knowledge of these matters and the laws on which the bill is based. Most people seem to agree that things have improved in recent years, but there are also certain things that obviously do not belong at home. Whether it is based on the Icelandic philosophy, somehow, I don't know. Hv. paritaprevir Birgir's Þórarinsson wondered whether the government doesn't want, does not understand, or cannot, and did not always have to put everything on committees to get money to where they lack it at any given time. I think it's a little bit of a matter of culture or civilization. I think it's also definitely a matter of forethought and vision deficiency. Of course, there is something we need to take quite seriously. Therefore, in connection with this and this matter, I think it is good for someone to discuss only how we are justified and holy to bring upon us unexpected, unexpected, and secondary costs. Here some members of the council have talked about whether we were on the right track. Yes, it may well be that we are on the right track with regard to our work, but we also need to consider whether the funds we put in question are sufficient and not merely to add to some crowns and money, thousands of calls, and even billions of dollars, or to raise money or to take it out of a reserve fund but whether the arrangements we make at other expense. Of course, we all know that there are many examples. I'm not attacking or pointing my spears at the present government when I pondered these things, but that's how it is in general. I think we're just a little healthy, that's all. However, we are also dealing with budgets that are due to be met by unscheduled expenses, and people here normally deal with the times when expenses are not to be expected and when they are not. The removal of the Kingdom was to be 29 billion, but instead, we look at some 15 billion in a corner. Of course, this may have many explanations. Hv. paritaprevir Njáll Friðbertsson has identified a national failure that has occurred in several areas, and it is certainly something that matters, but in other places it is not. It's not right. paritaprevir Haraldur, the son of Benediktsson, said that the funds committees of the smaller section all spoke of their having anticipated this, at least The people I've been listening to all pointed out that alarms in so many parts of society, financial councils, ASI, and so forth. So this may be a mixture of two. I wondered, " When we are in a hurry to contribute funds, where there are various lawsuits, which are actually inferior, and are totally blind to the fact that this will require additional financial and secondary costs from other places, even in individuals. ' We can call this recklessness, blindness, forethought, clumsiness, and reiterate that I'm not talking about the circumstances we are in right now. I'm just talking about this Icelandic culture because in many ways we are part of a country. We have varied and stable jobs, can cope with many challenges, and should be able to look ahead. So that I might take an example of such investment, I can name the Land Hospital, the Medieval Hospital, the Medical Center, the fixation of fiber optics, not to mention the lack of ability to transport safe electricity between parts of the country. We all have a fault. That may be the clearest example at the moment that it is not entirely out of harmony with what the old woman said about this year: It's expensive to save. Of course, the cost arises elsewhere in the community, apart from the fact that it causes other inconveniences and unpleasant things to come over us too. I also believe that less government spending on interest rates did not necessarily have to be anticipated and not of the good. Makings for interest reduces the budget of over 2 billion. I think it shows how the government has undermined this needed housing with people. Remuneration has indeed increased, but the decline has become more complex, resulting in a decrease in growth reforms. The benefits of low - income earners who have little money are gone, people get into problems. The cost falls on the individual and the public and remembers that the homes in the country cannot sit down at the beginning of December making extra money for the past year, and I think we all need to think about it. I can add the medical system, the Land Hospital General is stable. Some may say that money needs to be handled well, and I can say yes. It needs to be examined too. But that cannot be the only explanation. That's why things are too obvious to be paralytic. Negotiation of nursing homes in the country does not necessarily appear as damage to the Albourn Book or to the budgets and payments of a government fund, but the costs only land on institutions that run nursing homes or on individual communities. Is that smart? I don't think so. We are decades behind on an important road. We are defending a slightly lower proportion of GDP than the neighboring countries. Yet, we are in, I think, know and reject inside our numbers, and we will build the roads while our neighbors are primarily concerned with maintaining them and improving their safety. Is it possible that there is some secondary cost? Yes, indeed, indeed, indeed, quite frightening times and seasons because accidents are both expensive and inaccessible in so many sense of that word. We protected the government from this and criticized them when a financial strategy was proposed that the space in the last few years in the goods would not have been new to make money but would have been left behind. We would have had to spend that money at that time to rebuild our health system, rebuild our schools, and attack the infrastructure. When we become so caught up in some sort of downturn, some of which would like to call temporary cooling and others a low depression, we have a small problem. It is not the will to earn money where it can be done, and then we need to step off, and the slightest unexpected events can lead to even worse problems than before. I think the conclusion of my meditation is that we -- I mean us, not you - lack perspective. We don't have a vision for the future. We lack ambition beyond what we have today. I don't know if this is an inability to see the context of cause and effect. But it is quite clear that a country that is in spite of all this powerful and powerful and rich and with a lot of talent can't always live in an empty response and style and buttholes. We need to get in front of the line. We kind of need to start thinking more about this. Here we are talking almost every week about the changes that are about to take place during the fourth industrial revolution, the insane progress of this digital revolution and reformation; machines are not taking over their muscles, as they were 150 years ago, but in some cases help us think and think for us. At that time, we were able to make good use of the changes, the social calot that resulted when people flocked into the cities. We went to school, first high school, then college, then college. People met and produced political movements. Women demanded a vote. What a tremendous social improvement that turned out to be! We are in a small way on a similar milestone today. Then we must not act in such a way that we are just like 100 years ago, that we are content to sail out and catch some fish, and then spend the rest of the day fixing the nets and going back out. We need to think much further ahead. Therefore, we simply have to make a big effort, create a revolution into education, spend a lot more money in research, innovation, do much more creative work than our originals, and for that reason we cannot expect us to be in the place of funding the education system, and at the end of each year, always to add a few hundred thousand calls or millions of us to the fact that schools do not exactly lie down. You see, this has not been the foretold high education rate. The university is in place. High school is inexpensive, and that's what we've experienced many times. But now we are in other times, and now we have to do things differently. I'm pretty afraid that if we keep doing this, we'll live like this from day to day, from year to year, but try not to look at the crazy changes that are going on around us and the world, we'll have to do this shit year after year, deal with whether the money we didn't put on this thing or the other one should go out of reserves, on funds, or should have gone to the budget of the year earlier. And we are faced with an incredible opportunity because what has always set limits on us Iceland is being a very small nation in a vast land. What has set limits on us are few in our hands. However, the new technology, digital technology, gives us much less boundaries in this sense because it does not need machines; there is no need for hands to create a new copy of a tray or a bottle of soda or a carfish package. It takes a lot of intelligence, a broad - minded capital, and a wide - minded person to allow people to try and fail until they succeed in creating animal and valuable goods, and after that it takes nothing more than to press a button on a keyboard, and then it is immediately brought to the world, wherever it is on earth, without sophistication, which will help us better during the discussion we need to have. I'm here first, first and foremost, to encourage us to do our utmost, to set high goals. We can certainly cultivate better cooperation, and for the third time I repeat that this criticism is not necessarily directed to us here or to those in more part but to repeat that we no longer can, compared with putting what is right and hardly right in it. We have to be afraid to invest, think big, and I think we'll be better if we work together in it. We are living in exciting times, and we will see if we can do something good about them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u186	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator that we are on the right way in the country, clearly, like the AGS, the World Bank, Moody's, and the Navy have talked about the nation's financial affairs. I just want to come into something that hasn't been given a chance here at the Hall of Congress to discuss really, but why. A senator came in about the lack of the ability to deliver electricity. I think it's part of the discussion, the transport system of electricity and distribution systems. But I don't think it's the inability of the system or anything else now or the failure of the government to perform the transport system of electricity in the country. There's been a lot of discussion about this for 10, 15, 20 years. What we have seen in this very weather that has been going on for the last two days, and the result is that it is primarily the electrical transport system, the main transport system, which is falling. It's the top pen, the big system. The distribution system has done a great job and that the policy that has been run in Iceland, especially by Richard, is putting strings on the ground. In recent years 65% of that system has been placed on the ground and should be fully completed by 2035. The main transport system and how difficult it has been to get approved through the rural communities, some comments, and all of this: how do you feel? A senator? The amount of money has truly existed, as we can see. There are already portings at Kjarnarline three, there are now being set up 8 billion in that process, from the River Valley Hall, and at 7.5-448 billion will go to Holasands, hopefully starting next year, and then want to go on with a blending line. The amount of money is available. How can you tell? A senator realizes that we can do this now and that we can complete these electronic issues that are of utmost importance to a large part of the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u187	Mr. President. Hv. Friðbertsson My speech may well have been interpreted by elderly Jerrysson, who says that I have claimed to be on the right path. I said things were going the right way, and things were worse. However, I said that we lacked courage and a vision for the future, all of us, not just governments. We don't have the guts to think more and more in the future and to face the changed times. I took the power transport as an example of what can be expensive either to save or to avoid being able to overcome progress. Of course, we have a secondary expense, which is due to these events now but also the inequities in the land's habitats, which are not spoken of today as we know. We need to attack. I know there are other problems besides a lack of funding for this specific project. But we also need to be vast enough, open - minded, reasonable, forgiving, and bold to overcome them, whether they relate to national, organizational, or otherwise. I know it's all agreed. In effect, I'm urging us to place enough money on the things we know we have to do so that they don't raise the expense elsewhere, often with aerosol people who have nothing to do but pay their taxes, come to work, and raise their children.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u188	Mr. President. I just cut it down earlier in my discussion. A senator only introduced the electricity, so I wanted to come up and say that it was not a lack of money there. There's something else that's stopping a quest. On the other hand, I take my whole mind with a bang. Of course, a senator wants us who have a great vision of land transport, electrical transport, telecommunication, and other things to build these vital systems, hospitals, education, so we are in the same place. There are positive things to do in our economic situation. It's, for example. One point I notice in a budget board and have reported in the press since that when representatives of the Hague set up the committee, they pointed out that the cost of operating in Iceland, both in investments and then only in business, is lower in Iceland today than in the rest of the North countries. It's something that hasn't been discussed much but that caught my attention. I remember the figure was that by 80% of Icelandic homes today, less than 10% of provisional tea goes to house business and to run home. We have never known such numbers in Icelandic history. We are seeing amazingly many positive steps. But I came up first to discuss what was going on with these issues these days on a large part of the country, which is the electricity system and what it's done to invest in large areas of the country because of its founding, deliberating, and unabating activities. It has been taken 10, 15, 20 years in large areas of land to restore these objects.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u189	Mr. President. Yes, yes, but people are also charging something with reference to the laws given here. Clearly, then, we should first try to resolve the situation. I agree that there are a lot of positive things about our business and that have been in recent years. Happily, we have much more than a variety of support. We have become more productive, intelligent, innovation, and knowledge than we have and are good. It also comes to a home, although I am sorry to argue that this has been the case with us and the rest of the North countries when it comes to the creation of the construction industry and that I know it quite well. I may think that the biggest reason for this is the poisonous cocktail of high capital costs and small productions because we are using rather old - fashioned construction methods. It is a pleasure, of course, if it is right to have less housing expenses here. But then it can often happen when buildings are speeding up and making them less expensive in a very expensive environment, just as we do with quality. I now noticed in the sheepfold that they refer to the surgeon's mold, I think it was. You can ask yourself when you see such numbers: Is that an unexpected incident, or is it because the state and public do not allow the 2.5% needed every year to maintain buildings in order to be okay? Is it something that just comes out of nowhere 40 years later? I don't think so. I think we need to be more careful with all planning and thinking.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u190	Mr. President. When we discuss a bill for financial support, we do not think that all predictable financial arrangements are to be made and expenses should be dropped during the year, and government funds cannot avoid paying them. However, differences and unexpected incidents are to be reflected in the financial bill and in the budget. In itself, there are some sizes that could be spoken of here that should be unexpected as one that beats you is on page. Fifty on the bill, which says so, by permission of the President: The current budget of the current year's income and charge ratings was estimated to be a negative budget of 8.8 billion dollars by 2020. in 2019 C.E. The results have now been reevaluated, among other things, in view of the global economy and the changes this bill allows for financial resources. The reimbursement of the State Fund is expected to worsen and to result in a negative score of 14.8 billion. which corresponds to 0.5% of VLP. The main ease in exposé today was expected in some cases to be even fewer incomes than it was planned. At least for the past two years, the Central Party has even. The need to promote collections on the laid expenses will be discussed at the council. In response to a question asked by the secretary of finance not long ago, the Ministry of finance and the employees found that there were regularly around the economy 80 billion people who did not return to the state funds. It says that the result is getting worse at the state fund at $14.8 billion. I'd like to point out that if men had followed the proposals of our Middle Class and raised collections and IRSs, especially with larger sources, but only about that would have been reached. Ten percent of what is supposed to be in the economy by the Ministry of Economics itself, is 8 billion dollars. I don't think that, Mr. President, would remember that amount and the budget bill would be as big as it is now if men had taken this advice. I would also like to point to just one point that the person here has spoken for about six years, which is the fact that one of the large channels of tax collections in Iceland is a host called the Airbnb. I'd like to apologize to the President for putting up English, but I don't have a better name for this thing. It just so happens. Tourism, innovation, and industrial development minister established a special group of workers last year to try to cover registration of possessions that are rented out to this purpose and have in itself achieved considerable success. Registration of the property rented to this purpose was two years ago and longer perhaps about 5◯7%, i.e. registered property rented to this purpose accounted for about 5 or 7% of the total supply. It seems natural, Mr. President, only there is a significant point in the inability of income that should be made easily. Then the highest. Travel ministers, innovations, and industry have increased this number of workers in the previous year, and they now have about 30% of the available supply. It was suggested that only in that field would there be 51⁄26 billion. This must be good for those who teach themselves to compete and to make personal gains, and for all to have the potential for earning money, they must be competitive at the market, that those who compete for the market, whether it is this market or anyone else, will be able to pay the taxes and the expenses of the business, and will not be putting up with a competitive position in the interests of those who fail to pay taxes and expenses. Mr. President, I'm reminded that we Middle Class have suggested last year that some plans be made. 20 employees for the head of state tax and tax research manager just to correct this. We spoke for deaf ears. We each budget has been presented by the Middle Class with suggestions that have been spent forever and not, as you say, shot into the air but thought about the suggestions and that have been more often than not included in the efforts of improving the income fund. This is not likely to help because the government has already blown up a huge budget and seems to be frequent, and that is evident in this budget bill, has been using programs that in themselves have been judged ahead of time in order to fail. It's shown, for example. that one of the biggest teams in the budget of the budget bill is exactly 4 billion tails on the land hospital business after it has been added - so that the human programmes have not been very well cared for. And then I just jump back to the income side that I was talking about earlier on page 5. 3 of the available minority opinion by permission of the President: ▪ The report on reevaluation of the 2019 year shows that a total of 30 billion dollars (U.S.) will be reduced. I was just about to end up, Mr. President, pointing out that the Ministry of finance itself estimates that there are 80 billion people around here every year who are not returned to the state funds. So I say again, there must be some effort in this government to further the collection. Now is a recession, hopefully for a short time, and in itself I have all the faith that it will be temporary, and just when the situation is over that it is more important to collect the state's funds as much as it can be. I frankly admit that here is a man who has been working for two decades to be a collector of a government fund and who cares deeply for the interests of the state and wants his best. That is why it may be the scariest, or what you're going through, both with the budget pay the other day and now with the financial bill coming up, that the caution and firm we've been talking about is not a hallmark of this government, unfortunately. I'm quite convinced that if you did follow the advice the Central Party has, for example. The next possibility is that it would be possible to achieve good results in collecting state funds, especially in larger companies that seem to pass over the network of the collection. Then I'll say again, we're supposed to make sure those who are employed are competing on equal terms. I mentioned the above example of this bedlifter, which I don't want to mention again in a foreign language, and it seems naturally contrary that we Icelanders have been living in the past few years, big minds, building a hotel, both in the city of Reykjavík, and especially in the country, and it seems that many of these hotels, elegant and well prepared, are not competing on equal terms because part of the operation they do not produce taxes and duties for the country. It's just plain annoying. It is not good for Latin to have a team that teaches itself in private contributions to the fact that several perimeter groups of Iceland's business and business companies are taking a market because of it and directly by not returning taxes and obligations and by competing with others who truly do. I have to say, there's a lot of work to be done. Also, there are smaller items in the budget bill asking yourself: " Were these unexpected expenses? Compare the additional cost of a new warlock of over 790 million. Was that surprising expenses? Did these men just surprise you? The ship had been made changes during the construction process. You ask, "What's the role of reserves when things like this happen?" I can give you another example: Foreign Hospital Service, a reevaluation of the year's expenses up to 410 million. K. I don't know how much of it, Mr. President, how often the one here has talked about sending people abroad to simple operations that cost two and a half times as much as you can get these actions done for Iceland and pay for that in cash. This is so crazy, Mr. President. There are 1,000 people waiting for a simple operation in Iceland. It takes now, I think, less than a year to get off the waiting list to get in on the waiting list. People wait for one year to get to a specialist who puts them on a waiting list after an operation. It will take another year. You've seen it since the last year, and you know a lot of people who have just given up on this, have not come to terms with it, and have thus produced 1,200,000 dollars themselves. on a man for a course performed in the Millennium. We're going up to the 2nd. Legal bill, two weeks ago or when it was now, up to 270 million. K. would be taken and a contract with the clinical community would be made for 270 million. It was financed, of course. I don't know if Mr. President remembers, but this proposal was given a roll call. It was published by every member of the Independence Party. And who is it, Mr. President, who is most likely to be caught up in waiting lists for replacement operations? Yes, there are those who do not have this million that are needed to avoid, for example. Clinical, within the country. Those who can find their way there. It has the highest. Healthcare Ministers managed to do this in a time of wonder that no health minister of the Independence Party I have ever remembered, i.e. to create double health systems in Iceland. Now, if you have money, you can buy out ahead of the queue and go to the Kingdom of the Year and pay them 1,200,000 dollars. (b) What will be considered in the next article? It is estimated that a replacement operation at Iceland's National Hospital will be at around 1 million. True, this has been a step in taking action in Akureyri, Acdéri, and elsewhere. Of course, Mr. President, at the Land Hospital, an emergency hospital and a university hospital, and the flagship in health care, has been loaded in, overworked hospitals, and exhausted staff, and tasks that can be done elsewhere, even in a more practical way. But that is not possible, since the independent party has joined the rest of Iceland's extremism in health care. The Independence Party is still on the watch, so that 1,000 people will be waiting for this simple operation because the Independence Party is not able to strike it through in the government that these measures will be brought back into the country with the increase in action it would result in. It's money - sparing for government funds, as you can see in this extra budget of 410 million. And it's just an extra deposit. More has been spent, Mr. President, on this operation last year because of the people who have gone to Sweden last year, the amount has been specified and has been applied as sufficient. According to European rules, any person who has waited for three months or more after an operation can rightly be expected to have an operation in another country within the European Economic Area. That is why it is a bonus because people have not accepted the privilege of waiting for three months or more and taking advantage of the rights they have to go and take steps abroad even though animals are available. Mr. President. It's just this one thing, and the things I've picked up for are very simple in itself. It would be possible to get these things all to a much better degree if it had been followed by a sensible, funding proposal made by the Central Party on budgets. Let us not forget that when a government law on government finance was established, it was intended to prevent this legal system from getting better with the financial contributions of each year. There are a number of factors in the budget bill that just indicate that it did not come true. I'm pointing to 5.4 billion due to the Court's Court's Court's Court's Court of Reunion and Reservation of Pays to Renal Penitentiary. You can tell yourself that a law passed in Iceland does not go back on its own. They could tell themselves that they were expecting humans to be resurrected and not to experience this injustice exactly as it was done. Are these financial contributions not to be expected? Not at all, Mr. President. Sadly, most members of the budget bill are growing so that they should have been prevented. Maybe that's what's the most embarrassing part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u191	Mr. President. Thank you. In many respects, a senator has a fine speech. Much of what was presented in his case was of great interest. In particular, I would like to mention these views that he mentioned about caution and firmness that I feel are of great importance when we discuss these matters and, in particular, that the last budget was a number of cautions that our appearance might not be as bright as people would like to trust in. Of course, it is difficult to foresee the future, but many of the warnings were given during the day. Then there's this classic rule: If you want to be careful and careful, you might want to keep a table for a carrying. It is wise to have a table before it, for otherwise it is likely to give too much weight and not be so sea - headed. I'd like to ask you what. A senator sees how much more and less he sees it in our system that we do not know how to exercise caution. Or is this because the government that is now ruling has decided not to be cautious and to be brought to ruin? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u192	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for this answer. The fact that we want to be careful and firm is clear that we are the middle - class people. This may well be seen in the fact that all the suggestions we have offered during the past two years have been fully funded and moderate in the amount of money. I remember that here were suggestions on the day of public service, which were up to 38 billion dollars, if I remember correctly, without financial resources. It is completely irresponsible, and it may in itself be put forth to dust people's eyes, who think that those who do not want such suggestions are not thinking about public interest. Far from it! The suggestions we have offered ourselves have been, as I say, moderate in habits, that can be fulfilled and given up. We've always stressed to be cautious, and I have just got to the point, and we've brought it up, because we're not a tax raise group, that the curses that have already been imposed should be collected. I reviewed earlier well that it is also necessary to look after competition. Yet, you may be suspicious, and you do not realize that there is any special concern about financial matters. Moreover, there was no special concern in the last financial bill because people suddenly woke up to a bad dream that many had warned. For the next few years, I am not particularly optimistic about the fact that people will always be able to control the financial situation of the State. It's a financial bill for the next fall, so I'm not very optimistic over the next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u193	Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's scoring for answers. Hv. A candidate in many parts of his talk, but he cut two things of great interest, first of all, collect taxes and pay back. Now we're both what we're supposed to be. Senators older than Tarves, who knows that there is always a need to be improved. There have been many reports trying to figure out how much this costs the community, and I don't think I'm gonna forget that according to the latest report, it could be up to 80 billion bucks, so it's not worth a few small things to do. This is often spoken of, but less is done, and you do not fully understand why it is. I don't know why. A senator may have some explanation for this. Then there's the other, and it seems to be in the highest order. Governments, there's a little business saving money and throwing the crown. Hv. A member of the Sanhedrin gave a very good example of this when he stopped talking about replacement operations. There we wholeheartedly agree that this funds would be used well to help the people who need such action and the savings that would follow, for the cost of having people unworkable and having to attend health care is enormous. [[The president calls.]] You do not fully understand what religion is all about, and you ask whether it is. A senator who is prominent in religion can explain this to me. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u194	Mr. President. Me and what. A senator is now dangerously close to what is called an encore and does not consider Latin to be good in this council hall, but it is likely to escape because we are at each end of the dunes. But, of course, the exact thing that goes by is right. A senator and I tore here that, first of all, the treatment of public funds is not exemplary in this government. And because we were talking about the health system and because we were talking about the Land Hospital, which is the natural flagship in Icelandic health care, and has had continued problems at all times during the last six, seven years, but it really doesn't happen: our decision should be made to put an emergency control over the Land Hospital. All fixed contracts in the Land Hospital have now been issued, and you do not know how that will affect them. Does it make people stumble from work there and still add to the problems of patients who are the natural customers in this equation, right? And because I mentioned earlier that the Independence Party is under way in the support of the clinical extreme: Who are they, Mr. President, who is behind, e.g. for replacement surgery? Yeah, they're the ones who can't pay for it to the Clinicals. There are those who cannot go to Sweden at the cost of the Icelandic government. They are the weakest, the weakest, the eldest, and the least among the hands. These are the people with whom the extremism of the Ministry of Health is now making their target, those are the least of them, the oldest, and the worst of all, to bear hand in hand for their heads, unfortunately. I've said that in the past, those who rule the government, each on his own, bring out the worst in each other, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u195	Mr. President. I just wanted to come in on a few points for a second. A senator brought in his talk, such as the collection of state funds. It turned out that this year we are adding another 3,200,300, or 350 million? I can't remember the numbers, I had them inside the budget board. They are adding a considerable amount of importance to this point that is being collected from the state funds. I just want to come in to Airbnb, too. That word may not be used here in the Hall of Congress, but it is usually spoken of under this hat. It was put on sleep-in supervision last May. It's about 68 million, if I remember correctly, and it proved very well, came back through fines and such factors. But what happened was that we also minimized what we believe to be a black job in tourism, in the gym, the hosting show in the tourism service. Well, I haven't heard the latest numbers on how this has developed, but we pretend to know that Airbnb has fallen a lot. It was estimated that when men left for the sleep-in operation, especially for Airbnb, they were about 80% black, but soon dropped to 50%. I don't have the latest numbers, but it's probably dropped considerably since then. The results of these activities are being achieved, and there seems to be a greater delay in travel efforts to get tourists into an approved boarding home and hotel. It is a process that is becoming now, and the current is moving there. I just wanted to make it happen. It's important that we bring in the stock of state funds and airbnbs and innsurrections. It is getting results exactly in these matters that I felt to be underestimated here in my speech. Senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u196	Mr. President. Thank you. In fact, it was indicated in my speech that I liked it very much, and I took it to the highest level. The Minister of Industrial, travel, and innovation would have set up this task force, and I welcomed it. For six years, I spoke here in this hall for deaf ears to see how this would be done. Of course I'm glad it's done. I also recognize tax reforms and tax returns. I also know that last year, the Central Party suggested that there be a minimum of 15 ratings, both for the head of state tax and for the head of the IRS. It was killed, of course. But I say again: Here is an old collector of the state funds, who has some experience in the way it is when men add to their tax system and take a hard look at it. Let me just give you a little example. That's what we've been saying over and over here, Middle-class people, last day, three weeks ago and a half ago. A senator mentioned before me killed. We're advancing customs patrols on the border. What's there? That's a package payment, Mr. President. There are millions and hundreds of millions who go to the courtyards because they do not want and have failed to show enough to further the precise customs of the border. I'm sorry. This has been pointed out repeatedly because some of us have experienced it. As for Airbnb, so I say again, Mr. President, I apologize but I've not been Icelandic to know, it seems to me that we are getting more valuable passengers, as it were, now than before, people who stay longer and, just as it were. One senator said, is staying in approved boarding homes. All of this, as in my speech, I attributed it to a better opportunity if necessary, and therefore, the middle class members, e.g. So the other day, customs service on the border would increase and supply 250 million or something, in both equipment and humanity, and it was cut down. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u197	Mr. President. There's another point I'd like to come in for foreign hospital service, the 410 million that are discussed in the budget. This may not be our primary concern regarding replacement operations abroad. These are Icelanders'travels abroad, and things that come up and fall under them. However, there is no objection to our income in the Icelandic health - care system of foreign tourists. That's exactly what it would be to balance. We have been asked about the budget board whether an overview is made of how much foreign tourists are paying for our health care services in order to obtain some of the corresponding numbers of these 410 million as a government fund for Icelanders on foreign travel. This is a number that is primarily related to it. Although there may be some intervention, it is not a major figure in this matter. But what's interesting about this increase and then the next item on the $2018 bill is that both the financial and financial accounts are actually different figures, different stability, but we have seen before in the Icelandic economy and how the strategy is going to work. In case of a moment. What an amazing change this is made by members of Congress! Maybe we'll just take it in the second discussion on the balance of state. The budget has three main features that include the big numbers in which we are adding. That's the sentence on senior citizens, that's unemployment and birth-corcuit money. These three things explain the large amount of money. If we handle these unexpected items due to the fall of WOW air and such factors, then the plan is incredibly accurate, i.e. The 2019 budget is incredibly successful. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u198	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator again. It would be informative to see the breakdown of this 410 billion. K. the health and medical costs of Icelanders abroad. But I'd like to point them out, though. The last person I knew had up to a quarter of what should have been collected from foreigners for medical procedures here in Iceland, small and large, both at the Land Hospital and in the Southland Health Organization and elsewhere, e.g. Southnes, don't come in. It seems that tourists, as you say, are released without paying and sending a giraffe order after them, and even that they are paying credit card that they're closing off once they're outside the dropout on the clinic. This is something we need to intervene in. Then I'll say again, it's necessary that men have the collection ready. Then I'm going to mention one point that's not here. Hv. A senator spoke of the quality of planning. This financial bill speaks of the lack of financial resources in relation to plans for 30 billion dollars. I was starting to say that there were 80 billion people around the economy. It takes more than 200 million men to try to fix that number, and we've suggested it, as I said, count many times. But there's one more thing I'd like to say in this second answer and now be good for a good time. A senator who is on the budget, that is, to bond with foreigners, i.e. Tourists here in Iceland, are escaping traffic fines, on an incredibly large scale, largely, Mr. President. I now know as a customer of foreign law enforcement that they're following you up here to Iceland, and there's a rental company involved in it. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why not here? What's wrong? [[The president calls.]] Why not try to correct this? It's international, and if it's possible abroad, why can't it be here? [[The president calls.]] It's a worthwhile assignment for what it's worth. A senator on the budget board. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u199	Wait a minute. Councilmen who respect the time limit, as well as encourage all members of the council to be brief and practical, so the program we are dealing with is long, and quite a few are still on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u200	Mr. President. To tell you the truth, I was now expecting to do so, and I am expecting that, as yet, the program has not been changed, that this was the next day of the council, and we would have come to the end of the matter. But that is not to say hello. Christmas must wait a while. We'll discuss a bill for financial support. The truth is, when you're standing here and you've been over the bill, you're listening first to the transmission speech at the highest level. The minister of finance, and then the discussion, is not free of the impression that you have been here before and that you really listen to the same talks back and forth. Of course, much of this is about our failure to comply with official financial laws. One of their primary objectives is to make it a cleaner exception that they need special funds. This does not seem to work out for us, and the differences or issues, let's call them, are more and less the same, i.e. People generally seem to be much more optimistic about economic developments, but there is a reason. You would have thought that gradually people would learn that it is unwise to rely too much on the foretold economic progress. Especially is this dangerous if, in view of optimistic predictions, humans take advantage of this opportunity - perhaps they are not necessarily optimistically optimistic at the time, I will not say anything about it, they are of course - to cock the bow. It's very dangerous, then there's nothing to be done so that you don't have to make any money like that. It's exactly the same as the budget we were going to agree with and the budget above, there were a lot of warning bells that called. A lot of what? Councilmen, including revered members of Parliaments, were tireless to point out that this was a dangerous place. It has occurred in itself during the day that it was completely exhausted. Of course, we should commend what has been done well. Many things have been done well, and in many respects we are doing very well, of course. But this does not change the fact that in this respect, we are not achieving the results of new laws or new laws, they are no longer new. They've been talking about how long we were in an adjustment phase, this time. Of course it takes time, but I think it's getting a long time. It was interesting to me what appeared to me in the opinion of a greater proportion of the budget laws on public finances and is all true and true. But I find it quite remarkable what's stated in the O.R. reviews on the bill. If I may quote the opinion of the greater part of the President's review of the President's bill: A review of this bill states that it is in all principle in accordance with official financial legislation. There must be some concern and concern for the financial management of the country's population that Government Accounting states that the bill is fundamentally in accordance with law. I find in the Committee and the bill itself and the report very easily polarized that the project is essentially in accordance with law. You would have thought that it was a special government trajectory, especially in financial matters, that their advancement was in perfect harmony with law. We're gonna go for a second. Senators at least expect to attend. so that when we set laws here at the General Assembly that they are carried out in all respects. If a person fails to do so, more often than not, there is a law against governments. You can't get away with just part of the law. This seems to me to think of things that governments should take more seriously. Of course, there will be people who predict the future to support economic forecasts. There is something else that can't be done. This discussion has often been held that one does, and of course they do. But there's been something bound to one particular fortune, The Habitat. There is now no law on public financial matters that says that it is the only economic project to take notice of. There are a lot of people who predict what's going on. They can be quite different, so they certainly have a problem with the people who are building their plans to choose what economic predictions should be considered. But in view of my experience, I am a little surprised at how much government is reluctant to care for other matters when making financial decisions, how much they bind themselves to one particular projection. Since then, we know that we have made significant progress. I don't want to belittle it. We've made a lot of progress, I just want to say, to the economy and then I'm looking particularly at the fact that we've achieved a significant level of inflation. It has become more stable than it once was in the community. More important, though, is that we do not forget it, and we should never forget that there are other factors that can make matters worse. We've been in the water for a long time. We're a resource-powered economy, and there can be financial failure. Bad weather can happen. It can lead to sea and land, and we experienced just a few days ago that the weather cooled down and caused great damage. That's why I think that when we live in such a society, it's even more important for us than maybe. Many other communities - and yet, we may not be more special than all other communities, they live in various external situations that may lead to unexpected setbacks - but it is important to make sure that they have a table for food. It has to be said, just as it is that in the time of this government, the ransom bow has been very excited. In a way, humans have more and less striven to spend each dollar, and there is no good way to manage it. We also know from bitter experience that there are waves and waves. It is true that in many ways, we are in a better position than often before, and perhaps a more harsh recession in the economy will not have occurred in the past. Yet, how important it is that we always look carefully! When the bow is pressed high, and the government's management spending is increased to such an extent as it is seen, a recession becomes difficult when it must be cut into the business of the state. This is important to bear in mind. That is why it is a measure of frustration, as I mentioned earlier, that at least we seem to be able to say to ourselves: We are taking control of the new arrangement that the laws on public finances are taking place. We are still in the same area. We'll raise some money. One of the primary objectives was to try to rule it out, and, of course, it will never be possible. We know that. There will always be unexpected events. But we also have a new arrangement involving reserves and reserves that are exactly what constitutes a backup. They should be taken only if necessary. However, this reserve may have been highly tried, not necessarily because something unexpected has happened but rather than because of making decisions that could not be expected in financial matters. That's not good. We simply need more discipline in all these matters. It is not so, as it has previously been said in my case, that this has not been warned, and it has been pointed out by a number of experts involved in these matters. I hope that the year is not that we will experience the same discussion again, that the reserve is still being walked, not necessarily in harmony with the purpose, that the bow was too excited, that the economic and economic conditions are not always the best. I hope, though, that all these discussions will gradually lead to that - or nothing gradually; I hope it is indeed sufficient - that we do not have to go over it again, at least the next time we are during this season at the council, we do not have to repeat the same talks and make the same comments as we now do. I sure hope it doesn't.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u201	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. Toward the end of it, a senator declared that he hoped that we would not be in that same situation at the same time of the year. I'm not as hopeful as what I am. A senator that will be, as we have just finished the discussion on budgets that repeatedly pointed out problems in various areas. For a long time, we talked about a lack of plans for a regional district attorney and a tax investigator, for example. Of course, we discussed health issues and now, for example. is a very serious situation in the Land Hospital, where this year it needs to be cut down. He's not here for the money. You can also consider the priorities of the government, for that is not so that all the changes proposed by the government were unpredictable. This was shown in the case of a man. Today's council members also say that there is a political priority. However, if any suggestions on the use of money are available, the hospital is not arranged. I want to pray. A senator to review it with us why he feels that there is hope or whether there is any hope over his head, so that we do not find ourselves in the same situation over a year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u202	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. I have to admit it may be because it's getting a little late, but I just saw it as soon as possible. A senator started asking me questions about my hopes, and I see it in my hand right now that I was basically two years ahead, and I wholeheartedly agree with it. Senator. Given the budget and this bill now, I think we should. You see, a senator was right; we will stand in exactly the same situation. I just see it when I think about it, maybe I was next round. We've just approved the budget. They are about the same limit burned as the above, they don't rhyme. It's just that way. Of course, there is always a balance between income and spending. I fear that in many areas the government's business spending has increased so much that it will be very difficult to fulfill all those promises. At the same time, it is clear that there are, however, major aspects of the Kingdom work that must be financed. However, there is another way to do this. [[The president calls.]] We know that there are some ways to do this, but they are not used.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u203	Mr. President. When the government's making these poor plans like this one at the highest level. Government does, there's something about the budget being moved. I want to ask you why. A senator will agree with me that the Ministry of Ministers in this government is more prominent than you've seen in the past few years. After the study report, a minister was large before the collapse, and after the conference, all of us agreed here in the hall to support the council against the European Commission, the executives who work here on our responsibility. I thought it was something like that. Especially prominent when we were discussing funding for the district attorney and the head of the IRS during the days and the highest. The Ministers repeatedly argued that this was not a problem, for they would see for themselves, if it was true that the embezzlement of the office, which was submitted to the financial bill would be worth something, they would take action. And when you're assigned from the reserves, which can be done only for something that's completely unpredictable, you don't have to check it for the council. All you have to do is report a budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u204	Mr. President. Thank you. Harðardóttir So much for a Oddný Hardydotte. I think this is exactly a very good point, and I also think it's more obvious than often before, what, like the cot. A senator put it, the Minister's getting a lot of time. It is also noteworthy that the Ministry has become so extensive that the Ministers compete with one another to take an assignment to themselves from the table of their fellow ministers. It's getting really big. But that may not have been the case. A senator was asking about it. I don't think it's a good thing, and this, of course, is particularly disappointing because the government that is now under pressure, so much so that it let the government's treaty go away, increasing the way and respect of the Council. She put forth special emphasis on having much and good consultation with the Council. Sadly, though, experience has become quite the opposite, which is, of course, a tragic one. Because while you may not have been a special fan of the government when it was put together, you somehow felt that it was actually an experiment to strike that new note by doing it this way. But there is no hope that the government will take any note of this government's success and advancement in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u205	Mr. President. We'll discuss budgets or bills for financial support by 2019 C.E. A smaller section of the budget committee returned a common committee program where the proposals of the greater part are criticized and how reserves are used, for example, and the plans are simply criticized. I'd like to, before we continue to review just what our baseline values are under the government laws on public finances. What is it that governments are supposed to be like a red thread through all their decisions through financial policies, through the financial agenda, and then by the budget and the implementation of budgets? These five values, all of which are equally important and have the equal significance of these fundamental laws on which the State then operates. The policy should be based on the following baseline, with the permission of a president, and can be found in Article 6. it's a government law. First, it is sustainable that reveals commitments are more manageable to the short and long term and will not impose unreasonable burdens on future generations. Selfishness has a special meaning and has a economic meaning, but also social and environmental, so all three of the factors involved in that concept need to be taken into account. Selfishness is not simply a major debt that will bring on future generations but also other decisions, such as the environment. Second baseline value of 6 g. The law of the law is careful to aim for proper balance between income and pay, and to avoid making decisions or circumstances that can have unexpected and negative consequences. It must be done with caution, and governments must assume that tables are served. There may be an emergency, and it should be assumed that it is possible to deal with the unseen problem. The third baseline is a stabilisation of the policy of public finances that contributes to the economic balance. Of course, stability is very important, but it needs to be financial, so we are not dealing with extreme fluctuations and alienation in the financial affairs of the State, but it also needs to be social. It must be social stability instead of having state funds or debt or the rest of the state's funds take down swings, or let the welfare system get down swings, it doesn't work if we want to stay social stability. Mr. President. Do I have so little time left? I noticed that it was beginning to blink on me. But I'll keep going where it was left off. I was discussing the third value of stability. We need to set aside social and economic stability. A fourth value is established, which involves avoiding unexpected or unexpected changes from existing policies and programmes for the development of public funds. Me and the Icelanders have a little problem with this. It's hard for us to plan ahead. After a few weeks or months, we are likely to change our plans according to the way the wind blows. One of the reasons why our environment is not so tight is our currency, our dollar, which is a tiny, independent currency that is highly swinging. There has been one explanation that it is difficult for us to think ahead, since we do not know exactly what the location on the crown will be a month before. But the laws that we set for ourselves that we set around public finances are precisely assumed that we look ahead, plan ahead, pick them up, and stick to them. The fifth and final value for all government budgetary policies is a transparency that involves setting clear and measurable targets for medium-term development of public funds according to the values baseline. These are the values under financial policy, the financial budget under budget, and they are particularly important, and they were meant to lead us to change the course. Because we're talking about the budget now, the budget was a fairly serious problem in the past because it was a stroke in which budgets were underestimated and then, of course, only exceeded. Maybe that's all you could do. Or there were issues, political songs, which were then handled in financial terms. If we looked back in history, we could expect that 5% of the budget could be added or 5% of expenses will be covered by the natural budget. When we considered this and tried to prepare the bill on government finance, we thought, "Well, if this is true, that something will always come up with us that we don't pretend to support when we're accepting the budget, then let's just assume that we have some room for the unexpected. Hence, the law on public financial matters speaks of a large reserve that goes against every level of language to deal with that which is totally unpredictable. There are very strict conditions around the big reserve. Not only is it possible to approach him in this way after the practicality of the minister of finance but there is good reason to do so. In par. 24th. Public financial laws speak of a complete general reserve to deal with temporary, unpredictable, inevitable expenses, and cannot be handled in any other way under public financial laws. The reserve will be worth at least one percent of the budget. But then it is a minister who makes decisions on the provision of funds from a reserve fund and informs the World Health Organization for its use when a decision is made. These are very strict conditions. V.E.G. Ministers should not play with this reserve or assume it before the budget begins to enter the reserve. It should be merely for something we cannot see for now. It can be a volcanic eruption, it can be a storm, or it can be a storm, or anything that can cause great damage, as well as economics, and the reserve can be taken back to fix it. But the rest, i.e. It's a set of reserves for litigators. More is thought - provoking, so there are less stringent conditions around the reserve for the mercenaries. There is a degree of flexibility in the litigation of the mercenaries, or institutions, working under litigation in order for a minister to act without specifically bringing it into the budget. I speak as an example of the class in which high school is concerned. For example, if a student is unforeseeable, he can be caught in the seminary's reserve if he exists. But now the Ministry has not set up a reserve for all lawsuits. So this flexibility is not always there. Mr. President. By the laws on public financial matters, there were narrow conditions to seek additional financial resources by means of financial contributions. The idea was that the plans would be difficult, and their implementation would have taken into account the five important values that should depend on the whole policy, and that we would not have to be on budgets that were taking care of such matters here and there, or that the funds were used to raise some kind of policy or what the government once thought of, but should all be put together by the feds; in finance, finance, and so on the budget. Sadly, though, and because we've just taken up the budget, it's so freshly reduced the criticism that presented the figures that the administrative body approved in the budget. There are many major areas of affairs where there was clearly not enough money and clearly that somehow it would have to be taken in 2020. Of course, talking there is the closest thing to health care. We only need to open our magazines and Web sites to see that we have a serious problem there. We now stand, for example. The hospital has to contend with four billion people. It's taken from the budget of the next year. The health system to be at the top of the highest priority. The government is in great trouble when the vote period is half over, and it does not show that it is being made up as promised, and it is written in the government's declaration of policy. In the budget bill, there's a new proposal that's up to 40 million. K. to the health care center in Southnesia, there. They say, if I understand correctly, these 40 million have been forgotten. They should have come on the bill, not as a change in proposal now. It can be realized that there is already a problem with government institutions in the South. The number of inhabitants has increased in the last five years by about 30%. The budget for the institutions, I don't talk about health institutions, is based on the average population growth over the year. They don't even look at the area and take action when things like this happen. Of course, when things like this are going to happen, the authorities should look at that unprecedented position. Then there is another factor that has long been known to have special compositions in Southnes, and this calls for a number of costs that are not elsewhere. In Smokeytown, a quarter of the population of foreign berries is broken. It requires interpretation services and other things. Of course, this 30% population increase calls for increased service, illness, and injury, such as in other territories. But service does not respond. That's what we knew. When we agreed on the budget for 2020, we were also well - aware of this. But they did not respond. So we will likely be in the same situation in a year with millions to compensate for a poor plan under the budget. Mr. President. Finally, I want to talk about what has been called the Minister's Department, and much was discussed in the General's study report, much discussed in the 2010 Parliament. There was then an agreement with the Council, where all 63 members agreed to promote the council and strengthen the council against the European Commission. The Congress tells the Commission what to do, not the council, but what to do. I'm worried about it, Mr President, that the Minister's going on again. Of course, much was before a crash, and members of Congress kept something out of the picture. With the highest company. Governments to the reserve are increasing Ministership. When ministers stand here in a pit and say, "Yes, yes, there is no way that there will be a certain cost here. And the cost for the district attorney's office and the tax investigator for the U.S. Army documents is the closest thing to talking about. When ministers stand here in a pit and say, "We in the government will make sure that the government gets some money. We haven't decided on how generous we are in this regard. And, in fact, think it's the Ministers who'll take the money. But that's not the case, Mr. President. It's the council that holds the budget. We senators need to be more determined against the Ministers. Hv. Councilmen, whether in command or in position of government, need to assemble to strengthen the Senate's position against the Commission. V.E.G. Ministers serve as members of the council, and the council is not to be one of the top desks. Government. I make that my final statement about a bill for a budget law for 2019 C.E.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u206	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A new Harðardóttir Daughter for the speech. There is a reason. A member of the panel met several times in the talk, which focuses on the laws on public finances and their implementation, and I will have to some extent a similar feature of my speech afterward. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, an ex - secretary of finance, how she feels has managed with the processing and implementation of public financial laws set up in 2015. Now we are probably in the fourth lap, as it were, on the basis of that law, and it seems to you to be a significant source of burden on things under it, especially on the reserves and on the way the council is enlightened about their use. As for the big movie, I'd like to ask you what. Its experience is based on the way she has made it and on whether she envisions the wisdom of making changes or taking note of how the law has been carried out and whether it is wise to make changes within a short period of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u207	Mr. President. I thank a senator for his questions. This is how, since we agreed to a government law on government finance, three governments during the four years have worked on it. Of course, there is not a good start with a large law code that is supposed to change behavior. It's always a big challenge to change some kind of tradition and behavior into a big, heavy system. But that is exactly what the law was supposed to do. There's a lot of good in those laws, and I don't want to give up on them right now. But the obvious fact is that the transparency is not sufficient. The evidence needs to be more important, and we senators need to be more involved or to know more about what we are accepting and exactly. I can think of a year ago when we were discussing the budget, I was offering just a few extra funds for the South American Institute of Health and Southnesia Health because of events that were not anticipated. There was a lot of discussion here and the budget board, and the Ministry came and God knows what. My proposals were dropped, but just before the New Year's Eve, the highest level was emptied. Ministers to one of the top teams who did the same thing as these proposals. [[The president calls.]] If the highest. A minister would have come to a pit and said, "I'm here with all the teams, we'll sort it out this way, and we'd have saved time and energy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u208	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. That's exactly what I think part of the concerns I have with the project may be involved. In his earlier speech, a senator called for more ministers, and he came to some extent in his reply. Then I'd like to ask myself what. A member of the Parliament, whether or not there is something we could do in the early stages of the year, would bring up some specific information for the treatment of the two reserves we should call after, have thought of now, whether it is the administrative body member who calls for it in early stages next year or better at the highest level. The secretary of finance first gave them information. I'm giving it to a budget board, but, of course, more of the members of Congress don't have a budget seat so that the access of our senators, who don't have a financial committee, is rather limited. I'd like to ask you what. Again, in view of her knowledge of this financial environment from her former profession, if there is any point of remembrance that we should put in our place now regarding the collection of information of the previous part of the next year that might save us to be in this situation, at least Partly, when the next cycle arrives.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u209	Mr. President. I think it's good to have the government set up a financial policy at the beginning of a terms when she looks at the basic policies to be, but I want to take away the financial rules. I just want every government to tell us how they visualize the key numbers and there's some curve in it so that governments don't put on their own straitjackets, such as financial advice has criticized the policy so far. I want the government, as soon as possible after it meets, to put down financialism, the big design, which is designed to be made so that it is not being adopted for a year as happened in this government with its first course, which was also criticized. They'd have had the chance to do it differently. The financial agenda is also extremely important for policy development and that policy is clear for each case, and we senators can determine, in any way, whether the amount set in financial programmes can follow policy. But there must be more transparency. I don't want to go back to the place where a representative of the budget board was making $500000 and a million dollars, but I missed the billions. We're supposed to spend most of our time on the big numbers, but we also need transparency to see into the smaller ones completely. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-12-44.u210	Mr. President. Here we will discuss a bill for financial support by 2019, as the discussion has repeatedly shown. Much of the discussion has been about what is such as old history and new matter, trying to get to the bottom of it, arguing back and forth whether certain expenses were predictable or not. Of course, both parties, of course, have a point of view, and I don't intend to spend much time arguing about it or making opinions as to which factors were predictable and which factors were less predictable. I think that every time the government has to have some time to deal with the issues that may arise, and things can be unpredictable, tasks may be unpredictable, and expenses may be invisibility, even though the big film may have been placed in budgets at a time. So I don't intend to spend much time criticizing the existing financial bill. Rather, I'd like to take more of the underlying laws on public finance and how we can look forward to improving the transparency and making it easier for the members of our body to figure out both the use of money and the overall picture. Of course, there is a considerable amount of money to be spent on the side of the bill for financial support and then the two types of reserves that have been discussed here. Hv. paritaprevir For example, my daughter, Harðardóttir G., who spoke before me, came into contact with those who are on the other side of a class of proverbs and then with the other reserve called a general reserve. Under such circumstances, the amount of money is largely below that. That is what 24 C.E. says. the law on public financial matters, with the prescription of the General Product Fund A, that a reserve should be provided except for at least 1% of the budgets. A general reserve of 1% of budgets is enormously money. I'm going to allow myself here, as I have done in the past, to criticize how little transparency is available to us senators who are not represented by a financial committee. You just have to make sure that the information the members of the budget are getting at their meetings to explain this in part. Of course, this should be included in a copy, or addition to any of the provisions we have to make, we must be able to watch a bill for financial support and the handling of these reserves as a whole. Of course, the reserves are much bigger than those listed in the bill to the current budget. In my opinion, it is absolutely minimal that we senators who are to be treated with the funds have a better overall view of this. They're big numbers, they're taxpayers' money, and we're supposed to respect them properly. I'm not saying that the Ministers are spending money from reserves to some kind of nonsense, like that. But we need to consider this in context. We are in a position to have even now said on page 19. 4 more part of the Commission's bill for budget money by 2019, on permission of presidents: ▪ In a discussion on bill for budgetary and the annual collection of state funds within the year, the Committee still faces the challenge of not having a clear overview of the financial rights of individual lawsuits and the use of reserves. The use of reserves, and even individual museums where they are still on the people, is not yet targeted. This is a fourth - cycle standard for the handling of budgets and financial contributions after the judicial hearings of public finances were passed. I reiterate that this is a text from a large part of the budget board. The access to information is much better than the group that is prepared for this document and that is to be written by the expected routine representatives of the majority of the committee. Further, by permission of the president, the greater proportion of the committee goes on to say: ◯ Therefore it is not completely clear whether the legal process of public finances has been fully implemented. Legislators and government are required on official financial law to use the reserve so that they meet unexpected expenses, including those in the 34th century B.C.E. a law on government finance, under the heading Budget Monitoring in the budget year, says, by permission of presidents: The financial status of the Member State of Period A to which the national competent authority is involved should be monitored regularly and analysed and responds to the risk and weaknesses of the operation. If there is a risk of spending beyond the budget, he should seek ways to reduce the cost within the year, transfer of funds within the legal case, or use a reserve so that expenses do not exceed the budget. With that 34. under official financial legislation, the counsellers of each class insist that this monitoring is ongoing through the year and that people take a reserve as one of the available ways and tackle a solution if expenses are being taken out of the frame. The Matrix must expect its monitoring to be stable from approximately the second quarter of each year. As a result, it should be quite simple to present this information with the data we have in front of us in relation to the budget because they are all ready a long time ago. All this information is available, and in this context, I'd like to criticize this procedure, for it is of course the plan of public finance to make the whole process more beneficial, predictable, and more stable. What has failed completely in that part is that things will be more beneficial. It is very difficult for members of Congress, especially those who do not have a financial committee, to have a good sense of how subsidies are developing in terms of spending, and it is quite difficult to perceive in terms of reserves, both general reserves and reserves of each language class. This is a thing I wanted to mention in that context. And to keep the context together, it is stated in the 19th paragraph. law on government finance that a reserve for each seminar should be except for a maximum of 2% of the legal resources of the party. In any case, these two funds, the general, and the people associated with them play an enormous amount of money. This will be the end of this criticism of government law on public finances and how they are carried out in the work of the government. Like what? Harðardóttir Oddný's true that there were three governments here who have worked under this rule during the four years it has been in effect. It does not change that the institutions' memory of the administration should keep a good eye on this, and this is so that in two of the three governments, a financial minister has the same position. The minister. Then I'll step away from this part of my speech, and I'm going to take on a point that turns on transportation and communications. I cannot find it in the available evidence, but on page 18. 59 in section 11.20, in the self-involved budget on communication, three tasks are presented. This is a proposal, first of all, to add funds to a project that has to the post and communications agency, to the Agency itself. Then, in two specific areas, a suggestion is made due to a fibre fixation. What I would like to get information about is the funding of this operation, which, overall, is about 106 million. It suggests that indiscriminate funding due to a service contract with Farice within the year will be proposed to be used to finance the projects. Is this estimated to be 106 million? K. The question I would like to leave behind, in the context of getting an answer between discussions, turns to Farice's Service Convention. What is responsible for the introduction of unmoved funds from a service contract, up to 106 million. K.? Was the advantage in plans, or were you not using any of the services of Farice in a service contract? Service contracts provide a framework, and the prospect of forming in this case I would think that should be considerable. Hence, it is surprising that there is a shortage of budget for 106 million who are being moved to other projects. I'd like to leave that question here, and I'd like to answer it for the 3rd. I wish by means of the President to deliver that request. I'm not going to have these words much more in my speech. I just reiterate that it is important to accept a law on public finances that is now making its fourth key consideration, the senators, and the Ministers try to determine where they have done well. I'll let myself, for example. claiming that the prejudicial nature of this rule is of the good. But I believe at the same time that there is an indiscriminate and more advanced Ministership that seems to follow this rule of legal action on public finances, at least As they have been done, so is evil. The transparency has been reduced. It's harder for members of Congress, especially those who don't have a budget, to get information, and it's harder to get a full picture of the extra-defined budgets on a budget bill when it is impossible to look at the two budgets and the reserves in context.
