ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u1	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Culture, Minister of Social Affairs and Children's Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u2	A respectable president. It's interesting what was shown in the case of the head of the Agency for the last weekend on the resources of the country. He spoke very clearly and said that it was not the purpose of the fishing system to make a few superpowers. I think everyone realizes that this is part of the problem and topic we face today. Today, the general re-election of the agreement of the presidents of the political parties is at the highest level. The prime minister leads with great honor and takes eight years. I'd have liked to see the overall reexamination finish in this terms, but good and good, it's better to take some step than none. There is now a suggestion for a resource policy that comes from the prime minister and is in the consultation puzzle. It is clear that mine knows that contracts need to be made to ensure the permanent possession of the nation, not of its structure, but of its people, their resources, and then the reasonable and just price for access to our resources. All classes except one, the Independence Party, have brought up the issue of passing contracts and now the head of the forward party, as I say, in a totally decisive way. That's why I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister, if he will take advantage of the resource directive when he or she is being consulted with the intention of temporalizing the access to the resource and that a reasonable, normal amount of money will come into the resource directive.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u3	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for raising an issue on this important matter, and I'd like to begin by saying that I'm particularly pleased that a senator here says about the overall review of the Constitution - I can, of course, understand their point of view. A senator wanted to speed up the process - that one step is better than none, for I agree with it. I think it was really important that we get some real steps in the constitutions and build on the work that has been done. As for the resource problem, it is true that it has been in a consultation process and that it is still working out the comments it received. The law that included the consultation puzzle, which was, of course, discussed in the prefects before it went there, shows that no one can obtain the natural resources of Iceland for possession or permanent use. I think that if we put this law into it, it would be clear that no one could receive access or resources for permanent use or possession. So I think it is simply part of the law that we have already introduced. In fact, I think it's also true that since we discussed here, the fishing system at the elected season of 2009-2013, it was under severe control in this hall, that the way it was proposed did not conflict with a valid constitution, which was proposed as a means of detriment to a certain period of time. I view and agree with the head of the Agency, and I believe that we are now most agreed that our resources in national property will not be returned to anyone for property or permanent use. The law we set in our consultations includes it in a very clear and decisive way. [[The president calls.]] There is also a requirement for payment, and I find it further in my later answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u4	A respectable president. It is clear that experts do not necessarily agree with this approach. Prime Minister, that it is quite impassable that the resource has been temporarily secure when it comes to its development. It's important that we record this, and that's why I reiterate my question to the highest level. Prime Minister, especially with regard to the fact that earlier this terms, only during the last assembly, all of the administrative parties, along with the Central Party, refused to make temporary agreements regarding the access to the resource. It was refused. If this is the highest understanding. Prime Minister, why do we not feel secure in making this clear in the constitution? Which, in the opinion of the prime minister, is more important than ensuring the right of the nation to control its resources and to obtain a natural fee, securing it in a constitution, or perhaps more important for prime minister to hold the government together and keep the independence party good?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u5	Mr. President. Which is more important, when we discuss our constitution, the narrow rate interest rates, or the task of creating as the highest solidarity of real changes in the constitution? Hv. A senator has often heard me talk about these matters, and she knows that it's my attitude and my vision that all of us, not just me, because I'm not the only one who changes the constitution, that's part of the Generals, and hopefully as much as possible, we're supposed to be able to cross over this scene of the day where we're here when we're talking about government issues. Because of what? A senator mentions a provision made by saying: "No one can get these qualities or rights for possession or permanent use. ' I think it's perfectly clear, but I'm willing to review it with all the experts whom the heads of the clans want to discuss the interpretation of this law, as well as the means in which it was submitted to the payment of the arrangement. [[The president calls.]] We must also realize that when we discuss national resources in a constitution, we're not just talking about fish, we're talking about all the resources. A senator knows, and the law must cover all of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u6	A respectable president. Here in 2018, there were some 16,000 homes, with over 31,000 people living under minimal income. Is it normal that 15,000 individuals and 3,000 people have a serious lack of material goods? There are thousands of children who suffer a significant lack of material things, who live only in very few possessions - and at the same time as the rich get richer and richer. This group includes people who have experienced impaired farms. Now I understand that it should not be corrected for two years. Is that right, chief? Minister? What is being done for this group of individuals who are well under minimal income and who suffer permanent poverty? [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] Then there's another group I want at the highest level. Minister on why the strange situation of being the only group that gets a little Christmas and holiday bonus. The only group affected. This group has been cut down all year, the only group standing out there, and they also have a low Christmas bonus and holiday bonus. I ask, " What on earth did this group of people do to make themselves worthy of being the only group taken out of the equation and not being able to get the exact same Christmas bonus as everyone else, uncivil, group of poorer people and older citizens? ' We know that this is a small Christmas bonus, a small holiday settlement, half the size of a job, four or five times less than ours. I ask, "Why on earth do these hunger lice have to be cut off?"
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u7	The president's asking for a sound in the side room.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u8	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this inquiry. In fact, three factors are asked. First, what is the government doing for those individuals and for the homes that are at stake? Many of the measures that are part of the biography agreements called "returned" to this group because these are not all micro-energy pensioners. They are also low incomes, joblesss, and others. The activities involved in housing are particularly related to this group; actions that may include: was introduced to a New York Hall yesterday and special share loans are particularly relevant to this group. The tax measures were especially against this group. All the measures in the housing situation in general are focus on this group. The government is setting between 3 and 4 billion over the years in a general apartment where new rent stores are to be built, especially for this group, in the general apartment system, so there are many activities being done. But I agree with what. A senator that we need to do more, and we always need to consider how we can do more for this group. The task is never finished. For farms that were also asked for correction until two years, I don't know if they're going to be fixed until then, but I don't know that there's anything going on with the schedule that was presented at the time for correction around structural impairment, that some of it would immediately be corrected and that it would be later due to the need to call for evidence and call for information. All I know is that it's in good shape. Then, with the last question about the Christmas and holiday bonus, I don't know that it's merely the rules of December and holiday, both for micro-energy transplants, for out of work, for parents of long-term children and others. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's not making any changes now between years.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u9	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. Of course, having a home is fine, but not enough. Food and clothing are needed. But the other thing is that the only thing these people did wrong, about which I was asking, which doesn't get holiday bonus and Christmas bonus, is that they paid in a pension fund. It paid for a pension fund. These people's pension fund is reduced by 38.9%, 45% for microchips, and also for the Christmas bonus. It's just as if it were done to working people, that overtime was used for cutting down. Why is it necessary to use the same thing when the person has been cut down all year? Why can't these people get their Christmas bonus and holiday bonus without impairment? Is it some Δissjà-a-yhía? Why do you have to use this opportunity year after year to do this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u10	A respectable president. First, I'd like to say that I felt that the Senator waslittleing the importance of having a place and a roof over his head because that's one of the most important things we've ever had. At the beginning of this terms, it was said that all too high a proportion of people's earnings and especially the most income - rich groups went to housing costs, and therefore the government has placed the main focus on housing matters throughout its work, with the goal of looking specifically at the lowest income and poorest interest in this society. That is where we have a number of measures just to get our hands on it. The lower percentage of housing costs, the greater the provision. Then I'll just say what I said earlier: We're working on the same system that's been involved. But it's so that I've called for an increased political solidarity to make changes to the improvement system, simplify it, reduce the number of subsidies, and so on because this system is very complicated and particularly to the inter-individual impairments and factors. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm calling for what? A senator and others come with us on a new - year journey.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u11	The president wishes that there be a sound at the council's side halls.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u12	V.E.G. President. June 19th. We agreed at the General Regulation of the EU, which aims at a so-called free movement for the services of the environment and the media services on the internal market of the EEA. The Regulation recommended the obligation of the services of audio and imaging services to have the services available outside the home country of subscribers when temporarily located in another Member State, as it is said. The server does not agree with this Regulation, since it is not a subscription service, so those Icelanders who are outside of Iceland cannot get to all broadcasts in the U.S.R.A. The reason is that some programs are due to a number of reasons that make it inaccessible to those with foreign IP numbers. Nevertheless, they pay taxes and duties in Iceland and including radio fees. So I want to ask the highest. Minister to how the situation is in the important matter of concern to Icelandic taxpayers living outside the cliffs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u13	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator's inquiry. It involves matters that matter, i.e. access to services of RUS for those living abroad. One of our priorities in a new service contract is to increase this bioavailability so that those living abroad have access to RUS. It is also about our language. There are many who go out temporarily to serve or study. It is very important for children and young people to have access to Icelandic substances. I agree with that. A senator's concern is this, and this is highlighted in a new service contract that will be completed by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u14	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answer. We agree, and the more important, when we members of the Central Party presented this case to the last assembly, we received a review of the case from RUS, which specifically stated that in the direction of RUS, RUS would want to work on making it possible for Icelanders to listen or to watch all the radio's access system. It was also noted that there is small technical work to be done, but I really hope that the year will be revealed because, already, RUSV can decide what material to watch. I mention various events, e.g. Eurovision. Then it's as if all I need is to press one button that tells me that technology has arrived. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to insist on a secretary to speed it up as far as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u15	A respectable president. I agree with the senator to speed things up. Bioavailability and equal access to services, welfare services, are important. It is important to have good access to this program. As I say, this will be made clear in a new service contract that we're finishing with RUSH.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u16	A respectable president. Reports of the recent history of Namibia's industrialized giants have reminded many people of why these people became so madly rich and powerful. Still another trip is in the attic of the community because of what many experience as the wrong method of fishing. There is no difference in the fact that there is an inflammation of the VG sequence. Last night, the outfit lost one of its most powerful members. A great protest has been made in Eastern fields, and during the days, a sound was heard from a corner of the self - creation of the cry system, the forwarding party, when Sigurður Ingi Jóhannesson said in a speech at the Middle Council that the system had not been created for some individuals to become superpowers or that the funds that resulted in increased wealth could pass through in national accounts. Now that the head of the Action Party has seen the light, perhaps it is advisable to wonder whether there may be new things created in the council for a long time before timely improvements in this system, which has been so powerful that all groups of members of a council, except the Independence Party and his side party, could agree to establish a system that could settle for the nation, even to name the terrible word of an tender tender discharge, and even appear on a board of resources in a constitution that requires a full amount of money.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u17	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry on a case that has been, such as the question of trouble. A senator rightly pointed to, debated in the community for many years. It's enough to recall the season of '04-2013 when a pack of whales. A member and my team were in the government together, and they gave a bill to change the system so that temporary renewal would be issued, where temporary permission was required, and it would certainly be based on experience and what has been good with the fiscal system, e.g. In terms of sustainable use, but things would be changed, and thus tried that the nation would exercise the control of the resource, thinking that this was published by permission on the part of the State on behalf of the nation. But the matter could not be completed here at a council hall, which was very controversial, of course, and was faced with great opposition. What changed, however, was the application of the special fishing fee. In fact, I believe that the change that was now made at that price is an improvement where the price is being extended. A 33% currency ratio of the stock is proposed to provide us with a considerably higher price in the coming year than the old arrangement would have done and in many ways build on the same ideologies laid down in 2012 when the special fishing fee was set up, where investments were detracted. Hv. A senator asks: " Is there a convergence? Well, we have, of course, criticized the way out. A senator points in. [[The president calls.]] We are just concerned about the compression that has followed the financial system and would follow such systems unless there were a lot of roofing into the export system, so, of course, there would be a lot of talk to be taken care of. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u18	A respectable president. It was a good time when we were in the government together and hopefully soon come back with other friends of ours who feel the same way. In the direction of the left movement a green supply, which is the policy that voters will likely put to work when they decide to choose the offer, says the President: The second step is to allow, in part, to be confined to the structure and method of fishing, and, on the other hand, in part, confined to the areas of the country and rural areas, and to be offered to define ways for distribution. According to this policy, V.G. can be understood as having a full discussion of an outcoming. I remind you, when we talk about fishing fees, that when the current government took over then the fishing fee was 11 billion, but now it's 5. [[The president calls.]] That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u19	Mr. President. If we were to tell the story of the hunting fee all the way it is so that if the same system remained, it would have returned about 2 billion, but the change we made on the system gives us a considerably higher sum of money. Hv. A senator needs to tell the whole story when talking about changes in hunting costs. An undivided system would have returned a lot less than the amount given by the change made by the present government. Hv. A senator mentioned the resource directive in his inquiry. I just want to reiterate what I said in my answer to what I did. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir earlier, it is very important that this is where a position of agreement exists to correct the possession of the nation and to be granted to no one permanently. Then perhaps it would be possible to bury that argument permanently in Icelandic politics if the Allied could agree to accept the law that I consider most important, so that the legislatator can make the changes in the resource use that he chooses to do. [[The president calls.]] So I'd like to say that it was a good time when our classes were in the government together, and yet the left movement lost six members of Congress then. I guess we'll have to make all of this up at the end of each terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u20	A respectable president. A recent report by the National Reconnaissance Commission stated that despite legal matters there, policy-makers did not establish non-political media services. It is interesting to look at this because it is also said that this step is unnecessary, since separation in the accounting of the Society should be sufficient to keep these aspects of the operation separate where the law goes beyond the European rules and uncertain whether there is any benefit in the institution of a daughterhood, which could even lead to problems for society. The execution has been delayed twice, last to the year 2018, and now the problem exists is that the deadline is not longer, and the national accountant simply makes plain, pointing out that it is not wise to comply with the law. This is a bit of an interesting problem, since there is actually an extra load on RUSH without a need for it. Then we're choosing to actually mismanage public money when it comes to it. I wanted a minister's opinion of it. Isn't it good to fix this problem, to stop handling public funds, and to explain what needs and doesn't have to be done? Right in the end, huge cases, you might just need a short answer to that question, but it's the case with the press in a private market. There is a problem with the limit to what is volunteer work and what is overtime. If you redirect to Public Reexamination, that it is not wise to obey the law, then there are certain laws on which salary you will receive for your work, etc. There's a natural fight going on that we don't really care much about, but there's a certain problem that definitely needs to be considered, even in here, when there's not a law on pay. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u21	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. It is true that The State Accounting returned a report on the days in which VOLV and, for example, were reviewed. dealt with the granddaughter. It's true that there's supposed to be a law-to-be-a subsidiary and that's not a choice. This is also shown in the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures, published by the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. 21 That failures, which some have attributed to setting up a bloodline, do not feel that Government Accounting is not at hand. Hence, that entry was not to be delayed. I was not impressed with all the prowess that appear to have marked this matter at the time, so I left no doubt that it should be put on a pregnancy. I think it's urgent to put on a daughter's club because I want to increase everything we're doing about the media market. That's why I think it's urgent now and the government has said that they're going to set up the granddaughter and have already begun to do it, and that's very good. Regarding other media issues, it is as if everywhere it is urgent to follow collective agreements. It is not wise to comply with the law and the minister here, of course, in agreement. We must also realize that the media market is changing rapidly, not just in Iceland, but everywhere. Therefore, we need to listen to and take into account changes in the media, focusing on how the media's environment, whether it is public media or personal resources, can compete with others, and therefore needs to be strengthened. That's exactly what they're working on right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u22	A respectable president. The minister says that it is not wise to comply with the law, just as a government reexamination points out. It was the opinion of a representative of the Ministry of Education and Culture in discussions with the Government Accounting that it would be unnecessary to take this step. At least that was a previous opinion, so there's interesting tension. On the other hand, if it is not wise to comply with the law, it is the very law on public finances that is associated with a small discussion recently, where a minister sets out policies for the issues and lawsuits he is responsible for. It should describe the focus and goals, including quality and services targets, arrangements, development, and reforms, as well as how these goals will be met, responsibilities, timing and use of funds. Government policies, as stated in the bill for official financial legislation, should be a formal analysis and assessment of the status of the services and activities of the individual sectors, a decision to follow in order to achieve a set of goals to consider the costs, impact and benefits of each pathway and to provide a plan for the implementation of specific policy measures, to ensure harmonisation and to explain priorities and to define the timelines and cost. [[The president calls.]] Is this done at the press conferences in the budget we agreed on here yesterday?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u23	A respectable president. Yeah, we're doing this. I'd like to include one fine example of how we're handling public funds. When I accept office, like what? A senator knows that the need for teachers is based on skill forecasting in 2032. We're about to get started right away and take some major action with the Icelandic community, the teacher president, the educational field, and install 220 million for the next five years. What has happened since then is that instead of a lack of some 1,500,2300 teachers after ten years, this need has been reduced to 132 teachers, as is the case today. There's no doubt that extra expenses are being made, and we get an accurate measurement of how this will change with our skills. [[The president calls.]] So at least with this party, we certainly are.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u24	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to a new drug song. The bill is written at the Ministry of Health and is built, including the proposals of a panel appointed in 2015 to conduct a full re-evaluation of the medication laws and to provide the bill for new pharmaceuticals. The bill was based on the review made to the Council of 145th, but it did not receive its release. However, the bill presented has made some adjustments from that time. The current law is law No. 93/1994 and have been changed almost 50 times at the time since it was set up. However, since then, the law has never accepted an overall review, and it is now time for various reasons, and especially for them, that much has changed to the planning of administration and pharmaceutical and medical procedures, of course, in general. These include the creation of the non-existent European Medicines Agency, the development of a special health insurance agency, the establishment of a special database and, most notably, the impact of Iceland's Member States on the EEA Convention. There have been some, within and outside the administration, showing that the law needed an overall review. So it was started with an overall review of the law, but the bill presented here is a product of that review. However, it should be possible for us to accept the bill to take on additional work in the topic field as a review and a possible re-version of the number of pharmaceutical regulations is expected. This Regulation divides dozens of countries, and therefore it is assumed that several hours will be taken from the approved date until the law will go into effect. The objective of this bill is to provide sufficient supply of necessary medicinal products with patient safety guidance, with the most efficient distribution of medicinal products based on normal competition. It also aims with the bill to ensure that the quality and safety of medicinal products and pharmaceutical services are provided, to increase the knowledge of medication use, to control excessive use, and to minimise drug costs. Last year, the government's medical expenses were about 20 billion. and therefore, work hard to build a system with practical guidance without compromising the requirements for safety and quality of the medicinal product. Among the key indicators in the bill are the simplicity of pharmaceutical management. It is suggested that the Committee of Medicinal Products be placed in the current picture and that the Agency accepts the role of the Committee. The Agency will then submit to a professional and financial responsibility for the use of medicinal products in public health institutions and the use of new and expensive medicinal products in the health care sector. In this way, land hospitals are expected to be financially responsible for the expenses of authorised medicinal products at all health institutions in the country. The project beyond the nuclear functions is thus being carried out on the basis of the expertise of professionals in a land hospital. The Committee will thus play an important role and give the National Competent Authority information when it comes to the decision to pay the State on authorised medicinal products. It is then suggested that a Drug Administration Committee be formed at the National Institute of Development, which is responsible for the safe and reasonable use of medicines at all clinics and nursing homes. If this is agreed in the same form, it is suggested that two medical committees work for the health system, but according to current legislation, the Committee of the Medicinal Products works in all medical institutions. The bill suggests that healthcare professionals will be obliged to report certain adverse reactions of the medicinal products to the EMA, the veterinarian will require special access to the sale of medicinal products intended for use in animals, advising in general, but it must be forbidden to advertise the prescribing agents and non-authorisation medicinal products in this country. The bill suggests, as in current pharmaceuticals, that the general pay period of the pharmacy should normally be at least two pharmacists working on the removal of the prescriptions and on training and counselling about the proper use and handling of medicines. The bill also obligates marketing authorisation holders to care for the general population in a pharmacological way. Such information can come from various sources and may include the following: in that the pharmacist reviews the dose, adverse reactions and interactions of the individual and provides advice on the choice of a concomitant medicinal product. There may also be instruction to ensure compliance and to make patients more responsible for their own health. It should be noted that the pharmacy is a first and sometimes the only site of administration for individuals within the medical system. It is therefore important that you make sure that you are properly equipped to meet the needs of the public on the information and the product information and the use of the medicinal product. In accordance with this, it is also suggested that the marketing authorisation holder performs the responsibility of the pharmaceutical organisation to assist the marketing authorisation holder or other pharmacists in the process of dispensing the prescription. In the absence of pharmaceutical techniques, the EMA can give the requirements for the use of pharmaceutical techniques in its services. One of the objectives of this bill is to ensure sufficient supply of necessary medicinal products to citizens of the country. However, it is necessary to think of the fact that lack of medication is a global problem. So it is logical and important to mention to this background that with this bill's approval it will not all be resolved. It is a problem that has more than one reason. The lack of medicinal product may be due to the failure of the manufacturing process, to the lack of certain strengths or formulations of the medicinal product, to the increase in demand for a specific medicinal product, or even to the complications of transport. Often this is the case with situations that governments have little or no control over. However, in certain cases the government may respond to an impending medication deficiency, and in the bill it is suggested that the EMA should clearly monitor the availability of medicinal products so that a lack of medicinal products might have a bearing on the patient's safety. In addition, it is suggested in the bill that in the absence of a marketed product, the Marketing Authorisation Holder (EMA) can allow the pharmacist to modify the prescription of the prescribing agent (s) as such authorization is provided according to the CHMP assessment of safety for such changes. It is placed in the Agency to implement such a procedure, but in the case of effective implementation, it may be useful for the Agency to publish a list of medicinal products authorised by the pharmacist and what additional measures may replace them. These measures will reduce the discomfort that patients may experience due to the lack of medicine. It is then requested that a minister be allowed to implement a Regulation to address the lack of medicinal products, including the obligation of the EMA, health care institutions, the administration of the national surgeon and the market for counter-medications to prevent the lack of medicinal products. As mentioned earlier, international drug shortages are increasing, and Iceland is, unfortunately, not a part of this trend. It is considered important to submit this Regulation in case of a rapid management of specific problems related to the lack of medicinal product. It is then suggested that unaccounted authorised medicinal products be used in accordance with the requirements set by the Minister for the granting of the authorised medicinal product on welfare grounds. It is also suggested that a minister be allowed to set the criteria for prognostication and health care evaluations based on the evaluation of new technologies, including medicinal products, in the health care sector. Is this in harmony with a new issued meeting resolution on health policy to 2030? A respectable president. The bill presents a new and extended definition of authorised drugs. Thus, a proportion of the currently classified medicinal products are expected to be hospitalised, i.e. S-labelled medicinal products, meet that definition. Other S-labelled medicinal products are transported into the so-called general pay factor system, where the government's pay factor is step-by-step depending on individual drug expenditures. This is both to simplify the system and to ensure equality of patients within the system, but according to the current system, patients will not respond to S-labelled medicinal products, although these products are often and frequently supplied in their oral pharmacy stores, in the same way as medicinal products falling within the general payment system. However, there is no change in the fact that in-house patients do not respond to the medicinal products administered in a medical facility, according to guidelines 18. the management of health insurance, and the services of patients in daily and walking departments are also unchanged. The bill also suggests that the office of the pharmacist will be canceled. Under the suggestion, there is a view that a minister will make decisions at any given time as to what expertise is needed within the Ministry. At the same time, it is not considered reasonable to legalize the importance of one of the health professions in general. It is then suggested that the monitoring and forced disposal procedures of the Agency be updated and the violations of the regulations of the law. A respectable president. The bill we consider here has a long history of consultation, and it is covered in the bill's report. I thought it was important for the council, and especially so. To help them understand how the Ministry has responded to extraordinary remarks and indications in order to help the Senate work out the situation quickly, the welfare committee is fully informed about comments and responses to them. The Scriptures were published in the judicial hearing of the government twice this year, first February 21, and then May 10. The first 112 envelopes were received, and the second, 29, they were able to take into account any comments received and make changes in the bill letters in accordance with them. The evaluation of the effectiveness of the bill on the state funds has been performed and if unchanged, the law is expected to increase the spending of the state funds by 44 million. K. Basically, it is suggested in the bill that the pharmaceutical management board will be simplified, that professional and financial responsibilities should be agreed with the decision on the use of the cost of the medicinal product, that the Agency's surveillance warrants will be updated and that equal numbers of patients should be guaranteed when it comes to the cost of medication. This is a major bill aimed at ensuring the safety of patients, quality and safety of medicinal products, knowledge of drug use, and the keeping of the State's medical expenses. A respectable president. This is an enormous issue that has a long history, a case with regard to the nation's major and important health interests, a challenge for a community that wants to be in the best order in health care, a case that is concerned with the fact that the cost of medication is increasing from year to year and in virtually every country, a case that should be handled in a good and detailed way. The welfare committee. I expect a good cooperation with the committee, and here I have explained the basics of the bill and allow me to suggest that the bill be followed by 1st. Pointed to why. The welfare committee and the 2nd Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u25	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers are very pleased to present this level directly after the financial debate. This gives people something easy and easy to do. V.E.G. A minister handled the matter well, and of course, there is much work to be done. I've got a petition that's gonna change the National Hospital Drug Administration Committee and I'd like to ask a minister to explain the matter a little bit more. The new staff of the Land Hospital says that the committee is intended to set up and care for the hospital's policies on pharmaceutical matters. I realize that it does not exceed what has been put into law. But then there is a change to the last phase after a long process of the S-labelled medicinal products. It says in 44. to ensure that the Commission is working on the safe and reasonable use of medicines in national hospitals and other public health institutions - I believe that it applies to the state of state - with the aim of ensuring safety in the administration of medicinal products and that together there will be professional and financial responsibilities. The decision to use the medicinal product in official health institutions will then be discussed in more detail. Then I wonder: " What does that mean, e.g. in the case that the Landspians decide not to take any medicine? Is this, then, a decision made for all other health institutions as well? And if, under the director's direction, a medical committee finds that some drug is too costly for the Land Hospital, has thus ruled out all health institutions from using the same drug? Is it that complicated? I wondered about the authority of this committee, especially in view of the fact that it says at the end of 44. that the decisions of the Commission over which the Director of the Hospital is in charge are final at the administrative level and are not charged with Ministers. [[The president calls.]] How does this affect other institutions and decisions regarding service, and where do they focus their resources? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Here we are, in effect, changing this arrangement, as indicated in the question of what. A senator and yes, it is that the decision of a land hospital applies for every institution. There we are talking about, both in order to ensure practicality, more progressive work, and harmony, that specific medical committees work at a Land Hospital for All Health Organizations. However, it is reasonable to believe that a special Committee for Medicinal Products Work at the National Institute of Development, which is responsible for the safe and reasonable use of medicinal products within the medical facility, nursing homes, and habitats. This is especially pointed to in the case of the development center. It is also proper to say the same thing, where it is normal. A senator gives this exact point, that the arrangement proposed in the Senate case is the result of a considerable amount of work, which, of course, was considered to be of interest to the central decisions that should be involved in such rich interests, etc. However, we are talking about very important factors that also affect the equation and that provide patients with access to health care, that there is a clear and beneficial process defined and clearly defined as a decision in a administrative level that would not then be revised as such. Hence, it is important that the result is as clear as this one's point.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u27	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. They explained. It's perfectly clear, like the highest. The minister will admit that this is an extensive case and will no doubt be after much coverage and would be interesting to attend a meeting of the Committee, including the the guests who sent in the envelopes and had opinions about these things. This with financial and professional responsibility: I remember that the Landspians didn't want to make a decision about these drugs because it would be bad to sit down on it, so we've made a lot of calls on this matter, and it might say better than much else how complicated it is. I'd like to ask a little more details about the arrangement of putting down a pharmaceutical company in the present picture and dividing staff and working field on this New Medicinal Product Committee and then at the National Institute of Medicine. Without having a deep knowledge of this, I read this into the payment of a payoff part of the Committee for Medicinal Products, i.e. The contribution of the Agency to the work to which it has so far been linked to the decision of the pay-off procedure will be carried out under the Marketing Authorisation, which will be involved in its dealings with health insurance. But the Agency is monitoring, too, so to some extent, we have a service and monitoring under the same hat, as I understand this. There is an application for prices and payment now at the EMA based on this, and it is the same agency as any case, i.e. if necessary. This is the person who is consulted with a case. So that's where we got these two on the same hand. Is this something that's been discussed? I just want to explain how that came to be the best result.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u28	A respectable president. First, to apply it as a dog. A senator asked about the arrangement, the central role, and the central role of Land Hospital, is this arrangement foreshadowed in Norway and Denmark, so that it is maintained here from the platform. Hv. A senator asks about the proposal presented in the bill that a pharmaceutical commission will be canceled. It is really a reaction to the fact that the pharmaceutical management board has repeatedly been criticized, including a state reexamination. This has helped many to see the importance of being simplified and united by public management. One step towards such simplicity, including to submit the Pharmacovigilance Committee and deliver the project to the EMA. On the other hand, the pharmaceutical regime is a complex entity and often requires more than one administration to make decisions, e.g. A decision to make for payment. The system proposed in the bill is considered to be simple to this administration and to make it more efficient. Then it must be held that administrative committees are bound by the rules of just being well-declared at meetings, and if traditional government is given the same task, it can be assumed that, even if governments need to consult, the decision-making will become more efficient and simpler. Then the question is, Why is it not being held on a Committee of Medicine, and it is actually called a judicial committee? This is one of the subjects that has been on the table. Therefore, it is to say that there is in itself no simplicity of the official pharmaceutical management. Therefore, it is suggested that the decisions made by the EMA are not to be paid as well as the decisions of the trade committee are now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u29	A respectable president. We're discussing a bill for a drug song. On page 18. 56 in this thick brochure, 62,000 k is spoken of as a maximum roof in drug payment. 41,000 pm. for children, young people, senile and disability pensioners. Now, an amazing number of older citizens have contacted me, pointing out that they simply cannot afford to obtain their medication and that they really fear to go to a doctor over the top of having to get involved with being prescribed and that they cannot afford to solve it. Another factor that has developed is that the start of a new drug season falls in the same month on both sides, making the cost possible for Gagitics. Now, at the outset of December, a person showed me that there was a new era for both, and he showed me that their cost would be entirely Gunnian. I'd like to ask a minister, can these people look for anything? Can anything be done for such individuals? Of course, I'm concerned about the person who needs his medication and who doesn't solve it, and what happens then? Will they be damaged because they don't receive their medication and are acceptable in our country to have such a situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u30	A respectable president. This may not be specifically discussed in this bill, but I would like to use this opportunity to thank you. A senator for holding these views to mind here in the General's symposium repeatedly. It is this way in our rich society that there are people who refuse health care because of poverty. They refuse medical visits, and they refuse medication, even making decisions as to whether to release drugs A or B or neither. This we know, this is a fact, and this is a disgrace and is actually a stain on a rich community that the situation is in this way. We have research and assessment that will tell us. We also know that when communities are expected to make personal allowances for health care and medicine more than 15% per year, then, of course, all numbers are calculated, there is a likelihood that there will be social discrimination in access to economic health. That is what the United Nations has to say. That is what the World Health Organization tells us. In Iceland, the pay program is a factor, so we are paying from our own pockets, in general, 17%, sufficiently for health care. Then it's all underneath. This must be changed by setting capitals in particular to reduce the patient's payment. That's what we've started. My goal is to focus primarily on those whom we call sensitive groups. We started by adding funds to large subsidies for the dentists for the elderly and infirm. We made health - care programs free of charge for the elderly and disability at the end of the last few years, and we are going to continue the measures to reduce patient payment, and I will publish its schedule over the next few weeks. There I will remain here so far with the goal that poor people do not have to give up their medical care.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u31	A respectable president. I just want to thank the Minister very much for those answers. I support her whole mind in this fight. Then I'd like to ask her, too, about non-standard drugs, such as, for example. Now that many have used, I understand that there is a very costly operation and that seems to work for many. Is it not the time to practice the pharmaceutical process something unconventional, so that people are not always referred to some drug that in many respects is harmful? I know from my own experience that once you're in 16, 17, 18 pills a day, and then you're taking pills, there's something wrong with the system that's acting like that. I'd also like to know if there's some registration procedure to keep track of people not getting enough drugs to cause them harm. We also need to realize that people can grow old and forget, and then I was told by a person who was cleaning up a medicine cabinet after his parents found a drug running at millions. It had to happen. It seems that there was an amazing pile of drugs that cost a lot of money, these were expensive drugs. It seems like there's no supervision in that context. If we really want to reduce the use of drugs and reduce the cost, we must find a way to monitor them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u32	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Of course, what is primarily discussed in this bill is the drugs that have passed a complicated test and test procedure and are considered to be a useful method for dealing with disease or accidents. It is also very important in such a study procedure to examine not only the activity of the individual compound but also the adverse reactions of the respective materials as energy may be disproportionate, not to be fixed, putting material on markets where it is not known exactly what the adverse reactions of the respective materials may have. We can see this in countries where order is more important in this regard as individuals and as well as individuals who are sick with consequences that they themselves face. Hv. The senator specifically asks about the situation when it comes to a pharmacy full of medicines that are not even used, etc. The bill specifically discusses and makes sure that doctors should contribute to the prescribed use of medicinal products. However, it is also particularly relevant in the bill and is of great importance and in the memory of a health - care professional to stress the knowledge of health - care pharmacists, whether we are talking about in the clinic or elsewhere, that they have a larger role in the pharmacy and that they have more important roles at all levels of health care. Once we have pharmacists inside the medical clinic, they may be able to review the prescribed medication and evaluate with the patient if there is any reason to stop there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u33	A respectable president. We are discussing a medical bill, which is the best case, but unfortunately, it is often the simplest advice we have to prescribe for various conditions. Sadly, too much medicine is often given, and we know it. It burns when people are given too much painkillers, and people are kept down on pain medication while waiting for action. It's a terrible situation, isn't it? We are playing with many lives. The marketing market is expanding, the cost of great growth, and this is often a question of simplicity because I think we also need to start thinking things differently in this context. We also need to try to find simple ways to treat a job without having an expensive drug that can cause the person to depend on it. No one knows in advance what medicine he can tolerate and how sick he is for fighting the addictions that drugs can cause. This system seems to be missing a new route. We expand the medication line and often try to cure medication when other options might be much simpler. It should be in a Regulation and it should be self-denial for people to get automatically, e.g. senior citizens, invalids, low-payers, exercise card. Medicines are often given for pain that would have been very easy to prevent. I can take a simple example of myself, just going to hot and cold baths on time has been a good thing for me that I've reduced the use of analgesics by 80 to 90%. Such a simple thing tells us that we often prescribe drugs needles. Another thing that I hope to change is that you can no longer walk between doctors and be prescribed the same medicines for many doctors, it will be a basis for you to know when you get too much medicine. When people come up with less than 20 tablets a day and have to take pills for their side effects just because they don't get hospital surgery because of a waiting list or else, we're biting in a little bit badly in order to get rid of the crown and save the money. I'm not gonna keep this coverage longer. I'll be keeping a close eye on the welfare committee, but something has to be done on these matters. This drug industry is spreading too much. Then there are others who deny drugs because they cannot afford them. We have discovered that people are in a debt soup because they are trying to cure cancer. Cancer drugs are expensive, and people not only struggle with health and life but also deal with economic and other things that are not meant to occur. We also need to realize that when medication is necessary, we should make sure that people receive it and they do not have to choose between the amount of money and the amount of medication they have to buy. It's amazing that the situation is this way in our society.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u34	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. A health minister for her history in this case and for putting up this matter. It's like the highest. A minister mentioned in his talk was long since a complete review of the medications was completed. The profits that are underneath are enormous, and the focus is very important to all of us. It is not only our community interest but also the interests of the individuals underneath, our businesses, our manufacturers, etc. It seems obvious to me to review the bill and take a look at the work that is behind the fact that there was a good job here, and it's time to commend the Ministry. Minister for that job. Clearly, this is a very extensive work. There are several factors, the nature of the matter, which may need just a thought to look into the work of the committee further. I will review the leadings I've run into with my passage. It's right to say that the factors I'm involved in are basically moves, cuts, speculations, because the overall score on this bill is at least I like it very much. I will try to review this in a series of articles in order that if they are interested, they will find it easy to observe. Thirty-two. is referred to as medicated feed. This is shown in the report by the bill that much of the regulations there, i.e., have not been changed. administration in feed. I wondered only if it was not in the spirit of the discussion that has been conducted, not only in Iceland, but in many parts of the world, about the use of animal treatments - and I'm not saying the use of animal treatments for disease, but as a preventive measure of disease or some combination of food - maybe it doesn't have to be more specific to it than it says. It's a state-of-the-art authority in there, but I'm wondering if at least... some of the measures in the Regulation would not be better off in the medication text. Thirty-four. It is called a prescription and IX. This section involves sale and dressings. It is, in fact, there. spoke of conditions that must be taken for pharmacists to get employment permit as a drug dealer. Only the current law can be said to be enlarged. In current law, three years' work experience is needed, if I remember correctly, but it's basically a two-year job experience. There is a change. It may be quite acceptable, but it is a job and business that requires a lot of expertise and experience, and a person who is to be responsible for dispensing medication from a pharmacy may have to be more strict conditions and stricter rules than that stated. Now, I don't know that well enough, Mr. President, whether it's under some kind of consistent European rules, but the committee will not be able to cover it at all. 43rd. is referred to as operating by a pharmacy in a medical facility. Only the problem that exists in many parts of Iceland, i.e. the fact that communities are small, there is not even a premium for running a pharmaceutical store. Your community is small and even. a view of profit makes it impossible for a person to run a small drug farm, even if they have a pharmacy in another bigger community or community. This is a matter of great importance to me, and really comes into question as long as possible. Congress officials are familiar with recent reports from the Hall where they were wondering if the use of retail drugs in public stores should be increasing. This could be some kind of version of what I know might be at least A better solution than the one I mentioned earlier. 52nd. is referred to as the metabolic nature of medicinal products. It refers to sources that actually exist to prescribe concomitantly, even if they have a different drug name on a medication check. I wondered if there would have been any reason to have some kind of separation of a redundant to the person who writes or prescribes the product. Of course, it's the law that could have been in the past, but now we're going to an overall review. Then I wondered, " Might it not be flat simply to install some kind of reimbursement directive to the prescriber when giving another medication to the patient? ' I speak from some experience after having received very many phone calls from patients with questions about medicines delivered but who have not been the drugs mentioned in an interview with the person. It may be important to know about these changes. XIII. The chapter may be the largest change from the current standard, the chapter on advertising, which covers the principle in Iceland that drug advertisements are not authorized. So it is now being said that the basic principle is that drug advertisements are allowed and that there is, in effect, a much less restricted authority than a rule from the ban. I'm not going to judge for myself whether the system is better, but at least I think it's better. need to think it very carefully, and the committee will no doubt do so, whether or not it is opening a window larger than we realize, and whether we should wonder whether we should keep that window slightly narrower than it is today. XIII. Chapters are what I can best see about drug advertisements back and forth, but it is not the only kind of drug ads that are very common, except in such a lot more than that, forgive the Danish trash, Mr. President. This is when drug administration is by nature advert, performed at either the institution or the healthcare professional's clinic. Of course, I realize that the rules of the law on advertising are natural, but often you can play or work with the definitions of advertising and what is not, and so you can cut past the rules of the law. I wondered, " Is this really a reason to take better care of it? ' At 63rd. is referred to as side effects, and in paragraph 1 it speaks of the obligation to report side effects. I completely agree that this is important, and we're supposed to record it. On the other hand, it has to be assumed that this will ultimately involve several health costs and medical institutions. Each healthcare professional may perform many side effects each day. It is often an interpretation of the serious side effect or new side effect, especially when dealing with patients taking multiple medicinal products or many types of medicinal products or with multiple drug classes, this will be even more common. It is obviously important that the notification is present, but this may mean that it will only be available. Of course, you can do many of these electronics today, but even the electronic documents that are present at the Institute of Medicine are now, I don't allow myself to say, be especially convenient or easy to use. It takes time to fill them out. It's just that way. In XV. section refers to price of medicinal products. I wondered if there should have been some kind of divorce over the use of drugs, not just the price. Other than that, I like this chapter. 79th. magazines are then discussed with him the pharmaceutical database and the care of healthcare professionals, and I am very happy that health care professionals other than doctors can examine the foundation. However, I wondered, " Should men have access to the foundation? ' It doesn't necessarily make up any of the health professionals under there or all the partners in these classes at all times to have access to the foundation, and I wondered if there should be some kind of posetile access application. Then there is the other thing, that the foundation should be five years back. Often, this is not enough. Sometimes you need information much further back in time, and it's not complicated to have some kind of sidebar puzzle. Of course, it takes money, fussing, and all of this, but having some static information stored somewhere, and accessible is not too difficult, but it can really matter. So I wondered, " Should I keep this law a little wider? ' I'm celebrating the arrangement at 44. and 45th par. about the Committees. However, I wondered if there was a review in the Ministry that they should be more objective than the one mentioned in this article, perhaps even being nonemployed. Those under there would not necessarily be staff of the Land Hospital or health care staff or anything like that or at least By some means, they would be designed to be independent from the administration of the institutions, since this is likely to be of great importance to consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u35	A respectable president. As mentioned in my background, this is a big, big case, and I expect it to happen. For example, a health - care committee allows time to get into it. I would specifically direct members of the discussion phase, as mentioned earlier. He covers everything from page 43 to page 52, which I think may be considered an unusually more unusual consultation but is designed to speed up the work of the committee. I'm especially pointing it out. Thank you. paritaprevir For an especially detailed and extensive speech, Þór Gunnarsson's Ólafur had to deal with quite a number of opinions. Many practical suggestions were made in his speech, since the senator knows matters from his own experience. I'd like to give a special point of the question, please. A candidate on advertisements, re-administration to doctors, was required to report adverse events and the extramarital details necessary for drug dating and their status, access to the pharmaceutical database, and the way it is all thought. I'm counting on it. To those opinions and speculations, a welfare committee does well. I know it's not appropriate for the Minister to make such a statement that I think it's appropriate to do with this discussion, but I believe there's an unusually successful bill. For a long time, there have been tremendously powerful experts who have listened in an upbuilding way to questions, opinions, and comments. We have responded to comments with the view that this time the matter will end. It is very important that the legal structure of the drug trade in Iceland be in line with today's. That's the step we're taking with this bill. I look forward to cooperating with what. ...and hope that this important bill will be legal in this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u36	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to correct traffic laws, No. 77/209. New traffic laws will take effect on January 1, 2020, and the environment and transport committee will deliver this change in the law. When new traffic licenses were started, including There was a technical problem. There are many laws on the road, and this is a huge fire. Not only do we need to consider what we can do and what not to do but we also need to do it as well. There are some connections that need to be corrected, and that is why they move rough. The Environment and Transport Committee is the bill I recommend here now. The bill suggests changes in the new traffic laws adopted at 149th legislature and set into effect for year - to - year sessions. Reference is made to a specific penalty for fines, based on 94 st. The law, but it lacks exactly what I said before references to criminal offenses. There is also another reference to the effects of drunk driving, where we made changes without having to drive with alcohol in the blood from 0.5◯ to 0.2◯. It is forbidden by traffic laws, but it has to be removed from the trajectory. So, as I said earlier, there were some references on the move of the cargo and about the width, length, and height of vehicles that had failed to find their way into the repair section that needs to be added. There was a lack of reference in duty to comply with road patrol instructions and road control information requirements. These are road inspectors who are aided by the police. Of course, they are not changing the arrangement today, but they can include so - called road inspectors who need this warrant and are being added. The driver's license is also being changed. It was put in a walking room, which is in the hands of the politicians and the sheriff of the capital area, as the situation is today. There was no intention of changing that arrangement. Although this was the case, the Commission and the police were expected to continue this, but it is better to discuss only those who publish this license rather than mention a CA, and this is therefore replaced by a change in it. Other than that, I'm just going to refer to the bill and the report by it and not to discuss it further. As I say, these are corrections, not material adjustments, from what was planned for the newly released traffic laws, and I rejoice that they will soon take effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u37	A respectable president. I recommend to the Committee on Environment and Transport with a motion-changing proposal for the Constitution of the Independent Assessment of the Land-Elantic. The committee discussed the matter and received reviews about it, but the reviews given to the Commission generally expressed great satisfaction and stressed the need to make an independent assessment of the dock so that necessary action could be taken in order to secure health in the land. It was pointed out that it was important that the assessment not be confined to the depths of the land - island crew. The experience that had come from the sailing of a new Marine in the Landing Islands would have to be considered to see what other factors, such as the interaction of wind and seawater, could limit the use of the harbor. As a result, there was a need to make adjustments. The Commission agrees with these views and emphasizes that all factors that could influence the use of the harbor in the preparation of the assessment will be considered. At the same time, it was noted that considering the scope of the project, the time limit for the analysis was unrealistic, i.e. that it would be completed only on March 31, 2020. So the committee suggests a change in the suggestion that the assessment will be completed no later than 31 August 2020. So the committee suggests that the proposal will be accepted by the change that will be March 31st. I thank the Committee for her cooperation and sole concern of this important proposal. As we know, the coast is a basis for safe and safe transportation to the Western Islands, and it is important that a new ship, a new host, can sail there all year round. Therefore, it is extremely important to be taken into this independent assessment to take out the overall picture of how the dock works and what changes you might make on the dock. What was waiting was to see how a custom ship would be used for this harbor and what it would change. Therefore, it is important to take into account the information that has been added after the new ship began sailing, as it has been entered this committee and published in the Senate resolutions. If you succeed, hopefully you'll be able to make even better transportation to the Western Islands. Although I would like to mention here, of course the international flight and flight there are very important ones. Neither replaces the other, so these two methods are called the lifeline of the Western Islands. Under the committee, all the committees are signed and signed, including the one listed here, Vilhjálmur Árnason, and then Bergþór Ólason, chairman of the Committee, Trausti Trusty Guðmundsson, Brjánsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Bogi Hafliðason, Jón Gunnarsson, Karl Gauti Hjaltason and Kolbeinn Otarsson Proppé. Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, an officer of the committee, agrees with this. I suggest that this synopsis proposal be adopted with the motion we propose here, and I hope that the road process that receives this project will go straight to work. She expressed satisfaction with the matter. I also want to see that this is being discussed in a committee study of more parts of the new EU transport process, so there is nothing more to wait than to get on the job to improve transport, since all transport benefits contribute to the well - being and economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u38	Mr. President. I'm going to review the committee opinion of more of the General and Education Committee. The committee has discussed the matter and has contacted Páll Þórhallsson and Ágúst Geir Ágústsson of the Ministry of Presidency, Arnar Stefánsson's Viðar, Júlíusson's Þór, Páll Rúnar Mikael Kristjánsson, attorney to Rúnar son of Leifsson, Oddgeir Einarsson, attorney to Sævar Ciesielskir, Aðalsteinsson, Attorney of Skarphéðinsson, Andri's Árnason of Affon, appointed state law, Leópoldsson and Valdimar Olsenur. The committee received reviews from Arnar Þór Stefánsson, the Hafþór of Sævarsson Ciesielski, Páll Rúnar Mikael Kristjánsson, and Ragnar The Aðalsteinsson, and a joint report from Magnús Leópoldsson's Einar, chief Gunnar Bollason, and Valdimar Olsenur. This is a bill that has a legal right to pay the court's court case in case no. 521/2017 in which Kristján Yulsson, Sævar Marinó Ciesielski, and Tryggvi Rúnar Leifsson were acquitted of killing the Guðmundur Einarsson in January 1974, Albert Klahn Skaftason of the investigation of the offense, and Guðjón Skarphéðinsson's son, Kristján Viðar and Sævar Marinó because he had killed Geirfinnur Einarsson in November 1974. The main purpose of bill donation is to promote reconciliation on the basis of the above issues in which the government's terms following the Supreme Court's decision have failed and one party appealed to the local court. It is suggested that a minister be authorized to repay a party unless they judge their right to have a court order. Furthermore, the surviving mates and children of the fallen parties are suggested to be able to accept compensation. The majority of the committee's comments have emphasized that it is not her job to discuss the judicial matters but that it is merely to take a stand on the subject and evaluate the subject of the bill. The rest of the section was about the uniqueness of the case, both in size and in content, and it is hard to see that similar issues can arise again. In support of this, the greater part points to the social change that has taken place in the past few decades to provide extra emphasis on human rights, including the legal rights of the defendants. The Committee gave the opinion that by giving the bill, it was contrary to the triunement of the government, into the field of judicial action. The greater part shows that the right of individuals to plead their case under the courts is clearly defined in the constitution, and with the bill, there is no way that the right of individuals should be reduced to comply with their demands for judgment. Since the bill is only authorized to pay compensation, it is clear that the subject of the bill is primarily in favor of the party of the matter. The majority stress that if the bill is approved, members still have the right to plead their case under the courts for further relief. In view of the above and the particular situation, the greater part feels that it is necessary and reasonable to leave no doubt that the government's will is in order to handle matters and that their citizens will make reasonable improvements. For a discussion of the bill, there was a view of 2 mg. 1st par. it is important to make sure that any compensation to a surviving mate and children should be paid. The majority agree with the viewpoint and points out that the improvements proposed in the bill are subject to individuality and that this right must be spoken of with a doubt as to the rights of a surviving mate and of children were in court on authority to make compensations for the dead. It is important to note that the improvements proposed in the bill can also be done by caregivers in order to maintain equality between parties. In the treatment of the case, there were various viewpoints on the criteria to guide the decision of the money improvement. The majority of the data shows that this is neither standard improvements nor a decision to improve, in connection with a paper project with the bill. The majority count, especially in view of the fact that the bill does not present the limitations of the individual's rights to carry its demands under the courts, that this is not part of the role of the Committee on the issues laid out in the decision of the sum. The majority stress that the treatment that people had to endure because of the cases is not going to be completely compensated but their payment is part of the government's recognition of the injustices brought upon them by people and the effects of the misdemeanor. The majority feel that the subject of the bill can be paid to make peace, to the extent possible, because of the issues discussed here and the effects they have had on the issues involved. In this way, the majority stress that the subject of the bill is clearly marked and only take to heart the factors needed because of the exceptions it makes to the general law code. The majority feel that if the bill is accepted, it involves confirmation of government will to make peace. This is what you're gonna sign. Councilmen Páll Magnússon, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Birgir Aargian Ármannsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Bogi Hafliðason Jón Valdimarsson, Guðmundur and Andri Thorsson, and May Hrafn Gunnarsson sign this opinion with the presuming that government treatment in the process of reconciliation, in particular the development of a paper-published government attorney, as a protection in the government's penalties against the state, has not been intended to pay for a successful resolution and to achieve reconciliation. A respectable president. As indicated by this opinion, most of the General and Education Committee is the purpose of the bill's contribution to an agreement. Participants even ran out of stock. so that the members were not willing to compromise their right to bear their demands under the courts. The bill, on the other hand, makes clear that compensation is permitted, but people can still continue their case if they choose to test better rights. It is reasonable that the lawgiver will come to authorize such a procedure, for it is a variation from the custom of a state lawyer to reconciliation with reforms. The source turns to the fact that a minister can offer an acceptable case on a reasonable basis. The daughters differ from legal reform based on criminal law. They are thought - provoking as part of government recognition of the wrongs caused by people. The source creates a basis for subsidies without the need for all members to consult courts or to await their conclusions, since each case must be carefully examined by the law of law. The majority of the shares do not appear to be particularly relevant, but they refer to the amount and exchange between the parties in their report and the bill. The major part doesn't make comments to that approach, because, as previously said, people can test their rights in the courts, so they choose. In this regard, the matter of reasonableness must be considered first, looking forward to the particular and seriousness of the matter. Ministers are not expected to sit in court, but improvements are based on a greater general basis of reasonableness and willingness to make peace. It is also necessary in the opinion of the greater part to ensure this relationship between parties. It is guaranteed that the families of the fallen have the same rights that the righteous one had enjoyed if he was alive. It is in the spirit of a reasonable approach that is behind them, and their memory is treated with respect. A respectable president. I suggest this case be agreed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u39	V.E.G. President. I'm here to recommend the minority of the General and Education Committee. The minority believes that the subject of the bill will go against the Constitutional trident of the state where the legislature powers pass by it into the field of the judiciary. The smaller part cannot agree that this is the appropriate legislation for repairs. Despite the unique position of the case, it is a case that the Supreme Court has already discussed and led to an acquitted party on certain grounds. It is better, then, that the courts will determine the benefits and according to the experiences of the money improvement in the case as normal. If the bill is accepted, the lesser part feels that there will be a pattern that could have a dangerous effect on other cases in which individuals are unjustly deprived or falsely condemned. Then there are the compensations laid down in the bill and their budgets, according to an inconsistencies with what has been known in the past. In view of what I've said here, the smaller part cannot be brief enough for the bill to succeed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u40	Mr. President. I'd like to thank you very much. Minister for coming down here and talking to me about property fees. In the United States, taxes have been given since the tenth law was passed to the General Assembly in 1096. Since then, land has been valued and taxed. Today, real estate costs are important to rural society, but this tax system has been critical of its failures. It is possible to agree, a real - estate assessment includes both the value of the buildings in the country and the weight assessment. As far as I'm concerned, the currency should be the lawn or the aquifers alone. It's because it's the land itself that makes the chute. Economics have noted that it is far more efficient to tax the country itself rather than the buildings in the country because such tax returns do not affect the offer on land. It's stuck. The current system takes on most of the investment in which land owner attacks, i.e. on the buildings. A great advantage could be to tax areas directly from areas where they are motivated to build tightly rather than distribute them. There is also an unequivocal advantage that money is being taxed off the land rather than on investments. One property is more valuable than another because of its location, as we know, because the community has invested in the interiors of the neighborhood. For example, I think we can agree that if the population's weight prices go up because the city's state and city attack the structure. It's the tax foundation that's supposed to be taxing, not investment in apartment or employment. It is a trace of this kind that leads to inequities and is not practical for communities, especially if property builds up in few hands. Successful reforming of this system would lead to greater social well - being, and this also seems to be in agreement with economists. The effects, how the stocks would change and so on, have to be clearly determined in an analysis. I believe by a more reasonable process, the stocks would be divided equal, but it's interesting to look at the history of the income.is. It shows how much more taxes are paid for less money than income costs, compared with 2017, pay the lowest income of 16,000 dollars. a month on real estate fees with 400,000 dollars. in the industry, but the top income tenant with six times higher income pays $24,000. per month. The problem is that data on global purchase and sale are not recorded in the official databases and therefore the market price on the ground cannot be calculated in the same way as cut-offs are calculated. This needs to be improved and we have proposed a matter of Congress on that subject. The present system is incomplete, as the news show recently showed. It seems that it is difficult to find out who are the real owners of the earth. Lands purchased for hundreds of millions are evaluated for several hundred thousand in real estate. One party now has about one 1.5% of Iceland. I think it's important to put restrictions on a funeral, but then I also think it's necessary that there's economic motivations against meaningless geothermal accumulation, as it seems. It's happening in my district. I think that by improving data collection and counting market prices on the ground, we might also consider creating economic incentives against gathering farms. Into this market would be e.g. Counting the value of salmon fishing. This would be done to allow rural society to place lower land expenditures that would be defined as agrienvironment schemes but where no agriculture takes place. Thus a financial motivation would be to gather and remove earth from its midst. A respectable president. It will be interesting to hear what the secretary of transportation and the local government thinks of this idea because this is also related to the discussion we've had here. We're waiting for the bill on the sale on Earth, and I think it could be one of the big motivations that can help to control the conditions we've seen, unfortunately, for way too long now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u41	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for asking for a special discussion on farm property and tax incentives to keep the ground in apartments. I will try to answer if the taxation of real estate and housing can be changed in a way that will result in an estimated price to be the antiquated value of the tax instead of the building's real estate assessment. Hv. A senator asks, " What are the advantages and problems of setting up such an arrangement? ' It is also asked whether the taxation of agricultural land could be changed and the taxation of rural areas can be given to rural populations to stress a larger percentage on earth organized as agrienvironment schemes than to no functions. It is proper to assume at the beginning that Iceland's National Registry will have the head of real estate registrations under the law and the management of a data and information system called a real estate file. All real estates in this country are recorded. The core of the registry is information on land and land and their decomposition. This information, in turn, involves man - made works, and it gives them the right. A real estate file is the basis of the Constitution books of real estate, valuation of real estate, and houses of national files, providing them as tools for international information systems. It also preserves recorded logistic changes. Each property should be considered as much as it can be achieved at any given time, and more detailed in the law on registration and assessment of real estate. The section of the real estate file that takes up workers in this country, i.e. the manpower file, it's very good. It has been proposed that workers should be recruited from the current calculation system to the use of real estate assessments some 50 years ago. This is the assessment of those who know that this document is even one of the best things happening worldwide. However, the same cannot be said of the other section of the real estate file, which includes countries and lands or landreals. There is a substantial lack of adequate landmarkage. In fact, the source of the Index is from Land Mine and has been marked with particles, but it has not been drawn up on maps as it is done in many foreign lands, although it has been started in several places and has been done for a considerable period of time. Thus, the real estate system available to the population today takes little account of the magnitude or quality of it. It is rather regarded as done, as we have seen, and the use of the land. Thus, it is possible that two real estates on such larger areas that stand side by side and have the same innovation rate that may have a very different real value depending on the new property and the condition of the workers. It should be noted, however, that valuable weights and Iceland's National Publications Index have been developed to provide detailed information on parts of these areas. At the turn of the century, maps and nationalities under the leadership of the Ministry of Presidency were also started. Work on that project has been delayed, but it is estimated that it will be completed in 2025, and it is important to ensure sufficient resources as well as to continue to map the whole country. In order to make it possible for property expenditure to take on the current budget, a great effort must be taken in the upcoming land area, which would also be based on the legal structure behind which it resides. I have had a conversation with the head of Iceland's National Publications Index who have declared that the Agency is prepared to submit proposals for legal adjustments that must be made to improve land registration and Iceland's national registry have also considered the changes to the methods of real estate evaluations that reflect the greater impact of improved registrations, such as land and land property. As regards the benefits and defects of this arrangement, it is clear that if the current building system was to be replaced by a new system based solely on subsidies on land and land, a major change would be needed. According to the Treaty on rural income companies, the stress base is on all property, 0.5% tax rate, in apartments and housings, along with property rights, genetic estates, land estates, houses, constructions, soils, stables, all farms and summers, so countries and areas are part of the present system, but their share of assessment is weaker, as previously designed. This is certainly an interesting idea, but it would put much tension in a real estate market, and the inhabitants of the rural community would experience great payoffs as well as remunerations, with information on delinquency, size and share being generally limited. Must say that the prerequisite for recording this system today is not available. I stress that it needs and may add to the existing real estate logistics and that it will be considered better by the country, especially in the light of what may be. A senator entered into the changes we have been seeing in purchases and sales, as well as in ground accumulation, with a clear translation and a overview of that image. However, for this to happen, land registration and its separation in a possession file will have to be reinforced, as without a further registration, little or no progress on the value of land property will be observed. Of course, such work and adjustment would have to be done by means of law. Iceland's union, but the real estate tax is an important source of income, as it were. A senator came in. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u42	Mr. President. In the beginning, I want to thank the advocate of this discussion, for it is very important to revise income-created communities. The central category makes a great effort to review the pressures of real estate taxes, which increase weight on people and businesses in the country. Change in the design of property taxes is more likely to take into account the area in question than the building involved is something to be considered when the methods and pressures of real estate taxes would be addressed to a more efficient review, which I believe are necessary. Mr. President. In fact, real estate taxes have risen beyond the general value in the country over the past few years. Real estate taxes here, except for about 2% of land production, while the proportion is 1% in Sweden that has not been considered to be a tax paradise. In Reykjavík property taxes have increased more than 60% in the last four years, and similar reports have been made in many other rural areas. The increase is so true that even though some rural society has reduced the pressure of the percent real estate bills, they are actually raising year after year, and these taxes are destroying a number of sensitive companies. We in the Central Party have talked about reducing the State Department and offering suggestions on the budget. This is also true of another government. I mean, I'm involved in rural society, but in recent years, the community administration system has swelled so much that they feel they can't reduce these taxes and thus constantly take more of it from business to public. No, Mr. President, an uncontrolled and uncontrolled rise in property taxes is required.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u43	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. The material is not new, and I will stay in the areas where farmers and citizens live in this brief discussion. For years we've been discussing the use of the land and farms, property and definitions, provisional rights, taxation and general farming practices in this country. Of course, it is closely related to this discussion of all the activities of farmers, this honorable food manufacturer, whom most of us, the common people in the country, have looked up to and respected throughout the ages, this class, by which all the current governments in their own way, together and separately, have wept, so that the class that has so advanced. They have done this with a variety of chefs of seas, commerce, lax vision, out - of - date market work, and a busy, windy standard. Over the years, as soldiers, we have been shocked to be special farmers, but that is wrong. I suppose we are when loyalty and the best spokesmen in prayer and new habitats and those who believe in the possibility of new distributions. In order for the countryside to live and bloom, there will be a transformation, not a Band-Aid, and not a small-dose cure as it seems to be still here and again. We need to deal with searching questions. They've been attacking us for years. Who owns Iceland? Who can own Iceland? Who Can Buy Earth? Is it all possible and doesn't need a commitment? Are foreigners inferior to Icelandic merchants? Do they care for the land any worse? These issues have been repeated in the program of the General Assembly for many years, but is it by chance that the council is trying to deal with these matters, as the neighbors have done? If we do not, the penance will continue and the fragility and scandal in the media as well as the earth will continue to buy and sell among the Icelandic and foreign rich, like any other piece of song. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u44	Mr. President. I'm gonna start by thanking the highest. Minister how he handles the case. I'll be a little calmer. We can talk about some tax-infested farm arrangements, but I would have chosen that we were approaching the case from how we can arrange taxes on farms to strengthen residences all over the country, not as I think it would be, to be opening up the possibility of further expansion of farms and other soils in Iceland. It's not the right approach. The correct approach is to ask ourselves: " How can we lighten up and expand our residence in Iceland? It's, for example. Slowly agree with what you're doing. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson and several other members of the Independence Party and the Multitude who want to make generation change easier when it comes to farms and, in fact, all industry, i.e. a little business, so-called family companies. There's a bill at the council, and I challenge the Senate to come together. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson and his associates, and they provide a bill and enable young people to take over their parents'farms or take over the small company that parents have built up through decades. It's a methodology that I like, not an idea of in some way, of promoting greater income from the country, especially when it comes to farmers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u45	A respectable president. I want to say something as one says at some meetings, that I have come to listen. I have to admit that I haven't really wondered about this development exactly, about taking property bills from land rather than buildings as well as buildings. A senator mentioned earlier. However, in general, I feel that it has to be based on the most accurate data. If data exist to be inaccurate or false, there is absolutely every reason to linger at least. I would also be concerned about the problems most. Minister mentioned in his reply. However, I often wondered about this discussion regarding land ownership. I feel like she's going a little too fast sometimes. I often feel that people start to talk about their conclusions and opinions before they have any argument or explain exactly what concerns people, especially when it is time for foreigners to buy land. Then, for some reason, many will be terrified. I can well understand the will to have limitations on how much land a person can have. But we can't fall into the trap of holding that selling some land or buying a country has stopped Iceland's jurisdiction. It's still Iceland, whether it's an Icelander or a foreigner who owns the country. Someone owns the land. I say for myself, I don't automatically feel more friends of landowners who have Icelandic passports than landowners who have foreign passports. I don't think that's relevant. It is an emotional matter that often leads people to conclusions before they have reasoned. Even when we talk about the limitations of land and the like, we also need to explain in advance exactly what goals we are trying to achieve. Is it just to ease some feeling of discomfort? That's not a good argument. Is this to promote equations? There's evidence, but then it also has to be said out loud, not just right away, but what people worry about and why they want to solve problems, if they're there, by what they suggest. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u46	Mr. President. I think it's long time for us to take a more comprehensive look at the discussion of the earth than is often done here. It may be the first question: Is the use of soiling the land's purchases and sales a concern whether the person buying land is domestic or foreign? Has it not been rather a problem for agriculture over the years that it has been difficult to get the world's worth? Suddenly, there are more opportunities to do so because, not just in the past few years, but decades, because of the growth of agriculture, there has been a gradual decline in the number of farms, such as in many other branches. It is not unnatural in these developments and, in fact, very important for agriculture such as other sectores to develop in a way that allows for management and competitiveness, e.g. The path to the program "smb4k_umount" I think we have to be careful of what I find so often wrong with today's agricultural support system: Are we really supportive of farmers? Are we supporting farms, some of which belong to farmers and others not? Should we not give support to the prayers themselves and to the prepared ones on earth? Then you ask yourself: " Is it normal to go into taxing changes like this, since the application should vary depending on whether land is in apartment or not? Is that a matter of equal opinion? Is it possible for us to discriminate against industry in this way or to bury owners according to local farming practices or e.g. Tourism service? Is that a natural approach to global taxation? I don't think so. Of course, we must approach that focal point. It is long time for us to take this whole conversation together, and that we really approach the problem of agriculture in Iceland and how we direct support for farming equipment, while it will also benefit consumers in this country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u47	A respectable president. We're discussing who owns farms and property bills. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for this discussion and Minister for participating in it. Real estate expenditures have gone completely out of control over the past few years and are beginning to suffer very severe and ill on those who are most commercial, especially those who are in disability. But we must be careful not to go into burdening our farmers with an increase in real estate. As we have seen, there are always more and more land being destroyed, and then we know that there are always more and more land to be owned by foreign people. In fact, what's interesting about this is that even business has a lot of soil. What's even more surprising is that these are companies that may be registered in the EEA country, but no one knows in itself whether they're members of the EEA that own the Earth. At times, it may seem that there is no way to identify who are the real owners. I'd think it was the most serious thing in the case, that upstairs is a system that allows us to get some money -- I just say for me that we should take e.g. Dani, we are exemplary. There people buy land only if they live on it. Humans too need to produce something on it, and they have already lived for years before they get to buy the earth, and it does not matter whether it is a foreigner or a native. He needs to have a social security number and live.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u48	A respectable president. We're all familiar with the Monopoly board game, the real-estate game. Many families play it at Christmas, while other families avoid it as if it were a hot fire. To mention, for example. A popular story about Queen Elísabet of Englandsdrottning forbidding the royal family to play the controversial card because it always got out of the way when this fine family met and began to compete in real estate. It was the Queen's names, Elizabeth Magie, who invented this controversial board game at the beginning of the 20th century and did so to demonstrate the inequities of society. The game followed two lines of rules, one on the other, of practicality, where each player gained a profit when some player turned property into one. According to those rules, all players won. The other rules we know well, the usual rules of the Monopoly game, where the winner can make all the rest bankrupt. In place of real estate fees, we'll make sure that we play by Elizabethar Magie's righteous rules. Instead of paying taxes on the property food he built at the hotel he pays taxes on the value of the property, which is more just and more practical from an economic point of view. Investments that build a hotel as expensive as in the Puckett pay today similar fees of property, the value of the property of the Calculus that creates the value of the value. It is valuable because society has invested around the location of the Harp in transport, etc. By using the righteous rule from the Monopoly game, society will heal everything. There will be taxation on the surface instead of taxation on an investment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u49	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For this discussion, Olsen Gunnarsdóttir arrived at the Kingdom Hall of Jehovah's Witnesses. I am especially happy that we are dealing with this case here, which is related to the proposal for action in the land that I proposed earlier in the fall along with the Council of Congress. Taxative incentives to keep the earth in an apartment or to use it relate to two measures in the proposal, i.e. on taxation and land registration. It says that the incentive to use possessions in rural areas could be induced with lower costs for possessions new than those destroyed. The premise that these routes can be considered in a practical way is improved land ownership and improved real estate assessments in rural areas such as the highest. The minister came in earlier. Here, however, is the idea of property spending, but there is one approach to these actions that I think in view of today's conference conversation that we should take a closer look at. Inflation costs are to calculate land rents based on the scope and opportunities offered by the country rather than on real estate assessments, where the market value of buildings or agricultural reforms is assessed. Today, the minimum paid by the country pays less than the other member of the country and maintains a business that promotes communities. The same is true of rural services, they work the same way. Therefore, I would like to stress that there will be a lot of work to be done on the preparation of land ownership and prices which is essential for further consideration on this route. It will also be able to resolve other issues, e.g. where land divides, such as where owners have even woke up from not having one of the houses they have built on land in their exclusive partnerships. [[The president calls.]] I would also like to agree with what has been introduced by many, the importance of a complete approach to that matter. Inspection of this pathway is a complete approach.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u50	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. An apocalyptic linked important issues, restrictions on the sale of foreigners, and real estate taxes. Whether it has been intended to do so, she was able to prove that the government is rather deaf to the eyes, when it comes to both. There's a lot of talk, but there's waiting for action and I'm afraid to say, Mr. President, the wait is endless. Let me remember that in February 2018, I directed an unprepared inquiry to the highest level. Secretary of real estate assessment. Had a good reason. By then, real - estate assessments had increased by 13.8% in general, while the prices of the cottage had increased by 38.7%. I asked the highest. Minister if the owners of real estate could expect to have shelter in him, and I heard from his answer then not. I have to let myself tell you that little has happened. The fact is, we are here on the basis of this total open price. It's based on the mechanical calculations of the institutions in a town. I don't doubt that there's a conscientious work there, but there's no elected representative of these tax increases. This is so peculiar that it appears on the national database that this assessment is being revised and that it was adjusted for an error associated with a summer-sea assessment. [[The president calls.]] I don't know that any man has been reimbursed. It is also noted that there is now a distance from the pool into the food, and this is the basis for taxation, the super taxation that is not at the end. [[The president calls.]] This has to stop, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u51	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for putting this case on schedule and cheering the interest shown here in promoting improved agricultural use and expanding farm society income populations. While such impulse may be good, I believe, however, even more important, if we really want to do something about it, that there will be some improvement. These include a three-phase electricity and offering farmers a chance to increase the variety of productions and thus increase their job activity in rural areas. This is what would really change something. Mr. President. We hear a lot about the need for new ideas and much about innovation in agriculture, but in the end, the barriers are too many. There are other factors, such as transport costs, limited support for organic farming, and unorthodox habitats. Mr. President. Icelandic agriculture is a complete crusade. A simple generation change must be made, and in a far greater way than with a tax motivated spirit, though of course, they are good. It is not enough to attract people and encourage them to live in rural areas, so people will have to pay the road so that they will be able to live in the countryside for the future. In short, Mr. President, we need to make it more attractive to live in rural areas, for example. with better Internet connection, better transportation, and better connection with school for children. There are national interests in running a wide range of and powerful working life across the country, especially food production that most is based on domestic products. By doing so, we will return the highest national security because of both the use of resources and the work that needs to be contributed to the production.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u52	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for her input into this discussion and as a talk at the highest. Minister. I confess that the discussion such as this has not completely centered on the background. paritaprevir The Olsen Gunnarsdóttir has allowed members of Congress to cross the field, take care of general agricultural politics, general regulations for farming trade, and, in fact, in general, for agricultural purposes. To help you grasp the questions at any given moment. A senator asks the highest. A minister I would react in such a way that I think that there is every reason to review the taxation rules in this field. I think that there are grounds for this, and in itself many words that have fallen here during the discussion under my opinion that there is reason to review the rules of taxing farms. However, I'm not sure that the route would go. A saying that in this relationship it is necessary to be the right one. I'd like to have a specific advance on that. There may be an error today, but the way in which this is put may lead to some other clumping. I think accounting is definitely entitled. However, I stress that taxation in this area as well as in others is, of course, based on general rules and guidelines. I want people to avoid specific rules, and I agree with them. Council members who have today emphasized that there is no basis for raising taxes on this type of currency rather than elsewhere. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u53	A respectable president. What I think is left behind at this point in the discussion is how it seems to be a failure in information. I think, regardless of whether people want to change the tax system in any way, change this arrangement, or go to some form of overall reexamination, such as that. paritaprevir Dr. Anna Sævarsdóttir went over here earlier, that the information needs to be okay. They need to be right. It is not only to design the tax system but because when information is wrong and it is known to be inaccurate, there are many other problems that can arise that no one knows about. Opacity is inherently harmful, and it is not only harmful to the tax system; it is also harmful for discussions, e.g. about possession of land, or when it comes to extorting or preventing any kind of cheating and corruption that can be rife with grassy ears. In that respect, I wondered, in advance, about my ignorance of the material, whether the ideas have come up a little too early, i.e. versus whether they can be discussed based on existing grounds. If not available, it is a little difficult to plan on developing some logical view of how to change the system, i.e. if it is known in advance that the data is unreliable. I'm going to do it for now, more dignified president. I will continue to listen and make a final impression on this later, but I must say that warning words are highest. Minister, at least In a hurry, making it a point that I'm not excited about these changes and, in fact, have not yet heard a very convincing argument. I'd like to take a closer look, I think it's a good idea to get the information fixed, put it together, and make it clear and accessible to the authorities and even more, but to take action, as I understand the discussion so far, at least I don't think it's time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u54	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir An Birgir's Ármannsson introduced taxes, real estate fees. So I ask myself, " Is it right to tax in exactly the same way a young farmer trying to start cultivating the ground and the rich man who buys the earth after the ground, just to be a hunter, a salmon? ' There's the sky and the sea between us. The young farmer who is trying to start cultivating the ground is in debt, but he seems to be having a good time. There is also another amazing thing about this, and it's how easy it is to buy everything in Iceland. If you look, for example. Denmark can only buy one town out there in the countryside except have a social security number. There are little exceptions if you have a connection but you need to apply for a minister. It seems there to be a place where you can buy all the land you don't need. We also know that it is always that way if you disagree with foreigners and others that you have come into the groves of farmers. It's becoming like in the eater system, where there's a lot of compression. Great citizens buy countries, the little farmers are prepared to defend themselves, and we are raising a generation of children who never go to the countryside and think that food will be available at the store. It's kind of a frightening development, so we're supposed to make sure that farmers can live on their soil without us adding the expense to them, but rather be on the other side, that we make it easier for them to live there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u55	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers and members of Parliament who have participated in the discussion. It is true that she has gone out a little bit in the open, and the obvious misunderstanding has been here to suggest a new curse on farmers, just to be said at the outset. In my speech, I said that it was obvious that there must be an attack on the impact, how it would be distributed, and how it would come out. I also spoke of databases being absent and okay, like the highest. A minister then entered, and that's one of the things we have to get going to do, ending up from treason, as the minister said. This requires adjustment. I said that this would be done so that the rural communities would be authorized to contribute lower land spending, which is defined as agrienvironment in rural society, rather than to reduce the burden on farms but not to use them for agricultural purposes. I reiterate this view because of the misunderstanding I've felt was here. Is there any difference in the system? It's a lot of places, both in Iceland and then we've often talked about that in North Noregis, they're different than in Oslo or more densely populated, so the system can be completely implemented. The current property tax system is very complex, but it is an important source of income for rural society. He has three pressures and rural groups can raise it up to 25%, so it's a little under the rural population at any given time. I have the belief that by the correct implementation this way will cause soils to be collected so that the farms where there are farms will be brought to bear a lower tax percentage than those that are wealthy in summer houses or are, for example, those who are wealthy. rented through Airbnb. [[The president calls.]] I hope people realize what this discussion is all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u56	Mr. President. Yes, there have been a number of discussions. So I might draw it together for a question-or-treater's initial action, it must be made as it is in order to adopt or explore a new system, the creation of the landreal file needs to be counter-established. In the meantime, this discussion is not timely. The discussion may be taking place, but there are too many faults. However, if it is done, there are available because I did not answer it, in current rural administration laws allowing the government to reduce the budgets of farms in use rather than the rest. This could be the result. Of course, if a country's value in this modified system was to be much more, these sources could be used to reduce the budget for a new food - producing land. However, it is also necessary and very important that we complete this building on the land file, especially because we need better information about land and land quality so that the rural communities in their strategy can include The decision to defend a good agricultural country is to protect its food production, its food security. That means there must be a file like this, some kind of food for the quality of the country. However, because the debate spread throughout the world, it must also be said that it is trying to evaluate the market worth of possessions, e.g. are hotel floors in the capital area, depending on where they are, and summer homes. Depending on the price paid by men. Then it is in the hands of local authorities to place the percentage change on the basis of it. [[The president calls.]] Many rural communities have dropped their percentage load because the level of food has increased very much, but not all of it. But it's up to them, not ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u57	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a bill of changing the law on farm income and rural law. The primary objective of the bill is to strengthen the legal role of rural Surgeon Fund to equalize the needs of different incomes and the tax revenues of rural society. The motive is primarily the Supreme Court of May 14, 2019, No. 34/2018. There the judge concluded that a law requiring a recommendation in the regulation on the deletion of the equations to the highest income of the country's rural society did not satisfy the law laid down in 2 mg. 78th par. Constitutions. The constitution of the Constitution states that the income stocks of rural society are determined by law and their right to decide whether and how to use them. Following the trial, the Ministry began work to review the general budget of rural society in order to explain the sources of the legislator's granting donations in accordance with the standards of the Supreme Court. The Ministry has also come to the conclusion that it is right to validate the requirements of the fund in order to provide further support to the rules on the distribution of equations and clear groundwork and the basis for the fund's production. In general, the main element of the bill can be divided into several parts. First of all, these are the changes suggested in order to update the references of laws and requirements. Second, adjustments in the regulations of rural income isolates are proposed, in which a more detailed explanation is given and the calculation of the budget of rural congregations is calculated. The proposed changes are largely law-enforcement of the regulations contained in regulations and have been placed on the basis of the law throughout the past. Thus, many of the rules found in the bill have been in force for decades and have to do with them. contributions to the cohesion of rural society, basic school contributions, and the general equations of the fund. It is proper to draw special attention to the legal requirements presented here, not to make changes in the current fund's donations, but primarily to strengthen the foundation and calculation of existing donations. Have the provision of all the objective objectives to balance the status of individuals who live in the rural areas as well as based on objective measures that are truly in relation to the need of the rural society on their income and expenses. Third, there is a law on the bill that allows an equation fund to make certain contributions in the distribution of the fund. It is suggested that legal action be legalized, which allows the funds to continue after up to 1,000 million. K. This year for 15 years of earning an equation that does not come up with the issues of disabled people or principal schools. For this reason, it is proper to mention that it is and has been a legal function of the equation to provide donations for the unity of your community and to make contributions on average, on average, about 300 million. K. for the last ten years. The provisional principle currently recommended provides an equation fund solely available to keep money in place each year for the next 15 years to collect funds that will be met with additional expenses due to proposed rural units for the next year. In addition, it is suggested that the equation fund be provided with a provisional directive to use the small financial funds of rural funds to cover the five rural communities resulting in a decline in equations based on the Regulation that did not sufficiently improve in 2013- models of the 2013 ulcers2018. This is up to 1,300 million. K. which have been paid for by the local authorities. The payment from a real estate fund will then be recovered by holding down a small portion of the fund's donations for up to six years to minimise the impact of the budget on total municipal donations. Fourth, there is a change in rural law, No. 138/2011, to eliminate a rule set out in 132.g. Substitute government law. Code 132.gr. In total, the Ministry of Government grants permission to confirm its approval of the government of a rural society which assumes a different administrative structure which is laid up in rural law in the case of experimental projects due to community unity. The rule under which to cancel is that only one unit experiment of the same nature will be allowed at a time. The decline of the rule is part of an action that has the intent to facilitate the integration of rural unions. In the end, it is suggested that a general authority be established to cancel contributions to rural society, which have a 50% higher average income per population compared to similar rural areas. The rule was discussed on the Supreme Court judgment No. 34/2018, main subject of the bill. The rule means that, after the equation funds have been calculated according to the criteria of the fund, contributions to all of the country's largest income companies are dropped before distribution. The directive makes it possible that contributions to rural society, the least necessary for such donations, to drop down and move on to the rural groups that need more money to be given in order to serve their citizens in a legal way. A respectable president. The question of this law may be asked: What is the purpose of the branch trust fund? Is there reason to hold on to a network that varies the taxpaying process to a rural society, even making contributions to a particular group totally drop? To answer all the rules recommended here, it is intended to achieve the goal of equalizing the status of the less-cost rural partners compared to similar rural areas. The purpose is for all inhabitants of the country to have the same service from their local community, no matter where they live in the country, it is a key premise for all legislation on the balance fund, which, yes, is just an equation fund. In this context, it is appropriate to mention that of the 5th quarter of the 9th paragraph. The European Treaty on the Self - Control of a rural society validated by Iceland, says, by permission of presidents: To ensure the economic benefits of rural management, there must be an arrangement for equal income or equivalent measures that aim to correct the effects of non-iversal divisions and the expenses they must meet. Such routes or measures should not reduce the freedom of rural governments within their domain. The European Convention thus estimates that operating will be a system that ensures the benefit of rural society by leveling their income. Thus, the development and activities of rural development are also an important part of ensuring the autonomy of rural society so that all rural society can carry out their legal tasks with the interests of all the citizens of this country guided. This bill aims to wipe out a legal assurance of improvement for the administrative facilities handled by the European Union Fund on behalf of the United States and rural society according to the law. If the bill is legalized to a large degree, and it should also be administrated for the threat of lawsuits that could result in further government spending and a reduction in funds to all rural society. Therefore, the bill aims to further improve the development of rural society's financial resources in terms of its primary role in equalizing the needs of different incomes and tax revenues of rural enterprises with contributions from the fund and by strengthening the rural management level by making it easier for rural partners to cohesion. A respectable president. I have now explained the subject of the bill and suggested that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u58	Mr. President. I hereby recommend the majority of the General and Education Committee on a bill to legalize individual registration. The committee discussed the matter extensively, and also received reviews from Iceland's Habitats, Whoalsville, Pernavitation, Reykjavíkurborg, national tax management, the Union of Icelandic rural society, the Association of Industrial Society, the Communicate of Technologies, the State's Insurance Institute and the National Union of Iceland. The objective of the bill is to place new overall laws on individual registration and to replace national and public registration laws from 1962. The bill is specifically intended to bring the current public registration into line with social and technological changes. I'm going to go over that opinion, there are some changes that the committee made that I believe are important. That's a change of 5. who have a relationship with a character protection. A review of the Federal Protection of the bill gave evidence that Iceland's National Publications Index did not have any perennial reasons to cooperate with national background information, and it was natural to use state and country. In this regard, the greater part takes to suggest that the term "ethnic " be removed from the list in Article 5. and the land of state and birth will be replaced. At the same time, the greater part suggests that religion will be disfellowshipped from this same article as its replacement will be registered in religious and biological institutions. A greater proportion also suggests that the headline of this article will be changed to Vinning Personal Information in accordance with the Persian Protection, which better describes its contents. About 6. g., on registration information in a national registry, Iceland's National Registry pointed out that once the bill had been won, it had disappeared from the list at 1 mgr. Section 6. that there were recorded information on place of birth. It is up to the Department of Transport and Department of Transport that the birthplace is being added to the current list. Two. Section 6. The National Relations of Iceland is required to document other information than the bill for special projects, government interests or international commitments. Iceland's Office of Economics points out that the Agency's public budget, which is extremely important to many aspects of society, and for this reason, the majority contributes in line with the review and the position of the Department of Transport and Development at 2 mg. Section 6. will be added to the registration of information for the sake of the report. For a system ID and a special registration in Article 11. A report on Article 11 showed that the European Union is involved in the treatment of the situation. are listed as examples of public members who might be involved in the registration of a system ID. There was no mention of the role of a local partner, and the relationship was not appreciated because they should be counted by the government of the government. Under these circumstances, we take into account in the majority of our activities and suggest that, of course, rural society is counted among the public members of Article 11. Personal protection pointed out in its review that the sentence of the Regulation on the basis of this same article should clearly state the personal information listed in the version of a system ID. In this respect, the majority of the part in Peritoneal protection is encouraged to ensure that, when the Regulation is carried out, there is clarity and a moderate degree and no record of more information than it is necessary to do so. The committee discussed the subject of Article 12. and the reviews that several peoples pointed to the need to have authority on the treatment of national data. The government tax manager pointed out that the office was building its tax base on a national copy as discussed in 5 mg. Section 12. The majority of the measures specified in sections 1 and 2. Section 12. that the National Constitution of Iceland can impart or grant permission to the media to provide national records and to provide reserves from bans on the national reporting of national records is sufficient to allow the head of the tax and other government agencies to perform their legal functions. Furthermore, in accordance with information received by the Commission in the handling of the case, the proposed regulations will be undertaken as well as those which will be specifically consulted with major stakeholders, such as the head of the tax. Therefore, the majority of the shares are not considered to be a reason to mention in the terms of which a national file will be allowed to be used in any other way than that stated. In accordance with the Universal Protection Act, the greater part believes that in view of the surveillance role established by Peron Protection, the National Security Act of Iceland will not be submitted to the protection and implementation of personal information in the way expected in a paper with the bill. The majority of the claim is that Iceland's National Publications Index has been controlled by national records, while Perlon protection is under way monitoring that the terms of personal protection are met according to its legal role. So the majority does not consider that section 12 to be a reason to change. to monitor the provision of the provision of public files. For the protection of the registered subjects against the dispensing of data in Article 14. Showing that, according to this article, those who are protected would be specifically marked in the registry so that they could be distinguished from those who are not at home. The majority feel that special meanings will improve efficiency and good success in achieving the objectives of personal protection and will encourage such markings to be performed. I'd like to explain to you a big change that the Committee suggests in Article 3. Section 15. and I'm going to read it, with the permission of the president. 3 mg Comments in this way: The European Union of Iceland holds a list of those who object that their names are used in marketing operations. A minister, in agreement with the National Registry of Iceland and Peritoneal Protection, provides further guidelines on the design and use of such files and what information should be presented there. The responsible personnel involved in a direct marketing application and those using a list of names, addresses, addresses, phone numbers and the like or allow them to share in such activities should, before using such a registry for this purpose, compare it with the National Book of Iceland to prevent target mail being sent or called to persons who have objected to such activities. In accordance with laws on personal protection and processing of personal information, the National Constitution of Iceland can authorize annuity from this obligation in special cases. I just wanted to go over it because it's a really big change in the article. In the treatment of the situation, there was a great deal of discussion on terms of reimbursement, cost of business and funding of Iceland's National Congress. According to the 19th C.E., a currency warrant is involved. It was necessary to explain how incomes in the form of services would be set in order. This committee received detailed information from the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs on the views given at the time of the contract. It stated that the comparable terms of other laws, exposés, Supreme Court reviews and the guidelines of the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs were used, as well as given by the legal requirements of the Community Association Act on which the Government's Accounting Study was addressed, and considered to be a clear basis. Thus, the majority of the terms of remuneration are in line with the requirements for the clarity of such rules. 20th degree. The bill shows that Iceland's National Registry and Insurance Organization are streaming up at the annual cost of recruiting national records. The majority of the measures may be more suitable, since according to the bill it is intended to set up a working group to identify the social benefits of the provision of the Agency's national and other core files. The majority feels that there will be an assessment of the best budget for funding the Agency, i.e. Whether funding should be based solely on financial, payment, or both. Since such assessment has not been made, the majority of the items do not consider it time to make adjustments in the requirements of the bill for the collection and management of the Agency. At that point, the matter was discussed in Article 3. Twenty-one. who claim that rural communities have the right to a restricted population each year. This pay period was specifically discussed in the context of the obligation laid upon rural areas of 3 mg. 17th par. to review their population records at least three times a year. The majority agree with the local community's view that they should obtain free copies to carry out their legal role and that they suggest it. The economist noted the contents of 2 mg 3 of the journals. Twenty-one. The list of information provided by Iceland's National Book of Economics would be added to the phone numbers and e-mails to include participants in their research. In view of the fact that Iceland's National Registry does not generally collect the above information, although they are sometimes recorded, a greater part of it suggests that Iceland's National Registry should be helped by Iceland's Habitats to find details about participants in its research, as the information is recorded in a national file. The majority believe that the above change contributes to the success of Haust Iceland's work without laying on the Iceland National Registry that the Agency cannot fulfill. This was also shown by Persian protection in the law of No. 90/2018 would include a set of specific guidelines, including the National Constitution of Iceland. Some of these decisions would be more fitting in special laws, but they would have been under the laws on personal protection while it was not clear whether they would be placed elsewhere in law in order to prevent a legal void and a substantial rights protection. There would be better way for this special law to be specified in a special law, such as a law on registration of individuals. So the majority adds up with Perone Protection to sections 2 and 3. Twenty-one. law on personal protection and processing of personal information will be removed from the law and, as appropriate, added to 3 mg. Section 15. law on individual registration. Then the majority suggest that the term sampler should be added to an explanation of Article 4. and up to 2 mg. Section 16. will be removed as it is a physical harmony of the 1st team. Twenty-niner. Finally, technical adjustments are proposed. After all, the greater part suggests that the matter will be agreed with the changes proposed in a special Senate document. Under this opinion, publications are written. Councilmen Páll Magnússon, Árnadóttir Kolbröndóttir, Birgir Ármannsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Hjálmar Hafliðason Cradleson, and on a short notice are Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson and Jón Steindór Valdimarsson of the bill that has to do with the translation of the beliefs and principles of life.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u59	A respectable president. I recommend the committee of my part of the General and Education Committee which is made up of the ones listed here. I know it's trying to defuse the fashions of simply reading up the names of committees that are presented, but I can't set myself up to read correct words, at the beginning of the first chapter of this committee opinion. But first, I just want to say that the lesser part is celebrating this bill. It's a very good bill, a great improvement, considering what's in the past. I'm not sure that I would support the setting of these laws if they were not available, i.e. to establish this arrangement if there were no such items available. It's like with a lot of things in the community, there's a lot of things we've gotten used to, and we've actually designed our community around, but we're based on something that we might not have approved if it was starting to happen right now. The first thing that comes into your mind may be the arrangement of authors. It is completely unthinkable in my mind that it would be established as it is in the present form if there were no writers' union. But also the phenomenon is national, this superabundant collection of data on Iceland's citizens. According to that, this bill is very good. This is a direct result of the European Union GDPR Regulation, which we brought into the law of recent and large-scale delinquency rights of people for privacy. In order to be maintained, they made good changes from abroad. They came from the European Union. So it won't forget. Also, I think that the adjustment proposals of the greater part are positive and will be used to vote with them. The difference may be mainly in smaller parts and more in this bill that the smaller part wants to go further in defending the city's rights in terms of freeness of official information. Then, with the permission of a respectable president, a brief reading from the members of my section comes directly from the committee's list: ▪ The majority believe that since the beginning of the world's public records have been questionable and have become even more questionable as information technology has advanced. Enrollment of individuals is uninterruptedly beneficial, but both to objective and nonverbal involvement with private citizens. For example, individuals need to give up to their official sources regularly, i.e. His home. While it is clear how such official registration can have a personal security impact, it has generally been assumed in Icelandic society that the public will retain a record of these delicate and personal information for general reference. That's where I realize that there may be a rather radical idea to be discussed in the eyes of a lot of people. It's the idea that your home, where you sleep, where you keep your stuff and where you raise your children, may be just a personal matter in the life of every person that they should only get a little privacy. I know this is probably very radical in the minds of very many Icelanders who are accustomed to gathering information here and distributing to more or less everyone. But there's a 14th. The bill is a great deal of relief that comes from asking for special protection. This protection is intended for people who can somehow demonstrate that they are in some other way at risk of being for public reference to their security or legitimate interests. There is then some kind of limitation or ban on the spread of information about the name and home. The information is still collected, but it must not be distributed. The comment on the memory part of this article is that there is a need for the registered person to prove specifically by reason and even evidence why he needs this special protection. The lesser part may agree that at least according to the whole arrangement in Iceland, the way things work with landmarks and names and so on, they can be perturbing when it comes to people's name, but when it comes to people's legal home, it just doesn't quite matter why they should be the clear right of others to look up these places regularly, you see people's legal homes, unless it is specifically demonstrated by some reason and evidence that it is actually dangerous to do so. Therefore, the smaller part suggests that a registered person can simply request that a legal contact information about it be not distributed and that it simply will not be distributed. I must add that I find it surprising how little has been discussed about the obvious safety issues involved. Then I want to give up my beliefs and beliefs. Even more sensitive information is available. The first thing to do about this bill and the views of the Committee and the attitudes of those who wrote this bill: It is a complete attempt to have this ◯dipolë, i.e. Registration of beliefs. It is not proposed in the committee's section directly written on people's beliefs. Rather, it is recorded in a religious or biological society, which, of course, is exactly the same in the vast majority of cases, but that it includes legalizing as it all ways according to the words, does not necessarily involve the individual's religious convictions and therefore does not write on sensitive personal information, people want the expected ill. All personal information can now be abused in any way, both right and wrong, both sensitive and not sensitive, and they are abused by various sources, not just authorities, but perhaps most of the private agents these days, because of Internet and technical reasons. But there's one thing we're writing here in Iceland that's registered in a religion that I'm just going to say is that it's just a log of people's beliefs and principles. That's what it is after all. And the experiences we will be able to take care of when such information is abused are terrible. That is no less than the most terrible example of wickedness we have. It's, for example. one example. I know it doesn't seem fancy in politics to talk about Nazis or talk as if they ever existed or did something, it's always pretend that there's just some ghost story, some big story that doesn't have any support in the real world, but it's true that the Nazis existed and still exist, and they really got power in Germany, and their leader was in the real person named Adolf Hitler. He was real. In other words, he was not a vampire or a ghost. He was a man of flesh and blood, and he gained authority in two elections. The Nazis destroyed the election in 1932, in fact, at least two elections I read about recently. They took over democracy. It's always forgotten. Of course, it doesn't justify the atrocities they committed, just in view of how the political situation in the Western world is common in these days, it is the most incredible nonsense justified by the fact that some powerful men have a democratic authority to do terrible things. That's no excuse. But what I'm trying to do is that when the Nazis started persecuting Jews more and more - it's something that forgotten about that story, it's not as if the concentration camps only opened on time when Hitler came into power, this took a little time; the Holocaust is said to have begun in 1941, if I remember correctly, which is after two years of war and after a relatively longer Nazi position - there were very many Jews in Germany who had changed their names, who thought it was a German to avoid persecution, prejudice in the community. But there was a record of people's religion. That is how the Nazis found Jews who had tried to hide by name, put these Jews in a concentration camp, and killed them millions. This may sound like so-called emotional porn, but as I say, it really happened. It's not a ghost story. This really happened. It's not that long ago. Now there is a rising catch that may not feel quite right for the Holocaust, but there are quite a lot of discrimination. Then I'm not talking about someone who is totally at the edge of politics in the Western world. It's famous, for example. The president of the United States, Donald Trump, made a promise in the campaign to stop all the Muslim entry into the United States. It is the United States that has freedom of worship in its first Amendment. The man wins the election. It's just the situation we're in in in in the West. There is a fair demand for such views. Suffices like Donald Trump have power because they are elected; in fact, in a sullied campaign system west of the ocean, in fact, in many ways damaged, but still is elected by a system that is fundamentally democratic. It's not impossible for any such force to take over here in Iceland. We have been blessedly free of them, at least to the greater extent. It has happened once, relatively recently, in fact, that one what happened. paritaprevir The Independence Party suggested a special study of Muslims for being Muslim, and it naturally became quite a stir. I just want to mention in the process that my conversations with other independents strongly indicated that these views were not welcome in that category, which is very important and good. But there are such powers here, and they can reach their power, both through groups that exist today and by new categories. Parts can change, as we know. Enough about that. What I'm trying to get to is that the smaller part thinks that registration of these religions and principles is not important enough to keep it. He proposes that she be discontinued. All we need to discuss is why this is registered here in Iceland. This is not documented because it serves very rich public interests. This is recorded because in Iceland we are still in 2019 with a so - called National Church, which is a different concept if it goes into practice. But we have it, at least, and one of the things the church needs, in view of its national interest, is money. She needs money from taxpayers. It's amazing, I think, how many so-called right men in Iceland don't criticize that preposterous arrangement. Of course, this tax is called an application to hide his true character, which is he is a tax, and so that the charge can go to other religious and principles partners, it also needs to be noted in a national file who is registered in any body to know how to finance these religious and biological institutions with tax money. A respectable president. This is not an important part of the State. This isn't a public interest business. These companies can completely charge their own membership fees. I'm standing here as a former member of a life-care organization who gets this money - but actually has a policy to eliminate that arrangement. To stay in this arrangement, which is some political wish for a very indistinguishable reason in my opinion and, in fact, historical reasons at all, is just not a good reason to keep in mind sensitive information, such as entry into religious organizations. The members of my section also have a brief period of reimbursement, but reviewers were somewhat critical of the use of national data, especially when they are responsible for their legal role. The lesser part agrees with this and considers it especially important that rural and government agencies have free access to these data to carry out their legal role. If that's too much information, just reevaluate the legal function. It is planned to set up a team of working men to identify what is called the social benefit of making information out of a national file and base-of-employment, and therefore the less part does not suggest a change, but more part has an adjustment due to the remuneration that the smaller part supports. Then we came to 20. The bill, which contains very interesting regulations. It's interesting for them because it's strange, unconvinced, as is, in fact, certain things in the law. It stipulates a huge arrangement that allows the government's insurance system to flow from a tenth of the national cost. It's kind of funny to try to figure out how this is possible, why a TR should be paid for the operation of the Constitution. This can be traced back to the council and to support the argument: It was appropriate at the time. That's all there is to argument. The lesser part suggests that this strange arrangement will just be stopped. When this has happened, it has happened before, I understand that people have found something complicated to fix it so that national records are controlled, not to the tenth part of the TR. You realize people are complicated. That we need to take a closer look at how it should be made up. The smaller part doesn't quite see what's complicated about it. There are two things you need to do: fix these laws and turn the appropriate amount into budgets. I don't see that it's complicated, it's probably a tenth of the budget of the National Insurance Office for Iceland's National Records. I don't see that it's more complicated, but I'm not on a budget either. I have to admit that the budget is on the issues I have found most difficult to deal with when it comes to technical transfers of funds between institutions and such. But in any case, I put that problem in my good coal. Gunnarsson He is a representative of Pirata on the budget. What has come to my committee, the General and Education Committee, and this bill is simply 20. and 1st. Twenty-one. and I suggest that this be simply removed. There will also be an opportunity to mention something else that tortures the Kingdom and that is, in my opinion, very cruel. It's about software. It's become, I think, almost famous as far as it's been difficult to make changes in a national file for e.g. sex and names and such for technical reasons, for software reasons. Increasing software systems and processes around them has been such an expensive and massive project that it has prevented the lawgiver's will to increase e.g. Free to register human names and genders and such. My colleagues from the software industry find it easy to minimize this problem and visualize one SQL directive to update some table, and then it's dead, but I guess it's not quite that simple. The register is not just national. It is not necessarily the latest technology and science that is being used, and it can be an old system that is used in public and often used. However, there are also standards and processes and other members of the community who use these data that also need to be able to continue using them, such as. If they are allowed a new character set or something like that, they also need to be able to cope with these technical changes by peoples and users of national files. This is a slightly complex but simple SQL command to update the table in a cute, open database. But in any case, it was not what I was going to start talking about. Rather, it was much more the bad habit of public institutions that purchase specialized software. Official institutions are buying special property. They have special needs, such as. Iceland's national records, typical of its special needs for software. The Ministry of Financial Affairs, too, is buying a lot of institutions that buy specialized software from some software producer, no doubt a fine software producer. But he's got the software. This is an absolute ill in my opinion when it comes to software development and updates, especially on massive systems. The Kingdom has only this one party to deal with when it comes to upcoming anything. Then it depends on the time of that party and its registration, and no competition is possible, except by starting the project completely from its base. Orri is a giant system, from what I hear, that treats the government budget. That is an example of this. The government doesn't own this system. It's already been financed, not on the system, but on the whole development process. That means that there is no person who can change or do anything about it except the person who sold that job and that system, despite the fact that the State has financed all the software development. This makes it possible that a system will be established by certain manufacturers, and no matter how good they may be -- I'm not trying to minimize professionalism or the quality standards of the manufacturer who makes software, that's not the case. The point is, if we're going to compete, if we, as the government, are going to allow competition for software projects, especially the more expensive software, then the State has to own the software itself in order to be able to choose between other software houses, the software manufacturers. It's just a key. I understood from committee discussions that this was the case with an up-and-out of national records that are extremely important. We had a visitor from the Ministry who was blessed with agreeing with the people here on the importance of clearness, and he began to examine it and tell us it was all right. The lesser part must just take it well. There's another thing about which I just want to complain about or mention, at least, and that's what comes next, that's that the state's specialized software should be open. An open software is a concept that many may find complicated. It's not. People really understand what an open meeting is and what a closed meeting is. It understands exactly what open accounting is, in contrast to the closed books. An open software is just an open software, a software that everyone can see how it works and experiment with if they want, at least in most open ways. This is not the same as having open data. The software that handles the management of a database may be open, the database itself as software may be open, but the data stored in this software need not be open. They can be completely closed. Just like a car. You can know all about how the car works, but you don't have to know everything about the passenger car. You can put any passenger in the car and you can share it with no one, but you can tell everyone how it works, how fast it gets, how to fix it, what can crack it, etc. Same with the software. When it is open, anyone can look at the code and fix it, or at least suggest a change, and the person with software that is open can easily access an invitation and just post the code online and say: Here are the code, we need this and the other: How well can you offer to do this job? Then software producers offer a job and how they handle that job can also be opened. There is no basis for this, and it is in no way dangerous when it comes to personal protection or security, something that people often worry about. In fact, I'm saying this in advance that it can be impossible to take a software that has been developing very much and very long in a closed environment without anyone being available to the code and then just open it without going over it at least first. The reason is this -- and now all I have to do is offend myself, but that's how people work -- that when programmers assume that no one sees the code is shorter that they accept a system of security they would not accept. In other words, they assume that security lies in the absence of anyone to see the code. It's a bad practitioner, it's a bad trick, but it's still happening in real life, and that's what you need to watch when code is taken and it's already closed and it's opened. But to perform the task so that it is open from the start does not involve any safety problems beyond what comes with the closed software. As I mentioned in the beginning, the smaller part supports, despite all the changes in both the bill and the changes in the section. This bill is a characteristic of what Iceland has been without restraint in the collection of personal information, even more vulnerable, and their distribution. If we lived in a community that wasn't used national file and problems had been solved so far in some other way, I wouldn't be supporting this bill. - Thank you. A senator begins to stop by at the Senate Hall. It's nice to have one person from time to time in the audience. The situation is the way it is, we use ratings completely wild and crazy. I can't quite tell how an Icelandic society would work if we changed it overnight. But surely this bill is a step in the right direction, especially in the distribution of the data and the rights of the registered to be informed about how to handle the data. There's one more thing I'd like to talk about that is interesting to me. In the future, what is called the Internet call is intended. I'm gonna skip technical explanations on this, but it's a technical application that makes it easier for a national file to keep up who looked up. This means that it is easier for the registered person to find out who is looking it up and why. For example: If a political party looks up an individual into a national file to find, for example. To ensure correct registration of the ideal society, the registered member would be informed. Unfortunately, this is a future mouse, which is not quite real, but it is positive, and I find it helpful to see that the efforts of the authorities in this category are generally better, which is not probably, even in so - called free democracy like Iceland, which is certainly free from the Soviet Union but is not compared to the wildest dreams of what we have here. I'm not gonna have this any further, more dignified president. The nominee is accompanied by a list of five listed changes that are outlined at the end of this article. Under the heading, the person standing here and no one else writes. I hope, though, that more people push the green button at a vote. We'll see. Like you sometimes say, never say anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u60	Madam President. I recommend a board of committees with a change to bill to legalize the law of foreign business investments, No. 34/1991 (remooning farm conditions), on sk. 493. On behalf of the Economic and Business Committee. As stated in a short committee program, the bill responds to comments from the EFTA monitoring agency on the conditions for the residence of directors and managers in Icelandic companies. In the past, comparable comments have been made by changing the social law, private partnership laws, and the laws on auto-reliance institutions, such as law No. 25/2017. The committee does not have material comments on the bill but suggests a change in wording to enhance clarity. These adjustments do not have any material effect, but they are identified in the Senate document. Under this opinion, write why. And the members of Óli Björn, the son of Kárason, the Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, Briven, the Brynjar of Níelsson, Harðardóttir G.; Hardydur, the daughter of Ólafur, the Þór of Gunnarsson, Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, the Smári son of Mccarthy, and Silja, the Gunnarsdóttir of Döggns.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u61	Madam President. I hereby recommend a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee on a bill to legalize the change of various laws due to budgets for 2020. It's all over. 543. The committee met a considerable number of people mentioned in the committee's opinion and received reports. I'm just going straight to the committee without reading it. The bill suggests that centennium taxes so called increase according to Iceland's Summit and not change the index of consumer prices. This means an absolute decline in taxes between the years 2019 and 2020. This is an oil tax, a common special tax for fuel, a tax in general, a special mile [a km], a car tax, and a price of alcohol and tobacco. The same is true of the annual budget of the elderly and the radio fees for the State Radio. The bill suggests an extension of the duration of temporary regulations in the social security laws, social assistance laws, and the commitment of pension rights and the operation of pension funds. Is this to help prevent the cross-cutting of the disability benefits of social insurance and the disability of pensions from restarting in the next year and ensuring that the money of the income market due to the industry's biofuels will not be reduced from year to year to year. Free income is now 1,315.200. a year or 109,600K. per month. Would the duration of the provisional measures not be extended, would result in a loss of 1,315,200 k per cent of biofuels due to employment. This year at 300,000 dollars. ... and will cut the benefits of the disability and rehabilitation services that have job income over the holiday target. In this regard, a greater part is necessary to emphasize the importance of a complete re-examination of the insurance system at no later than in the coming year. It is noted that between 2009 and the year 2009, the sum of voluntary revenues has remained the same. It is important that a review of the insurance system is considered to increase the job pay market and ensures that this changes will take place every year in terms of the development of pay in a general labour market. In this way, microorganisms will be better equipped to improve their own interests. It can be added, without being said in a committee list, that this terms cannot be passed differently than we can achieve these changes. I believe that, and I trust that we will. 19th degree. The bill is required to provide application fees, etc., No. In addition, 91/1987, there is a provisional principle that the charge for Congregational Congregations and registered religions should be 930. every year in the coming year for each person 16 years of age and older. According to a comparable provisional principle in the law, the price was 925. A financial and economic memo to the Committee suggests that this dollar number increases according to the criteria of the transition to a greater proportion of legal committees at 2. the budget of a bill by 2020 to be 975. The evidence is covered in the committee's opinion. The above - mentioned memo for the Ministry of Economics and Economics to the Committee is suggested at XIV. chapter 6 of the bill on changing insurance law, No. An article on the change in the permafrost share of the total insurance bill according to the 5th set of 2.mg is included in 113/1999. Section 3. The laws from 0.65% to 1.1%. To quote directly in the memo, it says: ▪ It is assumed that the spending of stocks will be 1,400 billion. K. More than the budget of 2019 C.E. The budget's budget will not be enough for his expenses during the year and despite the consideration of more than 2.5 billion dollars. The quality of the fund's status at the end of 2018 is aimed for it to be fired at the end of 2019 C.E. Increase the share of food or holiday reserves at the price of 0.45 percentage points should be used if the total funding of the fund is to be maintained during 2020, taking into account the angle of 2019. It is suggested that the share of food or holiday reserves in the overall insurance bill will be increased from 0.65% to 1.1%, thus reducing the proportion of pension and accident insurance back, as measured by the 6th add-on number 2.mg. Section 3. bill on insurance.How much money you've got? A greater proportion suggest that an appropriate change will be made in this section of the bill. In turn, taxation. Taxation of waste disposal can be an effective means of promoting environmental waste disposal. The Commission reviewed general agreements that governments will take action to increase prices and contribute to an increased category, recycling and recycling of waste. The corruption taxation is part of the government's climate action programme. One of the aims of environmental taxes is that those who are costing and adversely affect the environment depend directly on the costs. It is important that the implementation of the intended fold-off tax will contribute to this objective. Instead of being a clean income raise for the state funds, the tax is the product of environmental tax, which is intended to influence the behavior of individuals and companies. The more part wants in this relationship, particularly point to two things: 1st tax collection and collection need to be clarified in the bill, 2.Weaving is not available for homes and businesses to avoid bringing wastes to the market. It is noted that since there is no equipment available to weigh the amount of waste available to every household or company, it is not possible to connect to what each person does to the guards and the tax. Because of this, the tax can become only a nasal tax, independent of the quantity of the tax. According to the Scourge assessment, an increase in the population in the company's territory would be about 795 million. K. each year and the cost of enterprises by 1,620 million. K. According to a statement given by the European Union, the European Union puts the matter into practice: a key element that allows the relationship to support the legalisation of plagiarism tax is that income resources run directly to projects that aim to reduce waste disposal. The review also shows the need for income from the tax to become a new source of infrastructure in this field. Based on the above, the majority suggest that this section of the bill eliminates the tax and that appropriate changes will be made to this section of the bill. The majority of them refer to the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs and Resources to work on a new bill for changing the environmental and resource taxes laws that will be prosecuted in terms of tax collections, taking into account the above factors. It is important that this work be accelerated and that the local community be consulted on the change of law. The majority of them believe that it is important that co-integrated taxation should be considered to build structures in order to ensure that the tax will provide the desired result, i.e. to improve the systems, recycling and recycling of waste. It is natural that the income of the state funds from the tax will be used, at least In part, to necessaryinvestment in this respect. To propose a financial and economic proposal suggests that the more part is being added to the bill is part of a change in official financial law, No. 123/2015. These changes are suggested in step 1. 52. g. The Act states that an accounting should be made on the basis of an international government accounting standards aimed at the basis of the management for the A-part State Fund and State Department in Part A and that the State's Environment shall be committed to giving further rules on the interpretation of individual Member States in Part A. 2nd is suggested. The law of this matter, which shows that accounts for individual Member States in Part A, are to be met by the requirements for annual accounts. According to the Ministry's proposal, the separation in the current legislation of the accounts of Part A and the individual Member States of Period A, however, was considered to have been the simple accounting firm for State Offices in Part A. The act of the law, however, has caused problems and uncertainty that come with the different standards. For this reason it is suggested that an accounting for these parties be agreed. Then it is not expected that individual Member States and tasks in Part A will have to meet all the criteria for implementation, explanations and information. Rather, it is intended, in particular, to ensure that the balance of accounts will be made in agreement without any unnecessary burden to the lower parties. Therefore, it is in accordance with the State's financing rules of accounting and implementation of Member States and tasks in Part A which will be based on widely accepted accounting techniques. A change in 1 mg is also proposed. 54. g. The law to conform to the front. A memo issued by the Committee for Economic and Economic Affairs suggests a change in the bill from the Ministry of Justice that with the bill, there is an added section on the law on the extra pay of state funds, No. 88/1991. First, it is suggested that passport visas increase from 4,200 dollars. of 5,500 K. ... beforetheagewas 6 to 12 years and at 7,800 kns. of 11,000. for 13 years and older. These are visas produced in foreign citizens in Icelandic embassies primarily. Second, the term "laws " is suggested in the verses 33, 34, and 35. the application procedure changes to make it clear that there is a fee for the pay of the applications for the leaves and not for permission to be given. Third, a fee for the publishing of biographies for EES citizens, who are not EEA or EFTA citizens, is proposed to fall to 4,500 by the return of such certificates. This change can be attributed to the 2004 Council and the 2004 Council Directive, No. 2004/38, who insists that the deposit should be administered without charge or against a non-profit amount of money made to the citizens. According to the Bank of Iceland's Constitution, the applicant's version of his first ID is cost free, but due to a reimbursement of the same amount as it is submitted to the 37th number 14. The law. In front of this, the majority of the items contribute to these changes in the extra income of the state's funds. Other forms of the greater part are technically, which I don't cross here, and I don't have material influence. In this respect, the greater part contributes to the approval of the bill by the changes proposed to a special Senate document. Under the committee, the writer who stands here, Óli Björn Kárason, and why. And the residue of Brazer the son of Níelsson, and Brutti, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, and Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, and Silja the daughter of Dögg Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u62	Madam President. Thank you. A senator of the tour and history. He mentioned the tax card, and I've got to come in on it for a second. The roundness the government has had with regard to the ideas on this taxation is quite different. In 1st. This was a matter of laying down this tax and all objections to interest stakes involved were completely ignored. It will come, for example. ... intheprogram, which says: In view of government policy, Community review does not warrant changes in the bill. Then it's all been stirred up, and it's to take a closer look, only to hope, because it's got a complete dropout in the rural population, the government's special interest in laying on new taxes and bringing them into these beautiful costumes. I'm asking why. Councilman: This tax will be laid on the next budget, i.e. in the last financial laws of this government, and does it cause him to serve the role he is to play? [[The president calls.]] What happens, e.g. where garbage is burned like in the South, does it cause communities to pay this tax?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u63	Madam President. Only if there is one thing to be clear: There is not a tax on rural society that I thought was a problem. When a senator asked if South American communities should pay that tax, he figures. This tax is being passed on when it comes to it, on those who deliver waste to the guards, and on individuals and companies. It's not a raise for state funds. It's a tax base that's got, if it works, huh? A senator, disappearing in some years. For it to work, for companies and people to react, the infrastructure must be there, and unfortunately, they are not present as the situation is now. Therefore, a majority of the Committee points out that at least Part of these taxes should be protected by infrastructure, so we can see that the tax works, which means it disappears. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u64	Madam President. Thank you. Senator. It's the communities that collect the taxes, I'm fully aware of that, but the people are going to pay it. That's about it. 6,000 K. each family, and when the tax is fully operational, it is $12,000. There are many expenditures being added, and then the government is proud of paying taxes. What I wanted to say about it is that you have to listen to stakeholders, they're supposed to collect the tax. The company is to collect the taxes, and they have given this tax to a total loss rate. Companies such as village have severely criticized the matter and complained about the lack of communication. They say that it is obvious that the purpose of this tax is not environmental protection or growth in recycling and recycling, it does not seem to be to be to reduce waste. All of this is shown in the news of village, and it is clear that this journey was under no preparation. It is very critical, Madam President, how this case has been held and retraced. [[The president calls.]] It is clear that this tax system will become a reality, and I think it is a means of making a journey that does not result in the result of human success.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u65	When we discuss environmental taxes, we are discussing how we can repay those who have a negative impact on the environment and on which I am on that side. In fact, the organization of industry is on the side, considered normal and wise to minimize pollution. That's where I am. I don't understand why. A senator when he speaks of being ignored from criticism. That's exactly what more than a part of the Economic and Business Committee is saying, that the matter is not quite perfect. We point to a particular problem that should be taken into account, and we also say that in preparation for the introduction of this so - called tax tax, we must consult with our rural communities. I feel that the government and the administrative part of the Economic and Business Committee have done this very wisely. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u66	Madam President. I'd like to ask you a question last year. A senator, because I know that he shares this concern with me, is he not increasingly concerned about the state's tax level? We've just agreed to a budget of 1,000 billion expenses and in a fine summary and in the review of the Work force, including in 2020, it shows that the government's income is now 34% of the country's production adjusted for insurance, which is one of the highest tax rates known in OECD countries. In this comparison, it is only Sweden that is about equal to us. Would not have been the advice of this government to try to reduce a bit of taxation, boy. Chairman of the Economic and Business Committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u67	Madam President. It's always good to have questions like that. We're paying taxes here. This is indicated in a committee program that will be discussed later that during the term, the government will have reduced income taxes from individuals by 31 billion in total. The major weight of this reduction is in those who have least left their hands. We're talking about 31 billion in the season. Of course, I wanted to go further, but I don't have any more T-shirts. But you're right next to what you're talking about. A senator to Iceland is a high tax country, where we are totally united. We should not deceive ourselves by letting things happen. We are a nation of high taxes, and this can have serious consequences for the nation's competitiveness, not just the companies, but when it comes to paying people. [[The president calls.]] That's where I am, and that's where we're going.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u68	Madam President. You're right about what you're doing. A senator is worthy of honor, especially in 2021. I fear, however, that it may be very difficult for the government to deal with the down taxes simply because the economy is getting cold. We're hearing reports of reports every day. It is obvious that we are still working with a very optimistic look for the next year's state funds compared with the developments we see taking place in the economy. This may be very difficult for the government. I'll be very supportive of her, but I think it would be much longer. I think it's very important in the climate discussion and the green taxes that we are increasingly applying to them and asking if they are. A senator does not agree with me that such taxes are not restricted to government funds but must be concerned about reducing other fees. Maybe it's the biggest problem with sentennial taxes, that we're simply using the tax system for us in climate action, but we must not view such taxes as net income raise for government funds. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u69	Madam President. I agree with what. Senator. I've said in speech and literature before that I don't want and can never take part in the fact that environmental taxes are a special shelter to increase the overall budget for companies and individuals, which is not their goal. Our primary objective is to improve our relationship with nature. I'm there. Hence, the question is, Do we not have to overlook these so - called environmental taxes or green taxes? They're supposed to be temporary, and they're supposed to disappear. If they do not disappear, they have not achieved their purpose. That's for sure. And then it's not a green tax or an environmental tax. Then it's just the state clean income and then we'll just talk about it like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u70	Madam President. Now we have what? paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason often discussed the importance of explaining clearly what the argument is behind all the fees imposed by government agencies. I've been asking for this in a financial and business committee, that I think for three years, that this will be revised, at any rate, what the evidence is. Today, in this alliance, these charges are being raised without any analysis of the underlying issues. I'd like to ask you what. A senator will see if there is any chance that we will be able to take the job to analyze this in the near future and when.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u71	Madam President. You're right next door. A senator that we have discussed more than once, and more than twice, that when it comes to paying expenses, the real cost of the service employee, i.e. to the public is to render the services paid for. If there's anything beyond the real cost, it's a tax. We agree on this, and that's why this analysis needs to be conducted. But in this bill, we're talking about taxes, so-called centenarian taxes. We're talking about taxes on gasoline, and we're talking about charge for construction funds, etc. So we are not dealing with the extra income of a state fund or the payment of a given service this time. But the reason is exactly right. A senator to point to this, and this is a project that we should be on, of course, at times so that we are on other assignments that we need to complete. But the tip or the routine of your head. The senator made his point.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u72	President. It might be wise to make a decision sometime and try to keep it, because it's getting really intense. It is now, for example. in the extra budget of the state being changed by this bill, people who are going to start a new business around 130 you are. K. And good. The same increase in government funds is paying off other things that we know are far beyond being moderate and are actually taxing. That's some things we want to tax, e.g. gas. This is a reason to use it as a specific consumer control, especially in the light of the climate problem, but let's at least make it clear which is in each case. Similarly, certain government expenses are higher than prior fees, and this is the best case because, for example, certain arrangements are being made. in the health system, to make things easier for people. But in any case, we're going to have to win this diagnosis, and I'm just waiting. The head of the Economic and Business Committee to find time to go to this job.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u73	Madam President. I could have uttered every word in that sermon each time. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr, I'll agree with it all. It is a good point that we have not taken the time, but perhaps we should make the promise here that we will use the first days of the committee in January, before the assembly, to go through this. We may well do so in that way, and we may already prepare to do so. But again: I can just read a talk. A senator agrees with everything he said.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u74	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for a fine speech. The nice conversation he had with a senator named Pirata was very pleasant. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether it's really no matter what we call such taxes. The so-called environmental tax is nothing like the so-called glucoc tax. They are trying to create some kind of consumer management at homes in the country that are already paying for waste management. They're already paying taxes to be said that way, so I'd like to ask them why. A senator at the first hour sees whether he sees that we can lower other taxes to the tax and the tax and also how he can handle this new tax that affects the homes and the inhabitants of this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u75	Madam President. I don't have time to discuss the sugar tax, and I pray. A senator to respect it for the better. [[Up front.]] I'm here for that discussion because I think we agree there. There is a price to be paid for waste, a tax that we can call tax. People, homes, and businesses can avoid that taxation by returning wastes to sort and recycling. For this to be possible, any infrastructure must be present. So there's a choice. A person who is not classed, a person who does not provide waste in a way that is as damaging to the environment as possible, needs to be paid for it. If he does not class it, it is at the expense of others. I think this is an excellent concept because companies and households are self-employed to pay this fee or not. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u76	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. I haven't changed my mind about this, it's nothing but some kind of consumer tax being set up. I asked, "What do I see in my tax system?'" Is it possible to reduce taxes back? ' The senator, however, said that it was a choice and that some way it would be followed by those who did and who did not. I was curious about this, but I wondered, " Is the idea that some kind of garbage cop will be traveling to see people's barrels and see if they have been classed or not? ' I'd like to ask the Senator again, "What will be the application of this garbage tax or tax? " I never believe the Senator can see that there are windows in our barrels to see if we have classed or not. Also, I ask, " Is it not reasonable to expect other taxes to go back? ' It's just a dream to think that this tax will one day get him laid. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u77	Madam President. I hope so. A senator and Thomson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, are wrong that these taxes do not disappear. [[Up front.]] Of course he disappears. However, whether he disappears or not is in our power. That is why in my introduction, I said that it was so important that when we are discussing this kind of payment or taxes that we realized that this is not a means of earning money in the traditional sense, a income that can be arranged to reduce some other fees. The goal is to eliminate these taxes. Otherwise it will not work, and then we will need to reconsider because we are doing something wrong. I am absolutely convinced that if we do this properly and the matter is being done as it needs to be done and if it is prepared at all levels of matters, with the Ministry of the Environment, with the Ministry of Economics and the Union of Iceland, we will achieve remarkable results. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u78	Madam President. We here discuss a bill to legalize the changing of various laws due to budgets for 2020. Teaches various grasses there. First, various charges are being raised. As stated on page 19. 10 On the bill, there is a 2.5% rise in so - called centenarian taxes, including oil bills, fuel bills, and automobile bills. All these automobile costs rise by 2.5% by the year, and it has to be said at the moment that cars are clearly a special interest when it comes to government taxation. Now a carbon tax, or a carbon bill, has been put to raise the litre of gasoline by 12 or 13 k. The rate of taxation on the car is toward my judgment, and the U.S. car owner's Favour has concluded the same way. I encourage the government to consider this carefully because taxes such as these especially bite on the land, which I consider as a carbon account. For example, the city's inhabitants must drive by a longer route than they can walk and happen in the capital area. I believe that governments should seriously consider reducing tax returns on automobile owners, listening to the arguments presented by the U.S. automobile owners, and reducing these annual elevations in car owners. There's also an increase in expenses for the UN. The banks have complained about the deposit and, in fact, more charges, such as the bank tax, but the point is that in this case, this tax system is being reduced to the level of its own money. In fact, I've criticized it before from this talk chair. In this regard, though, I'd like to mention that the Central Party proposed a change to the budget that, together with the Federal Commission and the Federal Bank of Iceland, they would make a special budget. It is quite clear that when organizations like these unite, where they take part of similar assignments in certain areas, it is reasonable to follow a measure of economy and savings for a government fund. However, this is not the case, and it was not even specifically stated when the cohesion plans were introduced that no employee would be fired. I think it's the wrong approach to such a big deal. These two institutions are of great importance to us and are very important to us, yet they must require that the unity of the union be accompanied by economic management. On page 18. 10 is also discussed with us the price paid by the elderly. The bill presents a 2.5% increase in payment, which, as a result, will cost $11740. to each currency at the pressures of public pay in 2020 due to income in 2019. It is estimated that the increase will give away the state funds of about 65 million. K. extra revenues a year. Also, on page 19. 11 Regarding the cost of nursing and the cost of household involvement, the budget of the elderly is permitted to cover the expenses of nursing staff during 2020. This is a provisional document, which has been extended to provide the cost of nursing from the elderly, but the fund has never been in charge of business. It has not been successful in financing the needs of nursing and residence facilities as it is intended because contributions to it are much less than an ever - increasing need for such facilities. This is made clear in my committeeal program, which I applied to the 2nd and 3rd districts. The financial structure of a nursing home is actually far behind the need. In fact, it is very strange that health - care minister has decided to set a budget of less than 300 million. K. which were intended to be used for building up these materials and to be approved by a financial committee. This made it possible for a financial committee to try to strengthen the platform. It is very strange, however, that this money has been placed in a waiting account. The fact is that while the financial investment plans of the fund continue to be reduced, money is made from it for business purposes instead of being able to focus on investment projects, and he has no ability to perform that legal role and to be in the business. I think it is very important that the minister of health should step down on this matter and that to him a certain vision is opened in this respect because a minister does not fully acknowledge my decision that it is not the responsibility of the fund to succeed. In fact, the director of the Land Hospital has been required that the hospital could be increased if it was possible to prepare elderly homes that are present in an unacceptable situation at the hospital, no longer able to stay in their previous homes, and to wait for new homes in a nursing home or where help is provided. Perhaps, indeed, a minister has refused to shape a policy in this important language class when a so - called health conference was introduced. That policy, in fact, is a problem, and as a result, it cannot be considered a course, if that is the case. A policy is to resolve matters, not create problems, and especially for older citizens who need home and security like everyone else. It is urgent that the fund does its legal function, not this business, and must be handled. Next, I'm going to step back to the application course. The bill suggests that the cost of fixed charges is raised by 925 dollars. per month according to current law at 930k. Before 2020 It also speaks of a legal contribution to the parishes of the National Church and other religious organizations that reflect on what I believe to mention in this relationship, that a society was recently restored in this country to reimburse its members on reimbursement from government funds, as I mentioned here. It was found that there was some interest in this group and that it was able to increase members relatively rapidly because it was promised that the fee would be paid back. Then it turned out that the Society's promise to return the fee to its members was not as decisive as its superiors had promised, but as I said, the requirement had made it a significant increase in this group. I believe it is important to avoid the false record of societies as religious and biological societies where the goal seems to be to keep money from people and state funds, as it were. It is very important that the person responsible for the registration, the businessman of the north country ensures that such deception cannot be practiced by the government's registered societies. The State registry increases natural belief that there is a real religion or belief and public registration guarantees a measure of order, monitoring and confidentiality. On this basis, those interested in such a partner may see that there is a legal registration through the public, but then there is another indication, that the purpose of the society may not have been a religious or sound society. In this particular case, it seems that these things have completely failed and are sobering how these things can happen. It is very important to prevent this from happening. Since a businessman is taking care of these matters, it is important that his office, along with the Ministry of Justice, be put in the direction of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, bring up new rules designed to ensure that such activity cannot be practiced in the State's shelter when the real intent and ideologies behind the institution of such a society are not in a religious or materialistic purpose. On page 18. 13 discusses a special price for the state radio. It is suggested that a special price for State Radio will be raised at 17,500 dollars. At 17,900 K.E., i.e. magazines that hold on to general prices. The estimated additional income of the increase is about 120 million. K. every year. The next year's budget goes to a total of 4.8 billion dollars. That certainly is a large amount, and we will consider whether the State Radio is unable to perform its legal function with less cost. I think it's necessary to review that case because the State Radio is in a competitive market, competing for advertising, and the other media have fought on the back of business. Here the government radio puts up this large sum of money. I think there's a lot of need to go down into the stitches to see if there's no saving in this field. The middle class has spoken of reducing government expenses in terms of these objects and subtracting from the state's perspective. It is unusual for me to judge that so much should go into this business, and there must be a way to save in this area as well as others. The Central Party proposed a change of proposal for budget management for all schemes at a rate of 1 billion. As a result of the circumstances there, I'm sure it's safe to consider whether to adjust the state radio. The competitive market causes conflict, e.g. for the advertising market. At the end, I want to come back on the tax system, which, in fact, doesn't come up for the next year's budget. It is obvious, however, that governments are going to impose this tax. I told you before in answer to the fact that there was a ring-in-the-wall thing about this tax system. It was designed to become a reality, but then the government was reinvented with plans because of poor preparation. There were reviews that were very harsh to this tax system. It has to be said, as it is, that going off with such a tax system isn't better prepared than this. In addition, it is informative to examine e.g. It's a review of this from the company of village. That enterprise clearly believes that the purpose of this tax concept is not environmental protection or growth in recycling or recycling. Waste also feels that the purpose does not appear to be to be reducing waste, since becoming tax is a poor control tool. It is calculated that the average value of the tax on which a plough is laid is 4.93 k. over 4.38 k. if the highest tax is excluded. It's planned for fictitious tax to be 15 K. a kilogram, which means a 62% increase in prices in village. A direct increase in the population in the territory of village is estimated to be some 795 million. K. Each year, it is estimated that village cannot be associated with the expense of what every resident does. Rather, it must be collected as an additional fee for each individual. Similarly, the cost of employment is some 1.6 billion dollars. and will also see the cost paid by some means from the citizen's purse. There is a more reasonable way to achieve the target of the tax and to mention the Sorfa that what is being made possible can be reduced by e.g. To add a reward to the classes of product we don't want to go to. A kilo of waste that goes to the ground is not better, even if it has a tax of watchwords. Furthermore, sources showed that no consultations were made with stakeholders. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason said that there has been a drop from this tax system to agree with this, but I'm just saying, Madam President, that it's not the right way to bring in any ideas of taxation without any consultation and then to be retraced with these ideas because they are so unappreciated. I mention, for example. The rural groups and companies who are expected to collect this tax, but the ideas were hardly discussed, let alone that they were prepared for contributions. I urge the government to drop this tax because it's obvious that he will not return what is expected. [[The president calls.]] There are better and more efficient ways to do that, like the return fee I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u79	Madam President. There are a number of things to discuss. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, the son of Thorin, whom I could cross, but I'd like to say first with a bang. A senator in regard to the material fund of the elderly, of course, would be most appropriate if the fund of construction continued to enjoy the role it is assigned to the charter, i.e. To be prepared rather than a business. I think that at some point, the members of the General Assembly expressed their opinion. I hope, like the senator, that we will begin to see the land in the absence of this obligation. But what I want to criticize the senator in particular is what he claimed here, to the highest. A health minister would not have been successful in the affairs of older people. I think the Senator's wrong there. One of the priorities of the current highest. A health minister is especially taking care of the older ones in particular, as can be seen to make up the proposal that was published today for the health of older ones. This welcome should be one of the factors involved in reducing the need for medical care later on, as evidenced by the increase in domestic donations reported recently, and as shown by a trend in the affairs of individuals with cerebral insufficiency. I don't think there's any basis for these statements. A senator earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u80	Madam President. Thank you. Senator. I rejoice in the health of the elderly, but the Central Party moved a change proposal to put 25 million in the budget. K. This is a lawsuit. I'd like to point out why. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson voted against the proposal to set 25 million. K. in the health of the elderly. What I was primarily talking about, huh? A senator is a flow problem at the Land Hospital that has failed to clear up the situation. In particular, he looks to older people who are in unsatisfying circumstances and cannot go to their homes because of poor health. They need help in a nursing home or a home, but they are not available. This has created a real challenge for this particular group, as well as for the problems at the Land Hospital, that there is a lot to be used in other ways. This was primarily true of me when I criticized a health minister for lack of policy in all of these matters because I haven't seen anything coming from a health minister about how to solve the urgent problem of this emissions crisis at the Land Hospital. Of course, I welcome the health of the elderly. How important it is that older ones stay in their homes as long as possible! [[The president calls.]] I'm all for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u81	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. Fortunately, the majority of members of the council are already in agreement with the direction that older ones need to be well cared for. That's what's at the top too. HCPs are working on, including ... ina policy of case demented individuals identified on the Health Ministry of Health, June 24th. I can't say that much is going on. It is anticipated that in the following year, as early as February, there will be a total of 100 new homes in the capital area. In February of this year, a 40 - space nursing home was opened in the Seltjanarnes. Earlier this month, a shovel was taken to a home with 60 new compartments east of the mountain. That's how you could count it for a long time. However, in my speeches, I have repeatedly learned that if we stick to the same service arrangements in the affairs of older people, i.e. to keep adding nurses as the elderly grow instead of making a decision to try to fix the need, such as the highest standard. By means of health - related receptions and the support of home nursing, a minister will eventually have us in an arrangement where we will be in place around 8,000 medical facilities for 2050 C.E. I don't think it's what it is. A senator or others see it as a dream in the affairs of older people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u82	Madam President. Thank you. Senator. I know that he has a very good knowledge of this class, and he does not detract from the fact that he has put many good things in it. Hv. A senator stated that there was a place to open a nursing home, increase space, etc. which, of course, is enjoyable. However, a meeting with interest stakeholders in welfare services showed that the management budget was lacking. That is what is lacking, and the main thing is that we can build a nursing home. Hv. A senator specifically mentioned its Seltjanarnes. There was a problem opening it a beautiful nursing home because it was not available and it was turning to business. This is important, and the media proposed a change in the budget of some 790 million. K. a donation to meet the nursing crisis in a national language. It was a credible proposal, and unfortunately it was made. It is clear that this is the factor that we have to figure out, how we face this growing problem. Now it is not to be paid as should be done according to standards, the weight of nursing as mentioned, which has the problem of operating. Then there is the design problem, and it's hard to get people to work in this sector, so there are many problems that need to be solved. [[The president calls.]] It is important that the health authorities sit over them and find solutions in these areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u83	Madam President. I'm just gonna talk about this nice thing. Maybe it's best to get started, since I was wondering what. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason has been working on his centennial raises and state funds laws. As I said, there's no reason why they're worth what they are. In most cases, they are to be paid solely for services rendered, not money capitalism for government funds. As an example of a point under these terms, terms, fees for law-enforcement procedures, company registration fees, job rights services, employment permits and civil rights applications and patents. In addition, photocopies are set in the laws on the extra income of the state's funds and will cost 300 dollars. any page I think must be called rather bold when talking about fees due to actual costs. I understand at the head of the Economic and Business Committee that the message has been received and the meeting will be time for this in January. It's very good, and I'm glad. I'd like to have a wider discussion on Iceland's tax policy. Although there is a danger of my repeating myself, I have been saying very similar things in the past few years, in order to save time to refer to my previous talks on the subject. I take out the central point that Iceland's tax policy is still based on the archaic ide that the role of taxes is to finance government funds and, to a limited extent, to promote equality. Better examination shows that taxes are primarily responsible for increasing demand for crowns and removing them at the same time. It reduces inflation, and certainly there is an equation factor in it, but an ongoing defective analysis causes us to examine the tax policy from the wrong end. It is good to keep this key in mind when we sail into a down cycle in the economy, for perhaps not all of us agree on the impact of government spending on downturns. So let's use it as a clean debt of 619 billion dollars, about 21% of gross domestic product. If we don't take loans and funds with it, we have a debt ratio of about 30% of GDP. In comparison, it puts us between Guatemala and Saudi Arabia in the penitentiary. Most Western countries have a much higher debt level than we do. If we put the government case in a proper context, it might be said that now there is an enormous amount of room for rethinking where the tax falls, even reducing it in some areas, but at the same time, there is an increase in expenses. Lately, the Navy has repeatedly decreased its control height. Many people have found that it was good because they had quite high management height. If you mark Stephanie Kelton, a professor of economics who studies public financial policy, the decrease in the control interest will not contribute to subtraction because companies are more likely to maintain their hands through the down cycle despite this growth stimulus. Rather, new loans are expected to be largely a reimbursement of people or businesses who are bored by advanced interest levels. I'm not in itself criticizing that steering growth is down, that's very positive, but it is rather critical that it is built up in the basis of the government that it alone will shrink down and will reduce its depth, which is actually based on ideologies, which have been repeatedly demonstrated to fail. If the goal was to reduce the decline, it might have been desirable to increase substantial funds for innovation, as I mentioned in a discussion on the budget bill in my time, and I mean, above all, what was done in financial matters. Similarly, the downturn rate is good enough to change, so it continues to create demand for the currency while relief is done by innovation, innovation, and development. It is crucial that governments such as Iceland's government have learned that the limiting factor in the economy, and certainly in the affairs of the government and the system, is not the amount of money in circulation, which can be controlled by both version and induction. The focus is the production capacity of society, and downturns arise because of various factors. I'm not going to trace it here, because it's the material for a really big lecture, and hopefully it'll be for someone who's better informed than I am. Substitutions mean that a lower share of production capacity in the community is new. More industrial, office, and shopping are standing empty, more machines are standing unused, and more are staying at home without a job. There is a simple solution. The government's tax policy, government financial policies, and money policies could be used in order to get people to work, start machines, and put up facilities for use. In the large context, this aspect of the context has not been discussed too much because it is always treated with the budget and the string of so-called, which is a collection of laws about the change of various laws because of financial laws, such as a phenomenon with a very limited link to the rest of the economy. This is especially evident in the fact that on a few pages an economic basis based on models not even taking into account the impact Kingdom spending will have on the economy itself. I have been inclined to criticize the laws on public financial matters for not seeing the overall picture, and there are many problems in public financial matters that we have discussed here during the last few days. All of us, however, must be able to agree that it is an excellent idea that public finances are being expelled in a balanced way. It will be best by setting motivation correctly and not being done with this bill. At the same time, it should be ensured that the production capacity of society is not falling into and out of gear according to wood management, but rather the maintenance of a more dense combination of production capacity, not always to the top because there is room for fluctuations and changes in use that need to be maintained. Apart from this criticism, which, of course, is critical of the current tax system and dominant thinking in these matters, there is in itself nothing else that I think is worth criticizing in this particular bill. Tom Lehrer said in his day: "One who asks stupid questions gets stupid answers. If the question is, Is this a good change in the tax system? might be the best answer to the Chinese word, as Robert Pirsigs's view is that the question itself is wrong. The more accurate question is: Is the current tax system working in harmony with the actual underlying economy and I think the answer to it is no?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u84	Madam President. We'll talk here at 2nd. a bill to legalize the changing of various laws because of financial laws, sometimes called a tape worm. I'm not gonna repeat that as a dog. Óli Björn Kárason, president of the Economic and Business Committee, went over the past as part of the committee's list of the majority. Still, I would like to think about a few things. The committee briefly reviews the provisional regulations on the cost of a currency pensioner, who has actually been on law for far too long and too long to be available to change. It's been, I think, since 2009. As we have seen, the committee reiterates the importance of completing the work required to implement this preliminary principle and to place permanent hairs on it so that microorganisms will be able to improve their benefits. This is of utmost importance, not only in connection with the income and charge of the State, but also in the context of allowing microsurgents not only to improve their interests but also to improve the self - image they may have by being able to earn money and affect their own way of life. There has been some discussions about the tax. I suspect more senators may want to mention that, too. I would like to refer to an article as the highest. Environment Minister wrote in the June issue of News. Since a minister tores well why it was so important. In this regard, I want to remind you that we're not only talking about sentencing taxes but also about the so-called F-gas. F-gaps, on the other hand, are responsible for 7% of the emissions guaranteed by the Paris Treaty by Iceland and the Icelandic government. This is of utmost importance. I have to say, if there is anything that can be called a capital payer, that is exactly what turns toward doing something that can lead to not only their own success but also the future benefits of society and the future benefits of the earth. This is important. However, as mentioned in the Committee, there are unsolved details about how we manage the tax work and therefore, if possible, the tax needs to be done more closely with the rural communities and to provide a bill as soon as possible to ensure that the next year's deposit will start. This is especially important in view of what may include. It has been observed to the village that it is the very business of the country that is responsible for most of the watch. Therefore, the enterprise's special interest should be to try to reduce the price, since the price is not only environmentally important, but also a matter of waste. It's a matter of unnecessary waste. With the threat, we are disposing of valuable things, and this cannot be a good use of the good things entrusted to us. I also, Mr. President, would like to mention just the birthworm and the insurance bill, the adjustment of what will be due to the birthor and the stock of the stocks. This may seem to be a minor factor, but this is really important because it is just a matter of living for an operation and meeting changes where it is being made to make sure that the maternity will be filled, and the increase in maternity will be funded. This is important. However, what may not be stated, I do not talk about in 2021 or 2022, is that as the birthworm grows for 12 months, there may be an even further change in the composition of the currency, as there is expected to be a further increase in delivery costs in 2021 over 2020. I think there's a reason to mention this in an escape. Then, as discussed earlier, only about how Iceland's taxes are. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason came with us. In Iceland, there was a state of high taxes. I want to pray. Congress to remember with me that it is not by chance. We here have established the arrangement in this community that we use taxes to ensure that everyone's interests can be equal, that people have access to health care, access to welfare systems. The countries that do their best in these areas are just what some would call a high tax kingdom. But I think a very normal name for such a state and such a species of communities is a welfare state. Well-counsel unions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u85	Mr. President. As we have seen, we'll talk about it. That may be one of the main points I wanted to focus on, in view of my words. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, the son of Thorin, and the voice. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, the son of Sveinsson, was on a tax charge. I'd just like to heighten the fact that we are standing in Iceland, as in other countries, in the face of unprecedented climate change. It's quite simple to say, but it's harder to do, but we have to be able to use any means available to handle this huge project. One way is by means of the very tax system. It's not a Reverend idea. This is a way that has given success in many parts of the world, especially in Europe. For example, all the other countries have used this tax to achieve success when it comes to land production. In addition, this is one of the measures presented in the government Action Programme for climate change in September 2018. In fact, it is being revised now because we must constantly be on guard and try to succeed in this. Why is this important action? First of all, this may not be the case at all, but as a result of the waste disposal of greenhouse gases, the absolute best available option has been to treat waste. Not only is it enough, but it can be said, as shown in the case of the day. A senator, a colleague of mine, earlier, says that 7% of the emissions on the direct responsibility of the Icelandic government can be attributed to waste. In fact, if we dig even deeper into it, we can argue that from the wastes that are being made, 90% of greenhouse gases, from 7% of them, will come. So if we're going to stop the climate, we're going to have a major problem. Doing this work is a major challenge. However, we need not worry that this is a tax that thus adds to the human load, for as a result, it is a tax. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason came in, it's the right consumers who have it completely in their hands whether it's going to be an increase in the amount of spells or not. In fact, the main business involved is to dress up when it comes to these matters. In fact, consumers and businesses have the idea of not paying taxes by ensuring that waste is introduced into a way other than the cost. In fact, the nature of the tax is that it destroys itself. This is not something that can be relied on for the future. And I'd like to remind you of what we're talking about in the Committee to Find out more part of the Economic and Business Committee we're dealing with here, by permission of the President: It is important to consider that, in addition to the introduction of environmental taxes, we are concerned about building timbers in order to ensure that the tax will provide the desired results, i.e. to improve the systems, recycling and recycling of waste. It is natural that the income of the state funds from the tax will be used, at least In part, to necessaryinvestment in this respect. So we look forward to a brighter time by being able to do better in these matters. Then I'd like to know that as I told you earlier, it's not a sheikh idea. And not only that, but the ideologies behind the sentennial tax base on international environmental rights, i.e. Soils that are contaminated, sometimes called the pollution - saving rule. It is very urgent, not only in the light of climate change but also in the way we handle things, that we begin to reduce. Since we cannot shrink back, we must try to find all the ways to use it again in some way. If we are not able to use it again, at least it has to be returned to recycling. For example, a red plastic product is returned to a new form of plastic. And if we don't do that, we need to replace it in some way and one way in it, not necessarily the best but one way, is to burn energy. The last option is always to grow old. Actually, it's too cheap to grow in Iceland. Other routes are not really competitive in the context. I reiterate that this is one of the ways we should use to stem the unprecedented warming we face. We are in good orbit with it, and I look forward to seeing this matter succeed when it becomes more successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u86	A respectable president. You can't discuss this case, the income raise of the state's funds, without discussing the fact that Iceland has become a high tax country, the highest tax power of the state, along with Sweden, in comparison with the OECD states. I thought it would be nice to say something earlier. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, president of the Economic and Business Committee, agreed with me in this analysis, and it's a simple fact. We all know the history and the reasons for this. We went through unprecedented economic collapses and followed by a huge increase in taxes in many areas to ensure high - level subsidies of the government fund. There was a very poor economic and household at that point, but the argument for those huge tax increases back then was, of course, temporary. The government's tax stocks had been so drawn together during the crisis that it would not be avoided in terms of raising taxes so much as to have been unscrupulous. One of the fundamental lessons that we drew from the economic management of the earlier years was that it would be necessary to handle the financial funds of state to ensure that such things would not happen again. The fact is, of course, that they repeated themselves. What we did, and what this government is primarily responsible for, the owner has increased national spending by 200 billion in the first two years or in three years if we include in 2020, was to support these tax increases instead of taking advantage of the opportunity to reduce taxes or to have any tax reduction when the economy was to slow down again. It has, in fact, been warned that the entire working time of this government would slow down, that the economic presidents that the government worked with in its financial programmes would be far too optimistic. She increased the cost of this process and thus promoted tax increases. There is no room in the financial affairs now when the economy is getting cold to reduce taxes, to provide the necessary oxygen for the job life now. Unfortunately, this government's greatest achievement, in case of achievements, and that's why we're going to live with it in the coming years that Iceland will become a high tax state. It might be asked: Would it not have been advisable to show a greater body of counsel? Of course, the government's eulogy is: What is the visible result of all these expenses? We still have the same problems in the health system, the same complaints when it comes to the terms of the pensioner and the disability pensioner, continued financial resources in public. Although slightly enhanced, they remain well below long - term average, far below need and predictable for e.g. The high transport improvements in the capital area need to be financed by additional taxes because there is no room for that in the government. It's a terrible place. This is simply a sign of a mismanagement of government financial management, the obvious manifestations of the government's delirium filter in financial expenses. I'm sure we'll be able to deal with that in the next election. But what a sin it is not to have room for tax doctors! Although the government scurrys from the planned rate reductions of 2021 in the debate on the budget now, let's ask ourselves, " What do I have to do with my taxes when it comes to them? ' In the modified section proposals, it is happy that the estimated price tax should be postponed. Now I make it clear that I am a prisoner of this payer condition. These are the environmental costs we should take advantage of to change our behavior to deal with the fundamental problems of climate change, no doubt about it. But we must be careful to prepare, and this was simply not done in this case. There were no conversations with the communities that were supposed to do this. There was no preparation necessary for the cost to work. Therefore, I hope that the government will use the time up until the next budget talk, when the upcoming proposals for a reimbursement before the council, to be careful to prepare, as this is, of course, a very important factor. Waste disposal in this country is simply a disgrace. We are still very close to the commitments we have made over the past few years, and it is very important that these matters be handled by a film - making challenge. I am personally completely convinced that the price this is a reasonable way to change the behavior of both households and businesses into this. However, the preparation must also be carefully considered. It also brings the attention to environmental taxes, such as the green tax. No doubt we will have to resort to them further in order to deal with the climate crisis. These include the carbon expenditures that still exist, compared with the advice of the World Bank of Credits e.g., far below the standards that are believed to be required to change real behavior. Then we must be careful, in order not to create an exact opposition to such bankruptcy, that environmental expenditures should be used to change the tax system, and not to increase tax returns, that we should counter taxes. How wise it is to use the tax system to change eating habits in this way, to use the tax system for us to achieve our goals in climate. But it must also be shown by action, in order to be sure that other taxes are reduced, that they are merely taxes to alter the consumption behavior, not the tax to the simple collection of money for the state's profit. The danger, of course, is that by such means the government will simply undermine the support of such a tax system. The thought of green taxes is absolutely correct. This is in simple terms: Infested cities. But it is not to be profited by a trust fund. It will then be necessary to reduce other taxes in a visible way and to slow down other costs, such as. worth tax or income tax against such taxes. Sadly, the government's green tax accounting, if we can say so, is that the government's net income is far beyond the budgets or expenses set up by the government, including the can be used by subsidies on or discounting your imports or remunerations on eco-efficient vehicles or investments in infrastructure. There's a big leaning on it. Unfortunately, these green taxes are the net - income industry for the state's funds. I think we need to draw a line into the sand and say, "This can't be done. If we are going to use these expenditures that would occur in the coming years so that we will be able to live up to our commitments in climates and thus make a difference in the balances, then the public will have to be able to accept, as it were, not tax increases, but tax changes. We're going to change the tax system to work with us on climate issues, not to raise taxes further. I'm afraid that's enough for that. Once again, this government has promoted the post-traumatic rise in taxes. There will be a lot of work to wind down from the government's delirium to handle public funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u87	V.E.G. President. While we here discuss the income side of the budget, it will not be possible to first put them in line only with the spending side, for today the government has presented the budget - and indeed it has approved - that assumes huge government expenditures compared to what we have used in recent years, in fact, so much that in six years since the present peak. The secretary of finance made the first financial contributions that he did very well, as did many other things, which have increased by about half of the government's expenses. Government expenditures in Iceland have increased by half in six years. We can imagine if in 2013, the preparation of the 2014 budget would have been possible to increase half how much changes could have been made, how many good projects could have been done, and how much structural changes could have taken place in their shelters. Now, I'm not saying that it would have been wise to increase the amount of government spending by 50 percent, but this puts things in perspective. We must ask ourselves, " What has the community gotten for this huge increase in government spending? ' True, there have been significant increases, and this is quite a part of this, but a reminder of the importance of the State considering how it defends its money and does it wisely. But has the general population experienced changes during the six years in accordance with the vast increase in government spending? I doubt it. Unfortunately, the system seems to continue to be in control. The amount of money in it is increased without the ability of the system to be fixed, the opportunity to make use of the financial resources that the government fund has to better use. Of course, money has also increased, but it is more important to consider how it will be used if you do not want to reduce the income level, if you don't want to use the opportunities to reduce tax increases, but, on the contrary, as we now see in this financial bill, increase in a number of ways in the public. In this context, it is interesting to look to the experience of Ira, our neighbor, and our uncle. The Irish have stressed the reduction of taxes, the subsidies of public and businesses, now over a period of time. They, like the Icelanders, were badly out of financial crisis over a decade ago, but Ireland has become one of the richest countries in the world, a country once known as a poor country in Western Europe. The Irish have more land production on you than do for the making of Switzerland, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, and so on. It was achieved, not by new fees and new taxes, but by efficient systems and encouraging tax systems. The financial bill we've been discussing now, and we've got part of it, is not the result of creating an stimulating tax system, a manufacturing system for Iceland, a system that promotes valuables. No, there is an increase in taxes, and there is a wide range of paying and in no way that makes much sense. We may at times have tax increases, but I don't think the suggestions we're discussing here are designed to encourage society in a positive way. The insurance bill is one thing. In fact, it is to cut down insurance and to begin fulfilling government promises from some five years ago on the reduction of that price, but insurance costs need to be reduced more. It is a form of tax that is highly discouraging. Special tax should have people at work, should hire more people, the tax on companies that depend on human resources, but less on companies that can get away with a relatively small number of people than on the use of technology. In all of the fourth industrial revolution and the importance of human beings and innovations, there was no doubt that such a high price is being paid to employ people and to use them. Then it came as a surprise - I find it unexpected in the light of experience - that this government decided to return to the three - step tax system. This is unexpected because not many years have passed, in fact, only a few, since the highest. Present finance minister, including secretary of finance, rejoiced that he was simplifying the tax system and reducing the three to two levels of tax. In other words, the tax system is reinvented by increasing the number of steps and is presented as a tax reduction because of the low level, the new step, the lower tax per cent while taxation is being increased in the way. This arrangement is designed not only to complicate the system but also to reduce valuable creation and work, and hence it is an unwise arrangement, such as the Supreme Court. During his time, a minister of finance explained that he attacked a simple tax system that is now being complicated. Then there's all the new fees. First, I'm going to mention the so - called centenarian fees that are now increasing according to the price of inflation. There we see another reversal from the previous course, for it was decided at the time that the state should end in the inflation process, stop laying the line on prices each year. This was started first by reducing the centenarians'increases, and it began that the State would not attack on the centenarian increase unless it was possible in the remaining cases that it would be necessary to ensure enough income to live up to the service that is appropriate in each case. Now that people have returned to their former position and raised their dollar bills, it affects the inflation and the debt of their homes, etc. I can see in your bill that people don't expect very direct effects from these remunerations. But then it is overlooked that when the State puts its lines by raising its expenses, it will immediately have a long effect on the price chain, so to speak. We saw examples of this last year and in a recent meeting when the State raised charges, when various members saw compelled to increase prices for products and services, with reference to the State's rise. So real price effects are far greater than implied in the bill. And, of course, new fees are added. They've been doing this in recent years. Special attention is attracted to the so - called green fees or green taxes, which in some way are due in the power of the name, with the emphasis green, to be better than any other curses imposed on the common people. It was interesting to hear it. The head of the Economic and Business Committee earlier, what? paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, explains that taxation can be an effective means of achieving certain objectives in behavior, in order to form the tax tax, to influence the behavior of companies and individuals. This is a completely new approach to the Independence Party, the consumer control taxes, which I thought they were not on the basis of their core policy. But now this is used as a special support for tax and payment. And these are no small fees to form in the case of the sentennial tax. I know there is a delay in his induction, but it will continue to attack this taxation next time we have a chance. But like a dog. The head of the Economic and Business Committee declared - and I still want to use this opportunity to commend you. Chairman for postponing at least tax induction; it is certainly worth commending - having this tax, this price, led to the public, just in the village, the home, paying 795 million. K. In addition to what he is paying now and the $ 1,600 billion companies. We are then told that the goal of this tax is that it will not eventually have to be paid because the user control and new behavior that it is intended to achieve. Again, the fact that such arguments have not usually come to the front of the independence party. What, though, is to happen in the meantime when there are no resources available for human waste disposal? Hv. paritaprevir Although Óli Björn Kárason noted that these measures do not exist, they will not be there next year. They will not be ready when the government intends to drive through this series of payoffs. In fact, this is not the government's income raise, as noted, but the penal tax, another tax in the public for just being, for buying food and other things that inevitably have to be disposed of, or for reaching their way, between places. It is, of course, still increasing all possible fees for going between positions and the level of ideas in those areas that have been high, have been a long but growing one. There are charges and taxes with all kinds of names, miles tax, special mile tax, fuel fees and special fuel costs, carbon bills, and the others, and these green fees that lay on the public for their existence. This isn't a good idea, Mr. President. This is not a good way to reach goals, to develop environmental goals. This is a way that primarily takes the bite of business groups of society because the nature of this kind of pay is actually a sort of nose tax. Everyone needs to eat, everyone needs to buy certain necessities, everyone needs to be disposed of garbage, everyone has to get his way, both the low and the high income, but the price is just as much as anyone needs to buy fuel, the car, or other products. It's about extremely left-handed and illogical tax policy, which I know. I had actually planned to list some of the remuneration and tax increases presented here but I see that I won't have time to do that. I have to be content to discuss this in general. The overall picture is that at the same time that this government presents the state's high cost, at the same time that it has increased its government spending half in six years, while it runs the state with a tilt for the first time for seven years, it is to reimburse the unwise fees and taxes that are designed to reduce the value and punish all the people of the country just for their existence.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u88	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator who may not have been surprised, was so in tune with what has been heard from the corner of the Middle Party. In spite of the extraordinary success in terms of government money, the media does not seem to see the benefit. What I wanted to ask you. A member of the council here is similar to what I asked. paritaprevir Birgir Þórarinsson that the other day, the policy of the Central Party is already in place. You see, I've heard from this chair that it may be that the best conditions we could work on are e.g. Digging for one's own oil, and some more of that stuff. I've only heard criticism from the Middle Party's series when it comes to ideas about green taxes. Before then, why? A senator when he believes it is a left course. I don't know if it's left or right, but the city that's contaminated, and the city that uses, I think, may as well have a place on the right side of the center and on the left. But my question to why. The senator is: What is the policy of the Central Party when it comes to environmental issues? Does the Central Party support Iceland's participation in the Paris Convention and meet its requirements?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u89	Mr. President. The general practice of thanking talks and objections has begun, sometimes without cause, but now I think thank you for it. A member in particular for a good inquiry, although, of course, only outside the material, about the Paris meeting and the like, but not so. In the environment, it is extremely important, absolutely necessary to look at the overall picture and the overall impact of human action. Sacrificing the public for being and attacking the consumer management as suggested is not the best way to succeed. Hv. A senator says that he has heard that we speak for drilling oil. I'm just surprised if it's showing up. A member of the Independence Party is opposed to Iceland's using its possible oil and gas sources. In fact, I think it's particularly important that we use these fountains in view of the fact that fuel in working volumes is likely largely gas, and few have been more effective in fighting greenhouse gas emissions than the increased use of natural gas at the expense of coal. The United States, which has often been criticized for not participating in the global environment, has been able to produce results in the past few years, at least in the time of President Obama, by the large inflation of natural gas at the expense of coal burns. Iceland contributed a great deal if it could increase the supply of natural gas so that the nations today, like China, could use Icelandic gas as a substitute for the massive incineration of coal and even the Germans could burn too much coal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u90	A respectable president. So this is the second time I ask. Central Party members whether they support the Paris Convention and that Iceland participates in the goals set out there, and I have not yet received an answer. Hv. paritaprevir So Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson can still answer my questions about his vision and the direction of the Central Party to meet the Paris Convention and fulfill the commitments of Iceland's forces by signing up the Paris Convention. If I didn't forget, then what would I do? At the time of the Paris Summit, a candidate of prime minister was made up of this decision. I have to admit, a respectable president, that I have found it hard to grasp the vision of the Central Party when it comes to environmental events, and I'm sort of inclined that they don't support the Paris convention and what it says because it seems like I haven't yet been able to get it in this sermon. This time, gas and oil were the last to be spoken of. When I asked why. Birgir Dírgi Þórarinsson said that the other day, he pointed out whether we should not see what the Indians and the Chinese were doing. All the big and big questions, but the question is: Does the Central Party support the Paris Conference and Iceland live up to the commitments it made?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u91	Mr. President. Wait a minute. I'm sorry I didn't finish answering the Paris question. You're right. A senator says, I think I have scribbled this document and confirmed Iceland's involvement in such a way that, of course, we will work on the policy of the agreement. The problem is that the methods used to achieve these goals are not particularly likely to succeed. More importantly, although the aims of the Paris Convention were achieved, which would be the first time to achieve some of the human targets, Kyoto, Rio and all of this in climate and environment, that would have very little effect. It takes a completely new thought on how we're dealing with the environment. The solution is not punishment taxes on people for living their lives. The solution is positive motivation, science, technology. As in the past century, the grand pollution problems of large cities and including cities were solved by humans. Here in Reykjavík, pollution was a great problem. Just as automobile pollution was reduced by 99% less than half a century, reasonable measures in climate change can be done to greatly reduce emissions. But then we need to take advantage of the opportunities, not of virtual action such as shoveling into a ditch, which only increases the emissions of methadone, which is 23 times more harmful than carbon dioxide, but by methods that really work. I'm very interested in these matters because I gave almost all of my talk at the First National Assembly in these issues, the climate and the environment, and there I pointed to solutions. It's online, and I'm telling you. A senator to find out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u92	Mr. President. I recommend to the Committee to conduct a European Commission hearing on the basis of a review of a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee on a bill to correct the switch to income tax laws and public payment laws. It's a spell. 496. As mentioned in the opinion of the committee, however, the committee met with representatives of several parties and also received reviews from several sources, although not many. The bill suggests a system modification of the individual income tax system, and changes will be implemented in steps. When they are fully implemented at local payment in 2021 and the pressures of income taxes due to earnings in that year, they will ensure a rate of 21 billion. a decrease in tax a year. The changes are aimed at achieving a relatively greater benefit than other groups and are part of government support in contracting a general labour market earlier this year. The bill expects a three-stage tax system to be introduced. A new lower baseline level due to the intake of 2020 will be 20.6% and 17% will be reduced in 2021. The baseline level will then be 5.5 percentage points below the current base level. The between-stage income tax becomes 22.75% in the coming year and increases to 23.5% in the following year. The upper level will remain unchanged, i.e. 31.8%. As everyone knows, local tax spending is on average 14.44% irrespective of income. In the coming year, income tax will decrease by 5.5 billion dollars. But the major tax doctors will be 2021, 21 billion in the year. ... asI usedto say. This is about Ten percent of the government's earnings on income tax. The majority of the total reduction in income taxation by individuals during the terms of the government is therefore estimated to be 31.6 billion. The system changes expected in the bill are a second step in the global re-examination of individual income taxes as well as improvements systems. At the end of the New Year, there was a 1 percent increase in heart rate over a legal reference and a 3.7% increase in step points instead of a 6% increase that would otherwise have occurred. This led to meet the lascivious ones. 1st matter of 5th Figures 1st. 66. g. income taxation laws require that the sum of the stepmarks of the income tax strain should be adjusted at the beginning of each year in proportion to the increase in pay index between the start of the year and the end of the next year. In 1st. The bill to correct various measures in accordance with the terms of budgeting for 2019 from the last legislation Council - that was 2nd case in 149. A majority of the economic and business committees mentioned in the Committee on the matter that the defect of the proposal was obvious, includingUnable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: Since the remuneration rate increases, without exception more than the index price, more taxpayers are moving to the top stage of the income tax, because the budget is increased less according to the consumer's salary than the pay sheet. As a result, more and more people with intermediate income pay income taxes at the top and finally, unchanged, are moving closer to the top level of the income tax. It's just a matter of fact, topv. President, how long that would take. Thus, the change would create a kind of built - in system of tax expansion. In view of this, as well as the fact that the Committee had been informed that the Ministry had considered to introduce new criteria for changing the amount of individual discounts and stairmarks, a greater proportion of the changes required in Article 1. The bill would be temporary until one year old, but it would not be established in the law. The suggestion for the greater part was 1st par. Hence, the bill reassigned, while provisional regulations added income tax laws that the amount of stepmarks at the beginning of 2018 should be proportioned to the change in the index price of 2018. The more part emphasized the importance of reimbursement of the income tax system, to synchronize methodology on the increase in the amount of individual payoffs and tax steps, while preventing an endogenous spontaneous increase in tax burden. In the 3rd. The bill under discussion is presented here to negotiate the terms of the temporary regulations on income taxes, which will be extended about two years. The introduction of new groundlevels to income tax is likely to add weight to the built-in tax increase process to the number of intermediate incomeers. The greater part of the section expresses frustration that new rules for updating funds have not been developed as planned. A paper with the bill shows that the goal is to make changes in the future in terms of the development of the prices and production of workers. It should, in turn, ensure that the substitution properties of the tax system remain over a longer period of time without weakening its economic effect. But, unfortunately, export of the algorithm is not available. The more important factor, the greater the importance of working on the necessary changes in this state, is to be accelerated. It is strongly emphasized by the National Association of Iceland that there will be no reimbursement in the development of revenues and personality discounts, which play a major role in the increase in the tax burden of the busiest groups has been far greater than their payoffs during the past 560 years. BSRB recommends that the standards that will be used in the future be explained but not caused by an annual dispute. The majority agree with these indications of the European Union of Iceland and BSRB. In the bill, child-improvement centres are increasing above the price-presidents of the budget, by more than 8.3%. Thus, a single parent's decline increases from 3.6 million to 3.9 million a year, becoming child support for a single parent who earns all his income and pays 4% of the debt to a pension fund unsatisfying up to 338,542. per month. The couple's boundaries rise from 7.2 million to 7.8 million. As a result, child care will remain intact up to a total of 67,000 dollars. The sum of the months was four percent of the debt paid in a pension fund. It is estimated that as the budget for child - welfare costs increases by 1 billion in 2020, according to budgets for 2019 C.E. Thus, total pay to the jury is estimated to be 13.1 billion. Increased child - welfare expenditures, like system changes in the income tax system, are part of the government's actions to support the biographies of the labour market agreements. The majority suggest changes in the ratios of a- and b-coma 5. The bill for correction ends with the requirement for the payment of public remuneration in 2021, as reflected in Article 1. The bill. The requirement for local payment and the pressures of public pay in 2020 will be made on temporary tax laws and on the payment of public pay conditions, as per Article 4. and 7th pars. The bill. Then the extra item will suggest a change to Article 8. The bill. First, there is no need for additional articles of the bill than 2 gr. Get already valid and then contribute to the greater part, so that the overall value of the bill will be measured on January 1, 2020. Second, a greater proportion of the items contribute to Article 3. Section 8. failure to remove end is not required to cancel the validation of Article 1 and 5. that will be considered on the value of the laws which the bill articles turn into preliminary rules of the law. At the same time, 6. The bill will receive a value on January 1, the second, where a new income tax step will already take effect. According to this, the greater part suggests that the bill will be approved by the changes I have made and other changes mentioned in the Committee opinion. Under the heading, write why. The men of the assembly, who stand here, Óli the Björn of Kárason, Briven the Brynjar of Níelsson, Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, Silja the Dögg of Gunnarsdóttir, and Birg the Birgir of Ármannsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u93	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a members of Committee 1 less part of the Economic and Business Committee, but the 1st small part represents the members of the Committee to Re-Elect. 1st smaller items have previously pointed to, including in committee figures, that in the years prior to the economic fall, there has been a dramatic increase in the number of countries, much more than in other Western lands, and then reduced in the collapse. This includes: published in the fall of 2017, Ólafsson and Kristjánsson Sölvi, U.S.A. It shows that about two - thirds of the increase in the rate of collapse is explained by the high capital gains in the upper part of the income. The majority of the remaining third is explained by the change in government policy on taxes and benefits. After a collapse, this was totally reversed by the growing equation of one third of the government's policy on taxes and on two thirds of subsidies. Now, like the 2013 action of the two governments, the trend has been restored and the government's actions contribute to a growing inequities. This can be read from the bottom line. Financial and economic minister to the UN chairman's questions on national property and income in 2018, that's a 97th case from this council, on the 150th. That's where even the two of them come from. up to the richest 0.1% of the respondents had a $220.2 billion. at the end of 2018, a total of 238 families Their money grew by 23.6 billion dollars. in 2018. Since 2010 the wealthiest of 0.1% of the population has increased by 98 billion by 68%. In answer to the highest. Secretary of finance also states that the 5% richest Icelanders, a total of 11,900 families, had their own budget of 1,864 billion dollars. ... forthelastyear. That's 218 billion bucks. more than was due by the end of 2017. Since 2010, this group has increased by 970 billion. At the end of the last year, the richest 5% owned 40.8% of all the country's own money, which means that the 95% family in the country had 59.2%. When considering this information, remember that the wealthiest groups of the country's population are greatly underestimated in response to the highest standards. Ministers, for all stocks are counted on merits, not market prices. Mr. President. Governments have controls that, at the same time, can soften and intensify the balance of income and possessions in society. The government groups prefer to weaken them, rather than effectively apply them to their equations. ASI's central management reports that the ASSI tax assessment study shows that the tax burden of remuneration in the last 20 years has increased and much more as the income is lower. In conclusion by the Center on the budget bill at a meeting on September 18th. said, with the permission of the president: The ASI mass management rejoices that there is finally some new government proposals to change the income tax system that has been eagerly awaited. The changes, however, are coming too late in the pockets of pay people, and governments are failing to let those who are able to pay a fair favor to society in order to ensure adequate funding for well - being and community living. ASI also, with its demand for reform of the income tax system, has emphasized that change will not be used to reduce the income of the state's funds, reduce its ability to provide welfare services and the necessary structure of community infrastructure and/or to increase the emphasis on user costs and nasal taxes, which reduce the equality of the tax system. The first memory items agree with the ASI and criticism that the income tax system, child benefits, and housing support are not used systematically to the equation. The same can be said of a fiscal tax lower than any other country in the North and big property taxes to work against an increase in possessions that is growing in this country. Many people still live in unsatisfactory conditions. The changes in the housing system need to be guided by the interests of the worker and guided by his authority rather than by the interests of his employees. Government housing support is weak, not in accordance with government declarations. Government tax policy indicates how they want to live in the public and how governments want to see society developing. The role of the tax system and its effect on property and income distribution are just as important as its income share. Similarly, French economist Thomas Piketty in his best - selling book, published in 2014, suggests that there will be step - apart financial taxes to increase the equation in the world. He believes that the tax system is the most effective instrument in the community to achieve the goal of reaching people's health. The OECD, OECD, published a December 2014 report showing that there is an increase in economic growth. These research and other respected studies show that more equations lead to more fairer societies and to economic and economic prosperity. If governments want to settle this country's game in order to increase their social trust, both the tax and the improvement systems need to be used in a powerful way. The main conclusion of a report by the Norwegian Minister, published in April last year is that increasing inequities in the North countries can be explained by failure to increase the pay rate in recent years. If the government wanted to work on a larger scale, they should handle this and make sure that welfare services are set free or available for a very mild price. The tax system changes that would contribute to the greater recovery in the country would be e.g. more tax levels, which also include all the revenues, step-separated capital tax and gross tax on significant property beyond human housing, as well as an increase in the importance of child care and housing benefits. The changes in recent years in child-replacement and housing improvements, worth tax and income tax, as well as the de-extraction of resource taxes, have all had a negative impact on the average in this country. The results of international studies showing a negative impact on communities with Icelandic and national analyses that show a clear impact on the balance activities of the Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir government should provide sufficient evidence to compromise policy over the past few years and to avoid reproducing the mid-discriminate. It's long time to revise the tax laws. In this regard, both the income sector and the income balance role must be considered. Some articles have been changed many times since the implementation of income tax laws, No. 90/2003, and provisional measures are multiple. In the 3rd. The bill under this discussion is suggested that temporary legislation on income taxes should be extended about two years. As a result, the currency boundary between tax steps and personal discounts will remain based on the index price of consumers, not on a more just salary. With the approved provision, the built-in increase in tax gain will be extended if the pay date exceeds the previous year of 2019,2021. A lower share of 1 thinks that a pay number in these materials should be used instead of a consumer prescription and that the same should be true of changes in children, housing and growth improvements. Mr. President. The child - reform system has been clearly weakened in recent years, and thousands of children's families have fallen out of the system. It's the ASI review. to indicate that the tax burden of those whose income is at the lower quarter limit of the population of two children is now about 1 percent lower than that of the childless couples with the same income. The tax burden of the income - greater pair with and without children is the same. This shows that the equal role of the child - welfare system is not new, as it would seem, for the International Cash Fund's proposals of poverty to a family are a model to the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter rather than to regard the Norwegian states as a child supporter's status as compared to those without children. ASI reports that housing security, practical housing costs, and equal access to housing markets were among the main focus of the labor movement in negotiations with the government on the implementation of collective agreements. Spring. Despite government declarations in relation to collective agreements, the bill expects housing support to decline the actuality between years and schedules, it is expected that this will be continued. Overall, housing support through the growth reform system has reduced the absolute value by more than 70% since 2013 and by the number of growth reformed households by some 27,000 between 2013 and 2018. This has resulted in a peak of interest levels that have been virtually unchanged since 2010. As a result, the system supports fewer and fewer homes. Young people who have little money in their homes now receive little or no support through the growth system. A reduction in interest results in wiping out the gains of low-payers with little money in their housing for changes in the income tax system during 2020, so that tax taxes, when taken into consideration the tools are actually increasing. ASI also notes that while developing funds for interest during the past decade, co-founding the general housing system and the growth of the building of the cost-of-employment potential, contributions to growth have been added to the same amount of money. The Agency's budget has thus not been made up of additional housing contributions as it was intended but, in effect, paid with a reduction in another form of support. The situation is to be maintained in 2020 despite the marvelous promises of the government that prove to be empty. Mr. President. The administrative part suggests that social security and disability pensions, in a row significantly increase less than the lowest salary and the terms of pensioners get worse compared to other groups. Social security pensions are suggested to increase by 3.5% at the beginning of 2020, while the lowest pay will increase according to collective agreements by 5.7% during 2020. As a result, the minimum advance of social security for an individual living alone will be 321,687. By 2020, since 2018, the number has increased from 300,000 K, i.e. About 7.2%, at the same time as the lowest salary will have increased by 11.7% and will be 335,000 k. For someone who lives with others, the minimum relocation will be 256,000. and has increased by 7.2% since 2018. A lower share of 1st feels unsatisfactory to the benefit of the elderly and micro-organization donor compared to others. The natural and rightful requirement that no one be under the minimum wage in Iceland was reimbursed yesterday's budget bill. The government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter and the senators who have the government would like the poorest people in Iceland to decide for themselves who have not chosen their lot and the lawgiver. Among older citizens who receive sole payment from insurance agencies, a group of women are large. In the past, some 70% of the pensioners who have the lowest approved interest are women who had part - time jobs or homework. Among the most prominent are women of foreign background. This group of women has earned little or no rights to pay from pension funds, and they have very limited resources to improve their terms. The gap between the poor and the rich is seen as a result of the inaction of the government, who say one thing in speeches but who decides otherwise with the budget. At the same time, large - scale fishing costs are significantly reduced, and there is certainly no shortage. The government's priorities are clear, and we in the United States think it's unacceptable. However, the 1st cut-off of the insurance bill can be agreed with a greater proportion of the action that strengthens the competitiveness of the workplace.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u94	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent, even though I have not agreed with the main tone. I missed that. A senator would not be just brighter than that. In terms of growth reform, it may be appropriate to draw at least one part of it. Why growth improvements have been reduced as the positive trend for pay has increased and growth has never been reduced. Those who are buying an apartment have never been able to provide funding for better financial costs. The debt status of the Icelandic households is changed completely, and it is better than any other state of the Northern countries, no matter what our criteria. Money is much more than in other countries. The debt of a contribution of tea is much lower than in other northern countries and also a total debt as a proportion of land production. In this regard, it is quite clear. It is also all right to present in this discussion that since 2015 the level of pay has increased by 25%, more than in any other country, even in the model country of the European Union. This is a three-stage income tax system, and when you talk about the income tax system, it is all right to draw out that the situation is quite amazing, even though much is going to be done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u95	Mr. President. I would certainly be brighter than it was if it wasn't so unfair. On average, we can certainly say that the situation in Iceland is quite comfortable. We are the tenth richest nation in the world, so we should live better with our poorest people. That is not what this government wants to do, however. She wants to take advantage of those who are the richest. Hv. One senator discussed the growth reform system and concludes that the reason 27,000 people dropped out of the system is that there are good debts and all of these. A senator listed. The fact is, though, that despite all of this, we need to look at the underlying criteria. They increased by 5% last year, otherwise they had started since 2010. If they want to starve and destroy a system, they don't change the criteria because everything else goes up and changes and their families drop out. It is this, Mr. President, that this is how housing support is weakened, and so many families fall out of the system, the conclusion is that the impact on pay increases and taxes is zeroed out, and the status of the people is not going to be as good as they would like. As to this, the reviews of ASI and other trade unions show. This is a fact, this is not all true, but it is true of low - paying professionals who may not have more than 20% in their homes. [[The president calls.]] It's documented and it's a fact, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u96	Mr. President. It is a remarkable statement that 32 billion declines in income taxation are due to growth change.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u97	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u98	Wait, wait, wait. A senator will answer me later. Still, let it be between parts. The fact is, we are doing very well, and the fact is that nowhere or question is more equal than in Iceland. This does not mean that there are groups and individuals who do not have an advantage. We need to catch them, and that's what this government is doing. A person cannot discuss housing support solely out of the growth system as well as that. A senator does what he looks forward to in social setting. It's okay to keep it up, then. A senator, and only mention what the government is doing in that regard. It would also be okay to mention what is being done for young people, allowing them to have their first apartment by making use of, for example. his special share in building up his own money in an apartment. In all of this, the special savings, the growth reform system, the activities of the social apartment system in which even now a new fund is being set up exclusively in that sector, I think that the judgment will be that no government has done more in housing than the current government. Should we do more? Yes, but no government has done more.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u99	It's a reminder. Congress officials direct their words to the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u100	Mr. President. I'm not quite ready to sign that no government in Iceland has done more in housing. If we just watch the mortgages and add up what is done with the general apartments, rented apartments, and interest benefits, the sum is just the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u101	The special savings.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u102	Nothing's being added. The special savings surely benefit rich young people, but not as well for those with less income. And it's not like that, Mr. President, this government will seize the worst in Iceland. It's just bullshit. What is the situation among the elderly and the microorganisms? What's the situation with microchips who need to rely on insurance payments? They received a government decision yesterday a 3.5% increase from January 1, 2020. The interval between them and those with the lowest salary will be 2020 80,000 k. The trend for earning is much higher, but we here are expected to seize those who are the poorest and who have not chosen their positions. That's not what they're doing. Mr. President. This government is good for the richest of the country. I'm glad that my unions overtook the change in the tax system, so those who earn less pay pay less taxes. On the other hand, the high income tax is missing. We do not look at those who are at the top, and I did well in my committee opinion what their situation is and how it has grown in the shelter of this government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u103	V.E.G. President. I recommend a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee on the bill to legalize the changing of the law of a special tax on a financial enterprise. The committee discussed the situation, and they brought in many good visitors from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, the State's Bankitation and the Organization for finance, as well as the reviews from the same partners as others. In accordance with local law, this special body of taxes goes to a financial company 0.36% of total taxpayers over 50 billion by the end of the income year. The bill suggests that the tax rate declines to 0.145% in four steps to end the tax rate of 0.318% at stress in 2021, 0.261% at pressure 2022, 0.203% at stress 2023, and finally 0.15% at 2024 and later. A White book on the future financial outlook shows that taxes in Icelandic financial companies compared with taxes in other countries, Scandinavia, Ireland, Ireland, and Britain are considerably higher in Iceland. The majority of the data shows that significant differences between taxes and public fees have negative effects on the competitiveness of Icelandic financial companies. The lack of competitiveness is largely a result of SMEs who are unable to seek funding in foreign banks or through the debt markets. A greater proportion of the committee then estimates that this special tax returns a competitive position in the Icelandic loan market where only part of the loan market needs to pay the tax. The review of the state's Bank Office highlights the impact of unchanged taxation on the value of a stake of financial funds, but the Agency has worked to prepare for sales of the State's holdings in accordance with the laws on the sale of the government's holdings of financial assets. In fact, the review says so.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error The rules under the laws for sale include open sale procedures, transparency, objective and practicality, which require the highest prices or market prices for property items. In view of the Agency's opinion, it is very important that the public pay-off environment of financial companies is stable and predictable for a considerable time. Large and rapid changes in tax environment do not contribute to the trust and credibility of the financial market and may have a negative impact on demand and market prices, which the Icelandic government can possibly get for its share in financial companies, if and when it comes to sales. According to Bank Office assessment, the value of the holdings of the state in Iceland and U.S. Bank will increase by nearly 44 billion if a special tax is dropped to 0.15% of the total debt as expected in the bill. Finally, I pointed out that the Government Treaty emphasizes the need for further efficiency in the financial system, guided by reducing the cost of consumers. Clearly, homes and businesses pay at least Much of the specificity of the bank tax in the form of higher loans and lower interest rates. The majority stress that they will be followed by the gradual reduction of the individual bank tax into the more favorable interest rates of enterprises and households, as well as the provision of public incomes, for investments and innovations. Under the committee are the representatives of the greater part, Director Óli Björn Kárason, Brabbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Britti, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, and Silja the Dögg of Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u104	Mr. President. Hv. A senator and a prominent authority did well over all the evidence to eliminate this tax, especially under the circumstances now of employment, where there is coldness, where there is a recession in investment in the private sector and where homes are holding hands. We can even see. In recent numbers, the contribution of the Kingdom Fund in the first nine months of this year is a significant source of cooling. At the same time, we also learn that despite the growth of Iceland's National Bank, banks are raising the budget for their customers, including the U.S. because there is unpredicted blame for the government on the financial system. It is well stated in a white book quoted in the panel of parts that these curses are eight times that of what is going on and what happens in our neighboring countries. That's why I must ask you why. A senator: How is it that these charges are not prepped and that they are now reduced in handsome acquiesces when needed instead of distributing them to some small-dose cures long into their next election period? It is obvious in this context, has been pointed out repeatedly, and was very good in the matter of question. This is an example of spells that go directly to the bank customers, taxes that are actually paid by homes and businesses, and that are probably at odds with smaller companies and the public in the country. That's why I'm asking. A senator: How is this drawn so long rather than walking with photos now, at least starting with 50 percent of this tax within the next year?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u105	V.E.G. President. In itself, I can say every word for it. Senator. The principle is found in Icelandic society. It's been achieved in the government, and I believe it is a great, good and big step, though. It wasn't default. Many people in the community, not just at a council, but throughout the community, view this tax or even the exception of it as having money from people in the country. As in so many other matters, when we discuss the job, we feel that as soon as individuals and businesses are cut off, we are giving up our money. There is the real problem around all the tax reductions that need to be done, perhaps me and him. A senator and many others agree that this is a benefit to the public. This is the political wrestling we handle every day in Icelandic political bitch. People thus view the matter as giving up money in a common fund. It takes a major change of mind to get it right somehow. This may be an excellent way to do so. I liked to participate in this, of course, with considerable pressure on my own government to go faster on this one, but that's just, unfortunately, not an agreement. But we got it, didn't we? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u106	Mr. President. I'm glad to hear it. A senator agrees on the importance of reducing this tax rapidly. The problem has been, and the difference between our position is that one of us is in the government and the other is not. This is the result of the charge of state funds in recent years. There is no room to lower taxes, and unfortunately, the government's plans for reducing this tax are what might be said too little and too late. It would be welcome oxygen into the job life as well as with the homes in the country if things were moving rapidly and without doubt about reducing this tax. He was selective at the time, supposed to be temporary to finance certain projects that have long since been completed, the consequences of the collapse. We are still left with this temporary tax system, for we are well - aware that temporary taxes tend to live very long. I'm not going to argue very long with the senator about matters that we agree on but, nevertheless, encourage him to do so, encourage him to follow up on the decision. Unfortunately, this is the case with taxes such as this, and this discussion has also been about credit taxes, that these costs cannot be lowered because they do not return to consumers. Yet, all research has shown the opposite. This has been repeated on the basis of the direct application of this tax on the interest laws of the public and the businesses of the land, thereby reducing necessary investment, reducing the value of the bank property, as it has been clearly explained, and it could, in fact, be said that the government is grossly damaging its own yield by means of this appointed taxation. Both consequences could be said to be said that significant decreases in this tax would include promoting investment levels in the country and thus earnings of state funds and, at the same time, respecting the property of the State, which are the same banks. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u107	V.E.G. President. It's a strange situation to be faced with a man who you completely agree with. The Icelandic people have also been able to argue about what they agree on, and we can try to keep arguing about it. As I said before, the key is that people sense where the interests of the public lie. They do not always lie in great tax returns. It is true that this was supposed to be a temporary tax, and it tends to last a long time. We have many other requirements, such as our own money, which confuses all of this. I believe politicians who agree with us why. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson needs to be diligent in convincing the common people of the world of their interests. They lie in a powerful, competitive business life. It is our huge interest as a nation, and they are not in weakening the competitiveness of our companies and weakening our homes with a great tax system because that's when we get so much into our common fund. This is a huge job because if you listen to a general discussion today it's somehow in a different direction, i.e. that we are making the right income in our common budget. That's where I'm counting on it. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson, who knows these matters at council probably better than most others, that he will take up this rather than all the other confusion he has at this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-28-37.u108	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a members of Committee 1 less part of the Economic and Business Committee, representing the Coalition of the Committee. As noted in one authority, the current legal law on finance is 0.36% of the total taxpayer's debt of over 50 billion dollars. at the end of the income year. The bill suggests that the tax rate declines to 0.145% in four steps to 0.318% at stress in 2021, 0.261% at pressure 2022, 0.203% at stress 2023, and finally 0.145% at stress 2024 and later. The White Paper on a vision of the financial system published last year emphasizes that banks will be reduced to sales. That's why it's considered to be a bill for a discussion at the General Assembly. A smaller percentage of the Economic and Business Committee does not think it is time to prepare the sales of banks before a general debate or government policy on the future financial structure has taken place. The public must have access to the necessary banking services and to the inexpensivest possible payment services available to all. The banks provide the necessary services that concern all of us. They work as employees, increase their savings, and provide loans for housing or other projects related to the management of households and businesses. As matters are now being done at the same time, investments are sometimes highly risky, funded by public savings. Government banks should be drawn out of such activity. It can create a space for competition in areas where savings are not being used by the public with the internal insurance guarantee for financing of risky investments. Only the separation of a business bank, which is funded by loans and investment banking, which are not financed by loans can prevent the public from risking financial investments. A sale of property in banks will not be necessary to free the state from the risks of banks that keep their clientele, as the state will always bring a systematic key bank to rescue them. The risks and costs of investments that go to the fore are to be exclusive to those who engage in risky business, not to the common people. That is why investment banking has to be understood from business banks while the state is the largest owner of the banking system. A smaller share of 1 would agree that it is very important that the public budget of finance companies is stable and predictable, that rapid changes in the tax environment are not desirable. The Company wants the bank system to be established by an investment banking system and business banking system prior to making decisions about the sale of a part of the state in the banks. At the same time, the final decisions will be made on the taxes made to pay. As the public's interests are always guided by policy policies, we need to look into the technologies that are now exerting themselves and trying to figure out where they're leading us. In such uncertain times, it is important that the state maintain a large share in the banking system and protect the public from carrying the risks to the financial system. So banks cannot be reduced in order to sell their banks in the same form. The first memory is opposed to the change in banks suggested in this bill.
