ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u1	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution consults the Directorate of the Council to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission, No. 93/2017, which recommend the inclusion of eight EU types into the EEA Convention. The types involved in the third EU energy pack, a collection of EU types affecting the internal market for electricity and gas within the EU. Because there was no improvement in the above types, the decision was No. 93/2017 taken from the European Commission on the administrative notice of Iceland. I will explain more about the types of activities to be considered, but before proceeding any further, it is appropriate to make clear the type of energy that is most likely to be discussed in the official discussion, i.e. Regulation No. 713/2009, to establish an energy market partner's organisation. With the recommendation presented here, the General Assembly of the Management Board is proposed to confirm for Iceland the decision made by the Joint EEA on the uptake of the third energy package in the EEA Convention on the grounds that no cross-border infrastructure is now available in Iceland, which makes it possible to transport electricity between Iceland and EU energy markets. The EU third energy package on such infrastructure, including Regulation No. 713/2009, to establish an energy market associate organisation, is not relevant and is therefore not of practical relevance to the country. A respectable president. With Decisions made by the European Commission No. 93/2017, from May 5, 2017, eight types are recorded in the EEA Convention. Five of these are the third energy pack, two directives and three regulations involved in enterprises with electricity and natural gas and the establishment of the energy market partner. The EU approved these measures in July 2009 and gained value in September 2009. The decision of the joint EEA committee also includes the Commission Regulation on submission and publication of data to the electricity markets and two Commission decisions from 2010 and 2012 which amend the annex to Commission Regulation and Council on the provision of the transport systems for natural gas. First, there is the Council Regulation and the Council No. 713/2009, to establish an energy market associate organisation, also called ACER, which is a shortcut to the English term of the Agency. The Agency is aimed at helping the Rapporteur with the application of power within the European Economic Area and, if necessary, coordinate the action of the Rapporteur. In Iceland, the surveillance agency is the Power Institute. If the proposal is agreed as detailed here, the Regulation, No. 713/2009, introduced in Icelandic just the standard way but under legal notice that the infrastructure that allows for transporting electricity between Iceland and EU energy markets will not be built or estimated unless the exception of a review of the law on the basis of the Regulation and the implementation of its cross-border links laws will not be carried out until the revision is completed. At the same time, it will be further considered, and more specifically, at the Generals' scene, whether or not its introduction is in harmony with the Icelandic constitution. This simply means that the controversial regulations of this Regulation are of no relevance and will not be implemented in this country until and if the Council decides that Iceland is linked to the EU internal energy market. Second, there is the Council Regulation and the Council No. 714/ 2009, which deals with conditions for access to electrical exchange networks across borders. The objective of the Regulation is to set reasonable rules for the cross-border electrical exchange and to increase by competing for internal markets. Since Iceland does not have an electrical exchange across borders, the Regulation is not relevant to this country. Third, the European Parliament's Directive and the Council's 2009/72/EC, also referred to as the third electronic directive, which deals with common regulations for the internal market for electricity. The directive is based on the idea of an internal energy market where consumers actually have options for which they buy electricity. The directive implements common rules for production, transport, distribution and delivery of electricity, as well as for consumer protection, with the aim of improving and integrating competitive electrical markets within the European Economic Area. Fourth, consider the Commission Regulation No. 543/2013, of drop and release of power market data, which contains collection rules and collection of data from electrical targets. The aim of the Regulation is to set rules for information on expected electricity production and use so that the people of the market can better meet its needs. On decision of the joint EEA board, Iceland will receive three outbacks due to the third energy pack. They're based on what Iceland got at the induction of the first and second energy package. First of all, Iceland receives annull of the Newcomputer's third power directive for the full separation of transport companies, which is Iceland, from manufacturing and sales companies. Second, the decision that if Iceland can show that there is a problem for the management of electronic energy systems, it is permitted to apply for the expanded access to the EFTA, ESA, from sections 6 and 8 of the third electrical directive for the separation of distribution companies, access to transport and distribution systems, market attitudes and cooperation. These are comparable sources from Iceland under the other energy package as little as an isolated electrical energy system, but Iceland has so far no new authority. Third, Iceland is ablaze to all EU types with natural gas. The above waivers are in accordance with the commission given by the Generals. A respectable president. Much has been discussed and written last year on the uptake of the third energy package in the EEA Convention. The preparation and negotiations of the EFTA countries within the EU to the European Union on the uptake of the third energy package in the EEA Treaty lasted about six years, in the course of 2010◯2016. During this time, a close consultation was made with the General Assembly, not only is the matter in the consultation course with the Allied Parliamentary Committees in accordance with Council Regulations on the ES Parliamentary Management Board of 2014-2016, but the foreign ministers at any given time explained the case and its posts in the annual reports of the Minister of State to the Council of State and International Affairs. During the past few months, criticism has been shown of the matter that I have seen why I should take it seriously. This criticism, in fact, has nothing to do with the ongoing distortions and outbacks that have, unfortunately, marked a general discussion of the matter. The grammatical criticism I refer to leads to whether the recording of the legislation involved in the third energy package is against a constitution. It has specifically been referred to as regulations in Regulation No. 713/2009, for the establishment of an electrical power market associate organisation, includes exposition of state power that cannot pass a constitution. Governments have taken the anxieties and doubts that have come seriously. It's my firm opinion that we've done our homework well, as a proposal to evangelise and that the documents clearly indicate that we've done our homework. We have listened to the criticism given on a grammatical basis, and the conclusion is that all scholars involved now agree that the third energy package is being introduced in the way suggested. There's nothing missing. In fact, I'm wondering if any other EEA case was as well tore at the council and as well prepared on behalf of the Commission as this case. Mr. President. With regard to those regulations, No. 713/2009, to establish an energy market partner organisation, which has been agreed to suggest that no cross-border infrastructure exists in Iceland that makes it possible to transport electricity between Iceland and EU energy markets. So these laws do not apply and do not have a realistic relevance to the country in general. As indicated in chapter 2, therefore, the Regulation shall be implemented in the European Union in a standard way but in a legal way that the basis for the transfer of electricity between Iceland and the EU energy market will not be established or planned unless it is reviewed on the legal basis of the Regulation and its restrictions on cross-border activities will not be implemented until this review is completed. It is a common understanding with the European Commission. The second part of March. I had a discussion with the European Commission's Commission of Energy. A joint news release followed by a joint statement confirming our common understanding of the uniqueness enjoyed by Iceland in a common energy market. The notification is included in the package leaflet of XVI for the proposal. That's where even the two of them come from. to Iceland's electrical energy system is currently an isolated system and not linked to an electronic cord between Iceland and the energy system of the EU's internal market. In that light, a large proportion of the third energy package rules, i.e. those involved in business of the infrastructure of electrical energy across borders, not of value or of any practical significance for Iceland, as long as there is no electronic cord. It is made clear in the announcement that the current provision of the EU's third energy package has no effect on Iceland's government over Iceland's energy resources and decision-making authorities over the use and management of the EU. The EU's internal energy market is at the bottom of the Icelandic government. A respectable president. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs consulted four Icelandic scholars for the opinion of administrative concerns that might exist during the induction and recording of the third energy package in Icelandic rights. Their opinions were given in one memo and two groups of opinions. In addition to that, the Ministry of prosecuting and innovation came to refer to two lawyers. For the following party: Davíð Þór Björgvinsson, Skúli Magnússon, Stefán Stefánsson, and Friar Friðriksson Hirst. Then the Ministry of prose and innovation turned to Tjörvi, the Jóhann of Pétursson, and Ólafur Einarsson. Opinions and their memos are included with the proposal as accompanying documents. Their view has clearly shed light on the governmental issues that are under test. The conclusion of most of them is the implementation of Regulation No. 713/2009, in Icelandic, without specific notice, is in accordance with the constitution. However, the principles of the Regulation that scholars question are of no relevance here in a country where there is no connection with an internal energy market. As indicated in Section 2, it is concluded that the implementation of the Regulation in Iceland is not linked to the EU electronic energy market by legal means that the infrastructure that allows the transfer of electricity between Iceland and the EU energy market will not be established or estimated unless the exception of a review of the Regulation's legislation and the implementation of its cross-border policies will not be carried out until the revision is completed. The review of this will be made further, and particularly, in the case of the Generals whether its introduction in this setting conforms to a Icelandic constitution, as above. By means of this method, it is undisputed among all the above - mentioned scholars that the induction fully meets the requirements of the Constitution. It can be said to be very careful, taking into account the views of the scholars who had most criticized this aspect of the matter. Mr. President. Induction of Council Directive 2009/72/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, i.e. The third power directive calls for changes in electrical law, No. 65/2003, and Power Institute law, No. 87/2003, with respect to the independence of the energy monitoring Agency. Since Iceland has an exception from the requirement of the third electroenergy directive for the ownership of the transport company, i.e. Landsnet, are the only legal modifications made by the third energy package, resulting in the independence of the Power Agency in the implementation of electricity monitoring and increased authority clearances resulting from this monitoring. Has travel, industrial, and innovation the Minister provided a bill to change the above laws for the current council. This issue linked travel, industrial, and innovation to the Commission will also provide a bill to correct the conversion of electricity laws and the interpretation proposal for a change in the synonym of no. 26/148, the government's policy on the building of electrical energy transport systems, which will not be expected to attack the link between the national electrical energy systems in another country's electricity system unless its approval of the Generalis is agreed and this agreement should be agreed before implementing such activities can be implemented in a system plan. The basis for such a decision by the Generalis shall provide a comprehensive assessment of the environmental, social, and economic effects of such connections. Is this suggested to make it absolutely clear that such a decision will always be subject to the approval of the Generals, and it is always the authority of the government of the United States. Finally, a respectable president is entitled to impose the following for many reasons: the authority given by the EFTA, ESA, has for the EFTA countries on the basis of the decision made by the European Commission will not be relevant in the present setting because the Icelandic electric system is an isolated system, i.e. does not have access to other electrical systems. In addition, it is warranted that in the United States, the European Union's electronic energy system is linked with its member states through a marine cable that such a sea cable is a basis for cross-border development, but it cannot be done unless it is decided by the General himself. A respectable president. I suggest that after this discussion, the proposal be referred to the highest level. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u2	Mr. President. First, I want to celebrate the fact that this and the others have finally come up, and now we can start discussing the actual facts of the matter as it is, not some vague arguments and contradictions, such as the Supreme Court. A minister entered a fine speech earlier. V.E.G. A minister also came to realize that many things have been suggested in order to mislead the discussion. I'd like to use this opportunity to ask him some direct questions that have been prominent in the discussion and hopefully give him the highest. A minister's opportunity to give clear answers to the discussion ahead. Is there anything in this legislation as high as possible? A minister who means that the electrician's activation or distribution of energy will no longer be owned by public property? Is there anything in the legislation affecting the hands of Icelanders over their own resources, i.e. the conditions of energy efficiency, our choice to set energy sources, or the general form of energy delivery? Does a third energy package somehow make us an obligation to set up a cable?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u3	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. You're absolutely right. A senator with the statements she spoke of, men have brought them over and over again, and evidently with the intention of misleading the discussion and scaring people. The answers are very simple. Is there anything in this that will contribute to the fact that there will be someone involved in energy, energy company, privateised? No, it isn't, and I don't know that any scholar claimed it. Is there anything in this that encourages or demands responsibilities regarding our resources? The answer is no, it's not. And again: I don't know that any scholar who wants to be taken seriously claimed it. The third question: Is there anything in this that would put a cable on us? The answer is very simple: No. And I don't know that any scholar who wants to be taken seriously claimed that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u4	Mr. President. What a joy it would be if we always received such clear answers in a talk! Thank you so much for them. I would like a second answer to ask in a series of articles by Friðrik Friðriksson Hirst and Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, where they think there are two possibilities. One of them is that we ask for annuity from Regulations 713 and 714 as a whole. The other is that we are implementing the energy package in advance of 9. Regulation 713. With all due respect, I don't completely understand their interpretation of the consequences. They cannot make decisions for themselves. I suppose the highest. A minister used the time taken to review the matter carefully and to examine the situation. The paths they present. May I ask why they're not gone?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u5	A respectable president. It's hard to finish this part in a short answer, but the simple answer is: If we go the other way, that's a big political adventure. That path has never been gone, and it is impossible to say, and no one can claim where it ends. The key point is that some highly qualified scholars were called. The advice of the scribes who had the most doubts was applied; we can tell them the most conservative when it comes to this matter and interpretation of the constitution. It is cool that they have not come together, and no longer share that the way in which they have entered the constitution is set up here. That's the point. I hope so, and I trust that I will have the opportunity to discuss this better than I do right now in one minute. But I am so happy that I finally received commendation for making a clear reply in the previous year. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u6	It may not happen again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u7	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister of clear and well-funded history, and as more people do, I rejoice that this matter has finally been brought to an end, because the debate on this has been quite amazing in chapters, and indeed mine knows that grassing for far too long still on the issue and who are our interests and interests, if so far, of the European Union's common internal energy market, which, of course, are considerably more important and more important interests than may be discussed in this matter. But in my simple form, it seems to me that with this fine review it has been shown all along that this case, which has been made so much, has virtually no effect on the national energy market, unless there are some additional authority available to the Power Agency. Is that correct, my highest? Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. The short answer to this is: Yes, it is true that this has nothing to do with anything but what I think matters, even though it has always been before, that if we go along the road to lay down a cable, we need to take it back. Both belts and bracelets are being placed in that regard. V.E.G. The Minister of Industrial Affairs is here presented with a bill which makes it very clear that it is the General who will make that decision. Of course, it is always the decision of the Icelandic government that would somehow have come to the council. But it's as clear as it can be. It's about putting both belts and bracelets, taking the scholars who wanted to be as careful as possible and adding the items to the things we know, but we both want to have belts and bracelets.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u9	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. That is true, and for good reason, to care fully for our interests. However, it has been odd when efforts have been made to update the range of the third energy package on some form of non-enable transport infrastructure, i.e. A cable, or a cable, said to lay such a sea cable, as many have claimed. At the same time, no website has found that gas is the exception of the third energy package for us because we do not have gas production. I assume that no one has tried to claim that we have a obligation to drill for gas because of the third energy package. It can be good to wear a belt and bracelet. I would go so far as to say that we have belts and bracelets as well as our clothes on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u10	A respectable president. We can be sure that we wear girdles and bracelets, and we wear clothes, such as pants. A senator referred to him. Yet, I feel that there are many things that have been going on in this discussion, even though not all of them were grammatical, something we should discuss seriously, and this is not a worse time than anyone else. Some have expressed concern about resource management that is not directly related to this matter but are extremely important to us, and we are to discuss it and take it seriously. We are in a unique position to have renewable energy sources, but we can harm them if we are not careful. And although this is not related, it does not change our keeping on the watch, for we have seen many examples in many parts of the world where people have not handled carefully the important resources they have received, and they have gone awry. We also have much more to discuss. [[The president calls.]] I hope that we can use this discussion for upbuilding things and that we will be able to live with better issues when the energy issues are over.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u11	Mr. President. It is up to us generals to respect the Constitution according to the oath that we make. If the warning is lifted, as proposed here, the decision of the joint EU committee will be met and will be committed for Iceland to national rights in accordance with the requirements of the EEA Convention. There will be no turning back. Nothing has shown that the legal entity, known as a possible solution, is sufficient to free us from that national commitment. Mr. President. I'm going to ask the highest. Minister: Where in the evidence is it shown that the legal prerogative is sufficient to free us from the national commitments that we accept by dismissing the warning? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u12	A respectable president. First, a little bit because of the word "what." Senator, there won't be a return. What's the point? A senator to refer? That's what I'm talking about. A senator saying we can't cancel the EEA deal? That's what I'm talking about. A senator saying that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u13	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u14	Hv. A senator said earlier, even though he now calls no up: there will be no turning back.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u15	What kind of paint is this, topv? Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u16	Hv. A senator has to decide whether he will fulfill his first word or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u17	Answer the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u18	Then he can just pull them back. There are opinions here. That's never happened that way, since I've been particularly reviewing that point. No matter what. A senator tries to turn the matter around is just that way, and it knows who and who can read it, that the counsel of those who were most concerned about that aspect of the matter is applied. There is no agreement among scholars. In fact, they were the only ones who believed that we were in danger of going beyond the Constitution. But their advice is applied.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u19	Mr. President. It's the highest. Minister, really telling us he's going to stake on the whole EEA deal? Of course, what I meant was that only then will we go out of this European partnership. But does a minister really insist that we sign the whole contract? I must admit, Mr. President, that I am a little surprised at the speech of the highest. Minister. I just have a simple question. She couldn't be simpler. The other route, suggested after some communication between the Ministry and the fine scholars Stefán the Már of Stefánsson and Friðrik, Árni of Friðriksson, Hirst, is surprising and calls for an explanation. It calls for an explanation of how the legal entity releases us from a irreverent national commitment. [[The president calls.]] Can a minister not answer that simple question?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u20	A respectable president. Hv. A senator has asked me twice today. I read in detail Már Stefánsson's statement about... [[Is that in the evidence?]] [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. In case of a moment. A senator does not examine the evidence of the matter, but he does not have the responsibility of reading through it before it is available. A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u21	Have you finished...?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u22	I think that says all about this case... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u23	Wait a minute. Senator to allow the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u24	It's all about this case. A senator will do whatever he can to prevent the speaker from speaking.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u25	Not at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u26	Come on, he's coming. And the man who has had the biggest words on this matter, because he is so worried about it, that is so great and awesome, is not in the audience. He's in Catar. A respectable president. Hv. The senator must first read the data and then come and discuss the matter. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u27	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this very clear, direct, and well-investigated debate with this synonym. I think she touched us, and we realize it's delicate. The matter is sensitive within the Independence Party, the forward party, and possibly some other categories. These are questions that have been raised in the past few weeks, and I felt that a minister gave a good answer in his history. It's very important. At the same time, I'd like to underline that we would immediately say that we would, if it were to help the government, step in the way of the case, and, of course, we'll be able to keep it if there's some thing to save members of the government. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, who has a great view of exactly these factors, what he thinks has been the greatest development for an Icelandic community through the first energy package, the second energy package and the third energy package. What does he think he's gained and improved for Icelandic society, including consumers and businesses? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u28	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. It is no wonder, however, that when it comes to our energy and energy resources, a case affects strings in the hearts of the people. I just think it's a very normal reaction to being on guard and to want to keep an eye on the matter and ask critical questions. I don't make any comments with that, not a few. It is our duty to try to explain as much as possible what is going on here. Hv. A senator asks about the main benefits, and we may be able to discuss them better below. I like to be able to choose more than one person when in business. I can't see anything wrong with that. On the contrary, I just like it, and that's something we got through this energy package. There's also a definite transparency that was not present before. I can't finish this minute to go over these things all together, but I have a past when it comes to energy, and I have some opinions about them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u29	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I agree with him, it is very important to be on guard when it comes to our energy resources. Of course, we have certain warnings for them, for all efficiency, as well as for the use of the marine resource outside the EEA. We need to be on guard there. But I'd like to avoid it, and that's why I want to thank a minister for the speech, that we here at the council agree with the moods of the people that have been going on in this and the uncertainty and insecurity that certain social elements want to play on. That's bullshit, and I'm glad to get to the top. A minister is very decisive in this matter, although I understand it very well and know that there may be certain doubts in his backlands and other classes. But we need to have the courage to speak clearly and to say things as they are. After a week the Ministry has taken steps to review the case, it may be criticized, it will reach the same conclusion as all our major experts. [[The president calls.]] This does not war against the Constitution, and we Icelanders have every authority and authority over our resources. [[The president calls.]] It has the highest. Special attention to foreign ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u30	A respectable president. I don't have much to add. I hope, however, that this discussion will be long and that many will be involved. [[Up front.]] - Yeah, I hope so. paritaprevir Sæland Gourand, this discussion is going to be long, and I hope that as many people come up here and participate in it. I hope those who are following this discussion will be better informed about what is going on here. Because like a dog. A senator rightly mentions, which is entirely in harmony with the results of all scholars, we have full control over our resources, whether we handle this case as suggested or not. It's very important that you are absolutely clear. It is not accepting anything that makes a privatary need something, let alone a cable. It is a responsibility to make false statements in all matters, but especially in such matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u31	V.E.G. President. I have to come up here because that's the way it is with interest, like the highest. The minister of state knows for himself that he is often away in public business and that he enjoys it, I think, fully understood by all those sitting in this hall. Today, one of the most fierce opposers of the issue today is in the hands of the Generals in a foreign field and the highest. The minister of foreign affairs makes it a special subject here. I don't know exactly what the Minister's up to. He wants the discussion to be postponed until then. A senator Returns to Work? We love it. Or whatever virtues these are as high as possible. Minister of State is bringing you into this hall for this discussion? It's a disgrace. This is to his demeanation. I'd prefer him to take it back - to make it somewhat suspicious that the general members of Congress are not just one senator, traveling abroad on the Generals' roads. [[The president calls.]] It may just be a coincidence that this conversation takes place now while the person is abroad? [[The president calls.]] Or is something like that going on? [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u32	A respectable president. Just so everyone gets informed about it, why? A senator asked a question here, the timing of this discussion was determined in consultation with the heads of the Middle Party. And I had a direct access to it myself, so that's all there is to it. All of us need to set priorities. I have a full understanding of that when it comes to taking care of Iceland's interests in foreign areas. Since this is a big issue of priorities, e.g. I am not caring for certain obligations because I believe that this is important. It's no secret that I was surprised, in view of the statement by the head of the Middle Party, that he set his priorities in this way. [[The president calls.]] So it's all in the way. That was very, very surprising.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u33	Mr. President. I think it's a poem of the highest power. Secretary of State that he chooses to make the absence of the head of the Central Party, located abroad by the Generals, suspiciously. The other is so different, I can make the most of it. Of course, a minister of ours, by the fact that those of us here, will maintain a powerful language in this matter and will communicate with a minister. Now it looks like it sounds like everything. that which was done in his case, that there should not fail. But I'm gonna say again what I said earlier. I don't think it's decent to be trying to make myself suspicious when members of the council are serving in a foreign field. I don't think it's a decent foreign minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u34	Mr. President. The third pack of energy is now in the hands of the General. It is safe to say that in recent years, people have been moved more than the question of whether we Icelanders are about to give up control of the nation's energy resources in foreign power. This is a big case, no matter how you look at it, the country's sovereignty, its constitution, and its interests in Iceland. The first question, Mr. President, is this perhaps, "Why is this a matter for the General?" It is not the least of all about the cross - border transport of energy. This is true in Europe and where energy can be transported through national sea cables. This is not true of us who are not equipped to connect with the energy supply of other nations while the sea cables are not placed on the shores of the country. As far as we can tell, we have a European pass on canals and railways, as far as we can tell. Why is this not appropriate in the absence of a European connection? The next question is: What are the benefits of accepting the third energy package as a whole to an Icelandic nation? There is no answer to that question. There are two EU regulations at the highest level. That's no. 713, for the new European institution, the associate organisation of the energy market, it is often referred to as acronym in English, ACER. The other is a requirement for access to electrical exchange networks across borders and no. 714. It is available, as we have seen, a detailed report on the case. In the opinion of Stefánsson's Motorsson and Friðrik Árni Hirst in charge of administrative matters, related to the government's campaign to the institutions of the EU and EFTA because of the EU's third energy package, the red thread is a warning that the proposed future does not meet the requirements of the Constitution. They say, in the conclusion of opinions, there is no precedent for such a power exchange to the international institutions on the basis of the EEA Convention. It is the conclusion of the authors'opinion that, as they put it, a great deal of doubt about whether any decision-making authority to ESA will be committed at 8 p.m. Regulation No. 713/2009 as planned to record it in the EEA Convention, as determined by the joint committee from May 5, 2017, is included in the legal Constitution of the Republic of Iceland. The authors to the general administrative guidelines to be considered in these areas and are specifically stated that the viewpoint on the basis of the EEA Convention, the cut-off of the lead, and its wideness in this relationship. Authors call attention to the position of the European Commission, ESA, against this ACER facility. As regards the EFTA State, it is assumed that the Agency will administer the authority given by the ACER in Regulation No. 713, including Legally binding decisions affecting a network of cross-border structures, some of which are coded for sea cables. As noted, ACER is expected to have a major impact on the content of such ESA decisions and ESA decisions should include: based on a decrease in ACER interval for ESAs. So these words are behind the reefs of ACER. The authors say that such an arrangement will be misapproached by the two support systems of the EEA Convention, which includes the guidelines considered in terms of whether the government's sales for an international agency are contained within the Constitution. The authors take note of the regulations given by the Regulation No. 714 - Once spoken of No. 713 - may raise comparable government opinions and ESA sources to make legal binding decisions according to Article 8. Regulation No. 713. Furthermore, the authors are taken separately for d-joins 1 mg. Thirty-seven. Directive No. 72/2009, which is within the national level of observation in the Member States by permission of the President: Please follow up, and conduct, all relevant legal binding decisions [ACER] and the Commission. The review of authors' regulations on Regulations 713 and 714 as well as the provision of 37th par. Directive No. 72/2009, makes it very dangerous to accept the energy package. The authors, Stefán Már and Friðrik Árni, provide clear answers to what would happen if he was not accepted here. They say, with President's permission: However, Iceland has refused to lift the controlled warning, which leads to 103. gr. The EEA Convention would have to take it back up on the joint EEA committee and seek its release. This will be followed by a case that is equal to 102 C.E. The EEA Convention. [...] The joint EEA committee shall seek to establish an agreement on a solution that may be accepted by the parties in order to withdraw the deadline at the first opportunity. This is on page 24 of Árni Már and Friðrik's opinion that I thought was still valid. It sounds like a minister, maybe a minister. to some extent not. Mr. President. The way in which they live is determined by the highly regarded authors is gentle, reasonable, and normal. This, of course, is the way to go. The government should retract the situation and refer it to a cohesion process in the field of the Common EEA Committee on the basis of the decision of the EEA agreement itself. That's the most natural thing in the world. The author's cautionary words of the authors of the group's opinion make it necessary for the general members to take them into account, accept them, and act accordingly. Of course, all doubt is to interpret the Constitution - and that is why the sovereignty - is in favor. Mr. President. Regarding the way this has been chosen, to remove the governmental premise by agreeing to this synonym and implementing with its national rights: It has not been demonstrated in any of the legal reasons for which it is established. This has not been demonstrated. V.E.G. A minister has not proved that. Therefore, this suggestion should be rejected, referred to for proper and reasonable treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u35	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson of Ish steed for his speech. But I have to scratch my head a little. He then repeatedly referred to Stephen's group of Stefánsson's Már and Friðrik's Friðriksson's early Árni but noted that the possibility of a possible solution is that a third pack of energy will be created, to be removed from a governmental notice, legally obligatory notice that his provision for the infrastructure of cross-borders will not be valid. And that's exactly what we're doing. So I ask. Councilman: Do he disagree with the opinion of Stefánsson's Már and Friðrik the Árni of Friðriksson when they reach that conclusion and direct the council on this course as a possible solution? Then I'd also like to ask you: In what way and where in the third energy package Iceland is undergoing some national commitment, as the senator seems to think, when it involves a sea cable. I have requested that the senator inform us of this because it is very important that we in this room recognize the location of the third energy package, of the directive, the national commitments to the Icelandic government and the Icelandic public to place an entourage. How important it is that the senator direct and clearly inform us where this commitment lies in these matters! Then, of course, a question is: What else is it in the energy package as a dog? A senator disagrees with you? Does he have a problem with the increased independence of the Power Institute? Does he have a problem with increasing consumer protection? What is it besides this national commitment that I'm going to find?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u36	Mr. President. Where available, there are over 40 pages of highly respected authors on the subject. I have pointed out that there are warnings as red thread through these 40 pages. It is very detailed on a governmental basis. And they do more. They go deep into the matter, so it's not just, so you put Latin here, look at the case de joure, but also de lfacto. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason doesn't have to ask about any cable, for I didn't say anything about shouldering a national commitment to some cable. There was nothing like that in my case, so I don't have to answer anything about it. On the other hand, there is a very detailed discussion with StefánMár the Friðriksson of Hirst and Friar Friðrik, who is concerned with Regulation 713 and, especially, 8. hers. They take a short step toward Regulation 714, but they say that similar governmental matters may arise in connection with it. They refer to the above group d-d-d-dj 37th par. Directive 72. After reading what I suppose men in general have done here, this is the material substance of the exponent of the state authority here and the doubts they call serious. They say they're serious. Of course, there must be grounds for that to be asked, as I have tried to ask the highest question. Minister: Where is the argument that the path selected is satisfactory?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u37	Mr. President. Logic support is also a factor. to the opinion of Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, and the son of Friðrik, the Árni of Friðriksson, as a man. A senator chooses to overlook. He has a selective memory or selective something when it comes to the ratings. Some things please him, but things do not please him, and then he chooses to overlook it completely. What we're dealing with today is exactly what we're doing here. It's very important to realize that. Then I've misunderstood. A senator when he speaks of his lack of national commitments when it comes to fixing a cable. What, then, is he witnessing? Where is the national commitment that he so fearful of, other than the fact that we have certain responsibilities when it comes to sharing in cooperation with nations? [[The president calls.]] Of course, there are certain obligations that we have when we associate with other nations. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I hope the senator doesn't disagree.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u38	The president reminds the speakers to give a talk class.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u39	Mr. President. I traced in detail, as is possible in a short answer, whatever it is that they offer the basis for the work of law and regulations available.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u40	You don't agree.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u41	I ask myself, as maybe more: The authors of the opinion describe a way of the case, after expressing serious doubt that the case will last, with reference to the EU agreement itself. But then something happens. There was some communication between the Ministry, as it is called, and writers, and they are drawn into it, with great dismay that the other way is to be seen. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [["No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u42	A respectable president. I really can't help cutting down the same knee as the first person who gave an answer here. The beginning of a speech. paritaprevir Ólafur the son of Ísleifsson the son of Issu would not be understood differently, so he felt that the nation was surrendering control over the energy resource to some of the world's institutions with the third energy package. He must be answered. Where is this deed? Where do you find this deed of the nation's authority over their energy resources? On the one hand, he is correct in referring to the opinions of the experts mentioned here - in fact, 44 pages. On the first 42 pages of their presentation, the senator chose to reenact their presentation but let go of the conclusion. The conclusion states that the possible solution to any doubts they had in 42 pages was - who? Yes, exactly the one the Minister proposes in the Senate resolution. The solution is there and there it is. As it says, the energy package will be implemented in Icelandic rights by legal notice that its directives for crossborder structures, etc. He points to the solution, this scholar as slow as possible. The senator referred to, to the conclusion of the group's opinion. But, hey. A senator chooses to overlook entirely the findings of the scholars, choosing to talk only about the doubts they first gave to each other. But the solution they point to is the solution that has gone and the route that has gone.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u43	Mr. President. The wording is like this: a possible solution, a solution to which there is no boundlessness.◯ [[And it is not just that.]] We have very big questions here. Is it too much to ask that a minister be called upon in what way the solution to the situation meets with what must be done? The question is simply this: Is the legal guardian possible? Does he oppose the national commitment that we are shouldering by accepting this package? It's a simple question. She's normal, she's fair. It's not a question of any institutions, it's exactly designated institutions. There is a new agency that is being established by this Regulation, 713. It is detailed in its relationship with the European Commission. I'm not going to say that in this regard, the European Commission, often called ESA, is almost like a drawer in this ACER thing there. But the ACER puts in order. It's just a very serious question, and it's in this series of articles by Stefán Már and Friðrik of the Árni on this. In fact, they raise up in this context the two solid solution. So it's just a normal question. These questions are there. I'm not reading it in any selective way. I've had the opportunity to speak to the minister from time to time and thank him very much for his answers. [[The president calls.]] I've been calling this solution many times. I have repeatedly mentioned what they have concluded, and in their final words: 'The solution, however, is not flawless.' What are the faults? Where is the legal opinion for them?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u44	A respectable president. It's perfectly normal. The senator will ask the secretary if this solution is effective. The answer, however, is found in the scholars to whom he gives the most evidence. Yes, this solution will do - they say it in the conclusion. But, hey. However, a senator let it pass to answer my question, which bowed down to where in this suggestion the highest. A foreign minister would be to find a deed to the nation's administration of energy resources, as could be understood. A senator at the beginning of his talk earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u45	Mr. President. I don't need to have a big case on this. It is simply enough to refer to the fine authors mentioned here as Article 8. Regulation 713, approximately 14 pars. - Both regulations come from 2009. They also give specific comments on the 37th grade. in the 72 Directive discussing the authority of this new institution, which is most frequent in the daily language called ACER. This is in the evidence, and all I need to do is refer to it. I believe, Mr. President, that we have a responsibility to approach our planet with caution when there is an opinion such as the one available here from Stefán Mo and the Friðrik of the Árni. [[The president calls.]] We generals must want - and we are also obliged to do so - interpret all doubt about the constitution, especially when the writers speak of serious doubt.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u46	Didn't you read the results?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u47	Again, the president reminds us of a talk period that will begin to increase somewhat with the hammer, which means that those at home will be seriously uncomfortable if the members of the body pass far beyond their time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u48	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur, the Ísleifsson of Isleus, gave up his talk and, in fact, answers to the highest. Secretary of state before. In his speech and in his reply, we speak up. The secretary of state spoke to the senator of some opinion for which the Ministry had consulted. In his speech earlier, he spoke of respected lawyers in a town, and in an answer, he implied that these figures or respected lawyers, whether we call them, had some part of them, I don't know how to say it, turn it, or change their mind, for some pressure from the highest degree. Minister or Ministry. These are serious accusations. A senator stands out here. So I must ask. A member of Parliament: is a man of some kind. A senator in the public field questioning our integrity did you seem to be the lawyers in the administrative court? What's the road trip? A senator on? How's that fall? On the one hand, a senator would talk about our most distinguished lawyers, but in the end he would bring reproach on them in this way? The Senator has got to answer that. You can't come here on a talk chair and question people who don't have the opportunity to answer for themselves and act as if they're just a big deal. That's not it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u49	Mr. President. I haven't blamed anybody. There's only an entire chapter in this opinion, which is numbered 6 dealing with authors' reaction to comments received from the Ministry. It's simple. I was just talking about it. There are no ambiguous or repetitious references to the point of this opinion. It is quite remarkable, in fact, that the nature of this department is not clearly stated. I did a special computer search in the document, but it doesn't show. However, I assume it's the State Department. So what? A senator can completely save himself all the big talk and talk about doubting integrity. There's nothing here, on my part, that gives the motive for such smoldering and scraping on the part of the horse. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u50	Mr. President. I'd like to come in here later and say, "What?" A senator according to that - where the discussion has been quite extensive and has been given to national experts from abroad, even some of the chemicals and souvenirs have been brought here to a considerable extent - whether he knows that this discussion or battle is somehow in some way funded abroad.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u51	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator will have to turn beyond me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u52	I'm asking about your opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u53	I have no idea, and I'm just saying. A senator should turn to me something other than himself. I have the wish and hope that this matter will be discussed here on a perfunctory basis and without a riot, as well. The senator was right here. There are so many things to take. May I make one point. The authors say that there is no authority to accept laws that cannot be passed on to the Icelandic constitution, although it is not possible to test the specific laws of law. [[The president calls.]] Because there's no sea cable in here. Here's a big deal. I don't have time to go into this, but I'll point this out, and I'll discuss this later in these discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u54	A respectable president. First, let me celebrate the fact that the matter is presented in this room. It's a long time for this to be discussed, and I'm happy to welcome the stated will of the senators to discuss it objectively and carefully. I think it's time. This is made clear in an excellent summary of the case in the form of a report that the European Union's joint energy market has followed the EU cohesion work to tell from the beginning, clear that the EEA Convention reached electrical energy, and soon thereafter came to its first energy package, then the second and the third energy package. When you discuss the benefits of projects like these, you may often forget the exact nature of the EEA teamwork for us. It's not always about us. We're not allowed to approach the discussion with so much self-involvedness. We are involved in all kinds of activities in the EEA, which are of little concern to us, but in the overall internal market. The energy package includes in a joint market for gas. We are not specifically complaining that it has nothing to do with us, since no gas production is here to distribute. We are just over 300 thousand people, as part of the 500 million people market, and sometimes we're bringing in here things that touch us very little, but it does not reduce their value in the introduction or importance of our participation in the continued development of the European Economic Area, because there is no business agreement that we've done that is more important in Icelandic society for industry and home than the exactly the European Economic Area Treaty. He's alive and he's evolved. This is just an example of yet another project in which we need to keep track of the development of this cooperation. It is also forgotten when looking at only a narrower picture of the importance of a joint energy market in Europe, what this market has meant in climates, where one of the main targets of energy, the third now, has just been to clear away barriers and borders on the electricity market in order to reduce energy waste and to enable Europe to reduce emissions of electricity production in the continent. The key factors there are just the electricity production of solar power and wind, which is a unstable source of electricity, and it has repeatedly been shown to be a common market that can take over the fluctuations in that production. That is why it is so important to continue developing this common electrical market. We all have common interests here. The reduction of emissions from electricity production in Europe is of great importance to us, although we are not directly involved in that common electrical market with connections. It is also often forgotten in this context of the consumer factor, i.e. the other key element in a common electrical market, achieving an increased competition, increasing the benefit for consumers, for jobs and for homes, of an integrated electrical market. It's worked, too, here. I'm not going to stand here and say that the international power market competition is perfect, that it is considerably better than the monologue we lived in before we began to introduce the common electrical market. The induction of the third energy package is just to sharpen the sources of energy for the Power Institute to follow up on the effectiveness of this market, to try to trust the market's competitive environment to trust consumers' position in the electricity market. This may be the main effect of the induction of the third energy package now, which has been extremely low in the discussion. And may you be glad that it's such a long rosary to finally discuss EEA and consumer business in this room? Sometimes there's been little interest in consumers, competitions and the EEA in particular. It is a joy to see that things are changing. I'm not gonna spend time talking about cables or cables. This is not a matter of sea cables. It is later, is totally in our custody, and would certainly not wish to be taken into account by means of a careful discussion of the pros and cons. There are obvious advantages, and there may also be very obvious defects of sea cables. We are to take that up with careful consideration and come to a more reasonable conclusion as to whether we want such a connection or not, but it has nothing to do with the induction of the third energy package. This has been shown to be very clear in the opinion of groups involved. Of course, it is good to see the European Union's declaration or press release on common understanding of the value of the third energy package, that it confirms that what has been said in the discussion from the very beginning that the policies leading to transport between countries have no value here while there is no connection with the European market, just as no one has disputed that there is no value here, no gas production here. It is, therefore, a source of joy and joy to see that the facts of this matter are finally being drawn up in an unequivocal way, which brings us to our attention why the matter has been stirred up so much dust. It's amazing when you sit over and see what the effect of the third energy package is, how hard it has been tried to be suspicious of its induction, and even discuss that this case is the key to the fact that we should cancel the European Economic Convention. I haven't heard a more stupid statement than the one that should be sacrificed, I would say almost all our interests in an international trade for something that, in the end, is not a matter of interest to us. It has been possible for the introduction to this matter, to be very good at it, to have had many years in preparation by the government, to be repeated at the council, to give repeated reviews for members of the Senate, and never at any time to launch some of the more spectacular woes during this introduction. I think it would be closer to talking about the matter in calm and calm, based on reason, but not to stir up some fear-easiness over an alleged effect that is impossible to resist when the facts of the matter are challenged. It is high time for the discussion, especially when it comes to the work of Europe, this growing isolationism, a panic over international cooperation, to the end. Those who preceded us in this hall in recent decades and, indeed, from the beginning of our sovereignty and before, have always been guided by the perspective that we are an independent, sovereign people, who use this same sovereignty to negotiate even our own. to our international interests, to share in international cooperation, where our interests go together with our neighbors, and we have benefited greatly from the international cooperation we have developed during those decades, especially the postwar years. It gives evidence of vision, courage, real leaders for this nation's interests, but not fear, homemaking, and isolationism to lure us into some shell and sacrifice much more of the interests we have of the EEA working together for some political cones, who are going to try to mow by raising some mud storm around the introduction of this package. There will be a very interesting discussion of the third energy package in the Assembly Hall in the next few days.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u55	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I took note of two words he used in his talk, the words of terror, and isolationism. Modernly, a political party hasn't. The senator has a view of a straw, which is all around the world. The order sample is so at the end of the straw is the euro and the European Union, but people don't see the rest of the world. The rest of us are most of them, at least in the Middle Class, that we want to do good business with the whole world, not just Europe, which is falling. We want to think about Asia. We want to do business with America, so I don't quite understand each other. A senator is using the word isolation policy. As for panic propaganda, I'd like to know that what the middle class has held in the discussion - it has been called all sorts of names; when people get all exposed to the discussion with nothing in the book, they raise such words as fear - inspiring, defamatory, and so forth. But these people who come here themselves to the conversation have such a fine argument. Isn't it? No, not necessarily. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: Does he believe that this third energy package will hold one-sided U.S. declaration for warning? We had this last week's discussion, in part, about the import of unheated raw meat. There, we Icelanders had set a one - sided notice sometime in the old days, which was not worth a dime. I'm asking why. A member of Congress: Is he convinced that the present warnings will be kept? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u56	Mr. President. First, I'd like to say that I'm well dressed in this discussion, even in a tie, and far from being standing here all naked for reason or other things. But because of him. A senator speaks of our view of resurgence - I think it's a very fun approach -- in the same way, it can be said of a class. A senator seeks what might be called a world view rather than a world view, i.e. always looking home to town, not to the world. I am very much in favor of our international relations in every way, both with the European Union, within the EEA, but also with Asia, the United States, etc. We should not rule out any potential for this, but we have huge business interests in cooperation with the European Economic Area. It's the biggest export site we have today, both in goods and in services. So it is vital that we fulfill our obligations, protect our interests, and take care to take advantage of the opportunities that this cooperation can create for us, and is always creating us each day. Hv. A senator referred to the discussion on the transport of meat. It's just a fundamental difference. There we had made a contract that included a commitment to customs and import of fresh meat. We had opened a posetium so that we could import fresh meat and were being appealed to respect the agreements we had made as a free and sovereign nation. We have not made any agreement on the link between our electrician and the European market. This is clearly stated: It cannot be done without the approval of the Allegorium. As a result, I have no concern over this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u57	V.E.G. President. I'm glad to hear it. paritaprevir The restoration is not a concern. But 80% of the people are concerned. Sixty-five percent of the voters seem to be homey unbelievers who don't believe in the recording of this energy package, so it's a job to work for a reason. A senator and his associates at the grass root. But from now on, I will be glad to hear it. A senator said: "We opened the meat market in a way that opened up a posetium. Similarly, we are now opening up a posetium pack for this energy package. But this energy package just doesn't have to do with the sea cables. That's a second matter. And while there are details in the context data and in the motion of this case, which promotes the aim of the sea wire, this energy package is about so many other things. It's a story, for example. the approach to energy prices. It deals with an international organization called ACER, which will be responsible for a great deal of energy management. That's why I say what. A senator: Seemed lawyers have made it shine, and not only made it shine, they have claimed, or promoted the authority we have here in this discussion now, are trying very hard on, or even go against it. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he has, because he is carefree, doesn't worry about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u58	Mr. President. I always feel like I'm grited together in this discussion about the potential effects of the third energy package in Norway and the potential effects of the third energy package here. There is a fundamental difference between the effects of Norway's involvement with the European electricity market, we don't. It may not be surprising that the evidence seems to have been brought into the Norwegian Middle East with financial support for the battle here, so it may have forgotten to adapt it to the induction process. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u59	Didn't say anything about it. On the other hand, they are in lawsuits because of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u60	But that may be the essence of a matter. Eco-efficiency in Europe has nothing to say in this market as long as the market has no link to a European electricity market, just not one thing. It is strongly in our custody how we employ the electricity resource, whom we choose to sell or not sell, how we choose to develop the resource. We are not dealing with any commitment to some kind of sale or export of electricity to Europe, let alone that we are somehow obliged to connect with the European markets, just not one way to demonstrate the slightest step toward that and quite clear and joint understanding that the issues are totally beyond our custody. That's why I always feel that this is the same fear propaganda in my discussion, since the evidence is not right. When we examine the results of a number of lawyers, which are very clear in the data of this case, it can be seen that everything we are involved in the introduction of the third energy package is completely in the constitution. It would be simply an independent debate, which is a long-term, in connection with the EEA Enforcement Protocol on the Constitution for the expansion to the international institutions, but this discussion has not wanted to take place in this room. [[The president calls.]] It is long time for a discussion of such a procedure in a constitution to help us get on with the development of the EEA team. [[The president calls.]] But there's nothing different about this than any other EEA case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u61	Mr. President. When you listen to the discussion, it turns out that this controversy here at the General on this single phrase: Icelanders are losing control of their energy resources. There's nothing more complicated than that. And the shortest answer, of course, is no on my part, and in that case I could leave the speaker's chair. So some of these are. We're not talking very often. I've watched very carefully the objections and the lawsuits of the highest figures, and I have to admit that I don't reach half of them or more of the arguments or statements they present. This is because energy was defined as a backup or electrical energy. It was done with the first and second energy package. It's a product that suits them for business. It doesn't have the same laws that everyone else saw so, so I'm going to get to it afterwards, in Europe. But all right, it turns out that the first and second energy packets have not caused any great trouble in Iceland as they were against him in the first place. And maybe then we wouldn't have defined electricity as a product in Iceland, it might well be. However, the authority to be followed has not been new. Transport and production were separate and I can't see, at least Not in the estimates I have seen, that the consequences of the first and second energy package were negative, even contrary. A third pack of energy deals with the management of this product, discussing the low level of exchange by electrical energy between countries. And why is that? Yes, it is because energy demand has increased, human beings are bowing to energy exchanges, for eco-friendly energy. In this case, efforts are made to make use of the European Union's common opportunities to achieve this target. The reason for this third energy package is very clear to me. But what the energy package isn't - it's not about production volumes, i.e. how much electricity is produced in a certain country, or the manufacturing device. It is also not about the transport systems itself unless it is already available, i.e. It is not built in a third energy package that the European Union can appoint men in a designated country to add the transport system. It doesn't work that way. It's on the market presidents. It's about free business and negotiations in itself. And this free business, and these contracts are in charge of every state. There is no EU institution that can drive a country to increase energy production or to increase transport lines, no more than when it comes to other resources, e.g. metals. Paints are lips. And it is not that some particular government can be cut off to produce more metals and to sell it across the border to the next country that needs it. It's not like that. So I ask a good opponent of the third energy package here at council: Where does it say that some institution or law code in Europe can clear a country to increase energy production or increase transport lines? Where in the third energy pack e.g. Is it? If you look at Sweden with its vast excess energy, because they have nuclear and hydropowers, etc., Cyprus, with their considerable force of wind, Denmark with wind power and Romania, with their 6,400 MW of water - ask me to countries which the European Union has walked to build more windmills, more hydropower plants, sell more energy into the grid, and place more transport lines, or new shipping lines. I'll wait for that tip. We have a product that's in demand, let's say some bridal goods. Is this too important for them because there is a free flow from one country to another? I think we should drag this discussion down into real life and examine Europe. We'll put the cable on the nation's own custody. We put it in the advance that energy for it is also on the custody of the nation itself. It does not exist now and the distribution system of the land itself, to connect with the corresponding cable, is also the custody of the nation itself. So this is in the custody of the Generals. Is anyone going to object, or do you think it's in vain, that all three of these are in the custody of the Generals? The cable has to be transfected with a MW of 500 to MW. There may be 200 MWs now as an excess in Iceland. And he has to reach over 1,200 miles. It's going to have to reach a depth of 1,000 to 1,500,1500. It's a very complex technical development, but possible. So this is nothing like the sea cables that have been placed across the North Sea or the Baltic Sea or anywhere else. I've met this British company. They brought the Globes here to talk to us senators, Atlantic Super Connection. What was the initiative? With the initiative of the governments, Sigmunds of Gunnlaugsson Gunollson and David Cameron. It was their conversation between them that led to the arrival of the fine people, and there was no need for a warning check. It was a kind of sexy idea, so I'm going to hit myself. That business idea is just a business idea. It's a pure profit-changing idea. It is a private company that receives support from the British government if it can finance this subterranean cable in part. This is a fragment of the energy demand for Great Britain, the kind of thing applies to one decent city there, Glasgow or something like that. So let's just get it straight. Of course, it matters to us because we get a suitable price, etc., but let's put it in the right context. On a map that follows the so - called guidelines for EU energy wood from 2013 this famous Icelink string is between Iceland and United Kingdom. He is there, on the other hand, on the side of the government and on the other hand, but he has no legal binding significance, even though he is on this map. This is one of the ideas that has been set out on how Iceland could connect to this electrical system, and there is no problem suggesting that it should be taken out of this map. There is no national commitment in this Icelink string, not any. To tell you the truth, I haven't reached the same match I mentioned before by those who are opposed to the energy package, he is, of course, appealing to the anxiety of the nation's resources, but he's also fallen because he's so often disturbed by real facts. It inspires suspicion and gives rise to fear for the future of Icelandic energy resources. He appeals to a national pride, which I am not to speak down. But when the facts and reasoning are in the way they have been, this will not be destroyed in this way. There's a clear message about this cord. There is no danger that we will lose anything. True, it is a test warrant that in itself is positive. But it's not that we're losing anything with this energy package. That's a very clear message. Six legal opinions have been written. [[The president calls.]] There's been one talk here. There has not been much talk about anyone else. But I urge you to read Skúli Magnússson's álit of this duty, as is often discussed, that we must connect to the inner market of Europe. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u62	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ari Guðmundsson for the speech. I cut especially after he said that a pack of energy alone and two hadn't caused any problems. Now I'd like to think about it for a second. The result of that induction was in the case of a senator. For the first time, electricity was defined as market, as presented here. In our small community, this growth in energy grew into more overcrowded and expensive systems by separating the processing and distribution of electricity as we know it. This led to an increase in electricity prices for homes and businesses. Interestingly, the left greens were against this energy package here at the General Assembly and voted against it. I personally believe they can be proud of it. And what a surprise it is that they are now supporting the third energy package! I can give you an example of an increase in electrical prices. In Southnes heat - free areas are called cold areas. In one night after this resolution at the General Assembly, electricity prices increased to these homes by 100% in terms of house warming. This is what I call the consequences of this energy package. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator must agree with me on that. Therefore, when talking about a pack of three energy, the steps are spooked. I just want to ask you what. Senator: Was it the wrong decision on the left green of the day not to support a energy package one and two?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u63	Mr. President. No, I'm sure it hasn't been wrong. I wasn't at the council then, and I didn't hear the reasoning, but I could see them through. It's been a long time. Now the question is, if the first and second energy packets were considered now, would we all be against them? I'm not so sure. But okay, that's the story. About the increase in electricity prices by 100% due to separation of the surface of the building, i.e. The energy supply, and the energy transport, I can't say anything. This is being held, and I think it's a very peculiar increase if you can double the price because the transport systems and production systems are being separated. But well, the trouble I'm talking about is that assessment of the overall impact of this separation in terms of business security, how to communicate between the person who sells and makes it, shows that all of this has been judged relatively positive. The amount of electricity may have increased somewhere, or may have been replaced, or may even dropped, elsewhere because it is an active competition. Four, five, or six companies are selling, which was also one of the reasons. If the electricity was wrong, the European Union had left green in its own time. If the effort was successful, leftover greens were wrong in their time. It is not unnatural when you look back 10, 15, 20 years after you have introduced some of the things you have fought against or been doing, that they have a different attitude. [[The president calls.]] That's all I'm going to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u64	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I'm going to explain to him why electrical prices in cold areas in Southnes increased by 100%. When the heat - control industry was built around the Southnes, not all houses were put in place, i.e. on Waterless Beach, Grindavík, etc, where heating could not be stopped. It was then made up of Southnes' Heat Institute that it specifically supplied electricity to these homes, making them fit at the same level as others. When a pack of energy was introduced, the company was banned from supplying electricity to these users. As a result, the price was increased by 100%. This energy package makes it the social factor, the social component of this system, is no longer under way. Now it is only the market law that holds it, and then it should be accepted. And it is unacceptable in our small country that some parts of Europe, in Brussels, can predict that building - heating electricity is forbidden because we do not live in hot water and the quality of life that comes with the heating system. I say once again, the tracks scare with respect to this energy package. To me, there is no question that we should reject him because there will be no consequences for us in the European economy, we know it. It's just some kind of panic propaganda coming from the board, Reconnaissance and the Conspiracy to the end if we say no. We're just supposed to say no because our best interests in this country are that we live in cheap electricity and what will happen when this energy package is approved here is paying electricity to all households and companies in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u65	Bullshit!
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u66	You might think so. A senator would be psychic because he speaks as if we were laying a cable tomorrow, thus increasing the electricity prices in Iceland. It can well be, as we have so many times before, there is no General Assembly, and there is no government that can ensure that after 10, 15, 20 or 30 or 50 years there will be no sea cable. But we're not talking about it. And talking about panic propaganda. This is a panic propaganda, to act like it's imminent. It's not coming. You know, about subsidies on electricity. We were talking about the transport equation just before, which is not forbidden. And if the government failed because there were cold areas suddenly faced with rising electrical bills, I would simply say that it would be nice to know why they failed because the transport equations, subsidies, what we call these are allowed, of course, by some means. Brussels won't forbid it. In many countries, let us say in Finland, where more or less all house warming is carried out by electricity, no one should tell me that it is not possible to favor those who live far away from the main roads or such. I'll dismiss this fear propaganda.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u67	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Ari Guðmundsson for an excellent speech. The Senator said there was no danger. I'm not quite that convinced. And the senator mentioned in his talk a sea cable that has not yet been set and that during the course of the minister. paritaprevir The crew of Prime Minister Gunnlaugsson Gunoug, who was then serving as prime minister, would have had a meeting with President Cameron of Britain regarding these matters. At the time, however, it was observed that the Ministers also discussed energy cooperation, and a team was decided to set up to explore a possible link between countries through the cables. Davíð's dream told him that he would take notice of the turning of a cable. The prerequisite for the possible fixation of a future cable would be that energy prices for households and companies would not be increased. So he was on his way to the sea cable, to be said. But because the senator is not concerned, I would like to ask him about one of my concerns and to others: that these warnings that are being carried out are not possible, it is not possible to make such a one - sided decision, but the decision to be taken by the joint EEA committee to last. It's not a statement, it's a question. M.a. Therefore, we would like to reject this energy package and refer it to the joint EEA committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u68	Mr. President. As for the government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunollson and foreboding: If he was merely about energy prices, it's not much of a notice, considering that we're losing control of the energy resources. Was there no one there foreordained? Or did they not even see it? I'm just asking. But let it be. I'm going to read here, because it's always about our duty to receive cables, etc. This is Dr. Skúli Magnússon, lawyer, with permission of the highest power. President: I believe it is right to say that I feel very unlikely that there would be a cause on this basis for the EFTA Court. The decision to fix a cable, which would include land bases in Iceland, depends on a number of factors on the custody of Member States and fall outside the EEA Convention. [...] Thus, in my opinion, it is excluded that a cable used for transporting electricity would be laid without the universal council taking sides in either a sentence of universal rules or by laws that claimed to be carried out by itself. So there are no material reasons to argue that Iceland is losing control over its energy resources, it's trying to force a sea cable in Iceland, that there's a risk of increasing energy prices, etc. It's all tied up to one big student of the order. This, however, shows that the Allied Council of Iceland wants it for some reason - that can be a number of reasons, let's not belittle it - lay a sea cable. Then all of these parameters of the third energy package have gone into effect. And can it not be reconciled that this is so under the supervision of the nation? You could even ask for a national bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u69	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for that answer. I reiterate that I'm not as convinced as I am. A senator for this to work, that it's safe. That's why we're going this way. There are no statements about that. It has been quoted today, and we will certainly continue to do so. They have not claimed that all these routes are completely bulletproof. There's also been reports that we've never rejected EU types. That's right. But there is no danger, even if we do. I've heard scholars say that. There's no danger. There's no need to bring this back to the EEA Committee, there's a good review. There's the right place to cover issues like this. It's a natural big deal. We're talking a lot bigger than Icesave was at the time. It's a matter of principle to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u70	Mr. President. The size of this case? We're inducting made by them premonitions that they don't mean, really. Except for the part involved in the surveillance agency, which will be an independent surveillance provider in Iceland. Unless there's a cable down here. The fear then, there must be a time in the future, when both of us will be gone, here is the democratic cosine that seeks this cable for some reason. And if, for some reason, an Icelandic community, a democratic work - hopefully - does not prevent it, I'm going to be happy in the grave. And likewise, if she will, and refuse, and the council thereby, deny any such decrees, I will also turn again, and rejoice. Because the case is very cut and cut, like the highest. The minister of state has set us up: All of the officers who are made of electrical prices, that we need to be activated here and south, and here we have to put a bunch of lines across the grid and the environmental impact and whatever, that we have lost control over the whole process -- this is such a paradigm that I hope that most Icelands see through this site.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u71	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister over the case. I think it is proper to discuss the matter so that people can express their views and are not being discussed with both people and the propaganda of the Lord. This chair is for exchange of opinions, for instance, for critical questions, and for decision making. I also want to guess in this regard that when people stand here on a speaker and grinning and laughing, they minimize the words of people who are expressing their opinion. At any rate, I'm going to try to express my opinion on this matter and hope that I will have the opportunity and sound to do so. For one thing, you want to thank me for being here. It may be said that it is of utmost importance that such an EEA structure is discussed here at the General Assembly. It's not always. Unfortunately, the EEA types sometimes have little coverage, so we wake up to something that's not right and that's not good for the country. I said it here in the beginning that I'm worried, like more. I've examined expert opinions, including... The people who have been mentioned often here, and I ask: Are we Icelanders going to give up power over our natural resources, the energy we have here, clean and clear? In time, we fought to control the fish in the sea. And what will be next? It may be our water or air. That's a good question to ask. Because if we want to move out our electricity and sell it to other countries, our air or water, just to think ahead, I think we should do it on our terms. If Icelanders intend to connect with other countries and to sell energy to other electronic systems, I feel that it should be done on Icelandic terms, not on the basis of the European Union. The synonyms presented here regarding the induction of the third EU energy package are expected to develop an institution of an institution on the basis of the European Union's decision-making programme. The Agency has been given the name the Commission's Cooperative Management Board in a energy market. Here I would like to quote Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, and Friðrik, Árni of Friðriksson, Hirst, on page 20. 4, with President's permission, and has been given a discussion here today: ▪ It is assumed that the ACER◯ - the European Union's energy agency - will have a major impact on the content of such ESA decisions and the ESA's decisions should include: dose should be taken on a dose basis as ACER concomitantly. What does this tell us, fine senators? Thus, the European Energy Agency will lay the conclusions on EU energy decisions. I'm a little worried. It's just that way. What is the significance of this for us Icelanders? So this means that we lose control over our energy resources, electrical power prices could rise and electrical prices could be the lowest thing in Europe. Do we want to change that? I say no. Opinions here show that the Icelandic public is opposed to bringing in a pack of three energy. 80% of the population are opposed to the inclusion of the energy package. In this regard, I also want to refer to a synonym that has been discussed and will be discussed later at the conference, which is a change in the Senate resolution 26/148 which is about the approval of the Council to come if it is intended to sea cables, thus connecting Iceland's electrical energy system to the electrical systems of other countries. I'd like to say, this council proposal is not going to protect the country's personal rights to power resources. And why do I say that? If the Council agrees to provide a sea cable to save green energy in Europe and meet the European Union's terms adopted by the Paris Convention on Climates, this will not change the agreement that if the types that have been mentioned here today, 713/2009 and 714/2009, will be approved at the General Assembly, then there will be an institution that has agreed to make decisions for Icelandic electricity. Yes, because the interpretation of the approved Generalis to put down a sea cable does not change because if these types become approved, an institution is completely ready, which is already and if a cable is laid. So, of course, it's just crazy to do it this way, as far as I'm concerned. What is also presented in the opinion of the above - mentioned lawyers is that this institution is the custody of ACER, the European Union's Power Institute, which includes the European Union. there are laws about cross-border binding decisions. It's not that complicated. Have you not read on the pages of this magazine? 4 on the rating? I'm just asking. There's something else. However, I wish that members of the Parliament carefully consider this matter, and of course, I have come here to convey my opinion. Fortunately, I haven't had much laugh, but I just wish people would answer. But you're supposed to be able to stand here and communicate without people being like that, what to say, kind of rude in the hall. I witnessed it here today. I don't think it's appropriate at the High Council, that's what I must say. I'd also like to say that we know that power over the nation's energy resources is in the hands of the nation. And we don't want that? I'm just worried that it won't happen when those two types are turned into law. Then is a ready string, when the cable is laid. And this battle is under the control of the European Commission of Power. I would like to refuse a pack of three energy and say, as other speakers have said before - in fact, my fellow gang members, so that it may be stated: referred in this matter to the EEA joint committee. Icelanders have never refused an EU model, but we can do that, and nothing will happen. We need to be careful about this. Maybe I'm completely lost. I don't think so, though. It's just that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u72	Mr. President. I think it's necessary to keep in mind when discussing this synopsis proposal in Article 125. The EEA Convention makes it clear that the contract has no effect on the terms of the holding rights. That's clear. So that's what they have in mind. I would also like to quote what appeared on the Department of State on Stefánsson 22, as we noted by the permission of the president's permission Már this synopsis and the legal arrangement: The proposal for this solution is that a third supply of energy does not put forth obligation in Iceland to set up groundworks. Rather, it is a decision on Iceland's custody. This is one of the methods proposed by our Friðrik and, in our opinion, the recording and implementation of the building system under the constitution, as there has been a legal review of these specific requirements not to be carried out until the legal basis, including the administrative issue, has been implemented at the Council. [[The president calls.]] Now I'm asking why. A member of Parliament: is a man of some kind. A senator agrees with this opinion of Stefán the Már of Stefánsson or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u73	The members of Parliament remind us to give a talk period, and it is already only one minute to answer, and it will be gone very quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u74	I'd like to thank Óli Björn Kárason for his interest in the case. Actually, I didn't hear the second question. Regarding the first he was discussing, he spoke of the order of property. I can totally agree with that. Of course, it is true. The senator's here. But it's about authority. According to the two lawyers, Már Monu and Friðrik: If these two types will be accepted, the authority of the European Energy Agency is theirs. This is on page4.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u75	Mr. President. Of course, much of the possession rights and stock are the rights to use. It's clear to the Neo-office dish. There's nothing to do with him. What I was witnessing is the words of Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, who declares that the solution that lies on the table is satisfying to him. And now I ask why. Again: Is she in agreement with StefánMár the son of Stefánsson, who thinks this is a satisfactory solution? Hence, his opinion was made before this proposal was made and submitted - with his support, according to a formula that he proposes in his opinion. Now he says in a statement published on the Department of State: I think it's satisfactory. This is an adequate solution. She's good. Supports him. StefánMár senator and his deduction? Or is it just a choice? [[The president calls.]] If I like an opinion, is she okay if I don't like her, she's not okay? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u76	V.E.G. President. Yeah. Hv. A senator refers to a solution that seems inadequate to me to Stefán Már, how I feel about it. I ask myself, " How did all of this happen? ' There was an opinion from these two lawyers, and thereafter there was a decree of the council. I don't think it's quite right what you're saying. In their opinion they seriously question...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u77	It's their suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u78	If I may continue. In Stefán and Friðrik's opinion, they strongly doubt that this is a way to go. They doubt that these two types are designed to produce them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u79	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. It's interesting to hear her say--Well, I can interpret it as if the former and present party of hers had apparently slept on the watch, based on her words regarding the EU makings, as she said earlier. So it's just interesting that Hauksdóttir Hauksdotttir, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnler's Gunnlaugsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, and others who have been standing here at the council, slept on guard. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: What article shows that our authority has been taken away from us? Iceland is producing fuels that are transported to EEA countries, e.g. From the company of Carbon Recycling International, I believe the opening of the inner market will give us access to an inner market that matters. What do you think? A senator for both ways? Enterprises such as Marel, Skaglish 3X, Valka, Mandarin, and others depend largely on energy issues being part of the EEA Convention. Why don't we stop when it's convenient for us? A senator? [[The president calls.]] And when? Where's the power supply? In what article? I'd like to hear it from what I'm talking about. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u80	Thank you. A senator of these questions. For one thing, it's easy to answer with the EEA types. It's been like this from the beginning, almost. All too few Icelandic employees have been involved in the introduction of these types, for instance abroad. And we know that there are many things that have passed us by. It's just a fact. I'm going to answer that question with an open inner market. Of course, we should be dealing with other countries about markets and other things, but we are to do so on our terms. And the reason why I had this speech earlier was that I worry that through the introduction of these two types, preparations will be started for that in case a cable is laid, i.e. Preparation for a specific organisation on the custody of the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u81	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I just have to ask her if she thinks it's not going to have any consequences if we engage at 103. gr. The EEA Convention, like a dog. The members of the Central Party have actually been suggesting this, i.e. that we do not intend to lift this control ship's notice. So, what does the senator think happens next in this process because it has not been activated? Is that wise? Because 25 years ago, seven EFTA countries convened this agreement with 12 EU states. Counts 'em out. A senator thinks it's wise to resign and negotiate with 28 countries for this, then without IV. Annexes, i.e. The electronics layer? Or which way should we go? One man has had a bit of publicity, i.e. Stefán Stefánsson. He came to a council of the Left Green. He told us that those watchmen were holding the issue as it is today. I'm asking why. A member of Congress: Has she personally spoken to Stefán Stefánsson or had the opportunity to ask him precisely about the concerns of the Central Party?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u82	V.E.G. A president and a what? Senator. I appreciate those questions. No, I haven't talked to him. I wish I had talked to him. But I read the report and there I see it in black and white, which I'm saying here. Of the fact that the Senator is concerned about recording or that we don't agree with the two types I suggested earlier, there is a few specialities in Iceland. For example, when this contract was made, there was not one word about energy, as I know. It came in later. We need to focus on what is important for an Icelandic nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u83	And that's not what we're doing? Just you?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u84	- I'm describing my opinion. I'm worried about it and I want to watch it so that these are institutions that will be approved and that they're only ready for the European Union when and if a cable is laid. [[The president calls.]] I'm worried about these two types and I think we can refer the case to the joint EEA committee. [[The president calls.]] There shouldn't be any problem for Iceland, and it's just a good idea for us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u85	Mr. President. Hv. A senator deals with ACER, the European Energy Agency, and that it actually has authority and passes them to ESA beyond the monitoring of energy transport between countries. And where can it really tell that the sources also protect energy production and the construction of new energy workers, etc.? I can't see it, and I challenge it. A senator to show that when ACER contributes some measure to ESAs, it is different from what ACER is supposed to do, which is the monitoring of energy transport between countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u86	V.E.G. A president and a what? Senator. I appreciate the question. What I was discussing is on page 18. 4 in the opinion of the above - mentioned lawyers, Stefán Már Stefánsson and Friðrik Árni Friðriksson son of Hirst. I'm going, with President's permission, to read it. This is the top of the page, above the first paragraph: What EFTA countries are concerned with, it is assumed that the EFTA (EU) monitoring facility will provide the authority given by ACER in Regulation No. 713/2009, including Legally binding decisions pertaining to cross-border structures. As noted, ACER is expected to have a major impact on the content of such ESA decisions and ESA decisions should include: should be withdrawn as ESAs
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u87	Mr. President. Hv. A senator confirms exactly what I think it is. A senator mistakenly felt that this served to protect some other authority, authority, and so forth, as shown in this opinion, would protect something other than the monitoring of move between countries. That's what they're talking about. True, there are certain forms of authority, and surely these same writers have felt that we were offering up certain authority from the State. But it's not about getting a cable here or we're gonna have to make it, not at all. It has the terrible basic understanding that I feel is frightening because it dyes everything that is going on here. It's so peculiar when there's six legal opinions. The middle class members should choose only what is right for them, and even overlook the fact that Stefán Stefánsson and his colleague believe that the way of Iceland is fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u88	Madam President and what? Senator. I appreciate that question, and I just want to say that there's nothing wrong. But if so, I ask: " If it was anything else, it would be different. ' A senator says, don't we need to determine what it is, what this means? I think it must be that way. If what I put forward is misunderstood on my part, which I don't think is, then, naturally, it doesn't mean everything else. We need to know what it is. It's simple.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u89	V.E.G. President. We're taking the case here. and we will discuss it in the committees of the council. It is hoped that there will be an opportunity for us to review all the legal opinions presented in this case and all the opinions presented. They are more than mentioned in talks. And I'm convinced that if people cross these opinions and then measure them on their own, as people are supposed to do, they're worried. paritaprevir Una María Óskarsdóttir spoke in her speech without any reason. I think we're supposed to look at this whole thing. I think we're supposed to get these fine scholars to meet us and talk with them so that they're not just taking off some unique word or phrase and breaking out of context, they're discussing the whole matter. I am absolutely convinced that her concern for this vast production of Iceland's resource in the energy field is coming to prove that there are misunderstandings based on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u90	Madam President. Yes, I'm exactly that way, for that matter, a man stands here to express his opinion on the great General and to consider the whole matter. Another factor that should be considered is the opinion, criticism, and not to speak of people's dwellings or to use other words, such as fear - inspiring propaganda. Certainly this is often used, but I'm standing here because I think the point is that it needs to be examined and that it will totally agree that it will be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u91	V.E.G. President. In this contrast, I wanted to state that this case has been in a very thorough investigation for years. When I was president of the 2013 Ministerial Committee of State,2015, we often received this case on our table because the case was being introduced. Then we stressed it deeply in the Foreign Affairs Committee, as well as in other committees over which the matter was covered, that there would be a two - short solution to the cross-border monitoring programme for business when it was such a business. Such a solution was found. So I thought it was a long time ago. For the rest of the matter, you wondered, " What would be the effect of a cable if it were laid? ' Given the bottom line of the case, the contents of the third energy package and the declarations made in connection with this, it is quite clear that the decision for a cable is an independent decision that no one will accept except here in this room. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u92	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for his input. Although this has been discussed for years, and perhaps it has been discussed from the time the contract was made in 1992, i.e. The EEA Convention, sometimes we need to get a new view of the situation. I think it's important to describe it here, and that's why I do it, and I'm grateful that I get a sound to do it. My vision is that this council-sense proposal for the cable, it has no effect, it needs to be approved by the General if a cable is laid. However, these two types, 713 and 713, make it possible for an institution to prepare the case, which is then the custody of the European Union, not the custody of the Icelanders. [[The president calls.]] This needs -- I'm not talking about the cable, I'm talking about the two types I've been quoting several times, that's what I'm worried about. [[Not the cable.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u93	Madam President. We're discussing a very serious matter that's relevant. to control our resources. Sadly, there are many indications that with a resolution of a foreign minister, we are surrendering power over the affairs of our major resources. It is only to see that a Senate world is deceived. It is suggested that a key tool to convince the nation that the induction of the third energy package will not have any negative effect here is the Fride's Count Friurk, Árni of Friðrik, and Stefán Már Stefánsson, whose ratings include: on administrative terms linked to the sales of government to the institutions of the EU and EFTA. The facts are correct, and I allow myself to quote such texts directly as others have done today by permission of the president: It has come to the point of not entering Article 8. Regulation No. 713/2009 nationally, even though the third pack of energy was recorded in the EEA Convention (after approval of the existing decision made by the European Commission on May 5, 2017), in which Iceland is not linked to the EU internal energy market (e.g. through the string). However, in the opinion of the authors, it is to consider approval of the General Assembly of the European Commission's joint decision unchanged (and therefore lifted a governmental notice), Iceland will make its national commitment to implement Regulation No. 713/2009, with the changes/reports that result from the decision of the joint EEA committee, over. 7. The EEA Convention. Therefore, Iceland's decision to introduce the Regulation to national adaptations resulting from the decision of the joint EEA committee. This also means that it will be taken into consideration even now. Regulation No. 713/2009 (and the rest of the third energy package if changing) will last, and before the General decides whether to agree to the agreed decision of the joint EEA committee. President. I'm going to repeat the last sentence, with permission: ▪ It also means that it will be taken into consideration even now. Regulation No. 713/2009 (and the rest of the third energy package if changing) will last, and before the General decides whether to agree to the agreed decision of the joint EEA committee. Madam President. By approval of the third energy package, the Allied has recognized the domain of the ACER, the EU Energy Agency, and its branch in Iceland. Both of them are under obligation to monitor whether the EU system development programme is being followed. If not followed, seek out local authorities for it. If the European Commission does not accept this challenge, the Commission shall submit a report on this. The Commission can handle the case for the EFTA Court and thus we are committed to the decision of that court. I think there's definitely a power career here, and I'm entitled to my opinion. I have every right to my opinion. It is completely incomprehensible to me if I agree with something that could be against the constitution. I point to the fact that one - sided European declarations have no value in European rights. A meeting between Icelandic Ministers and the European Commission does not have any legitimate significance. By implementing the third energy package in Icelandic legislation the General Assembly will commit Icelanders to participate in developing an EU internal energy market without the barrier, fifth EU freedom. To refuse to accept a cable to the country is to say that the internal market is not for Iceland. This is a clear contradiction. I'd like to suggest that the joint EEA Commission granted Iceland an exception from implementing EU legislation on natural gas because this is not a natural gas product. It could, with similar logic, give the EU legislation on a common energy market because Iceland is not connected at all to that market. That is one way we could go and spend all our uncertainty. But we could also adopt rules on canals and railroads. We must avoid getting involved in the situation that an institution has to say how to deliver energy. Power and authority over it are our principal future blessings, and it is vital that when it comes to such a decision, we be completely exclusive to the government. This is one of our country's eggs. It seems that the proposed number of sources and logical support for the induction of the third energy package are the opinion of Stefánsson Már and Friðrik's Árni of Friðrik Friðriksson Hirst. The Agency seems to believe that the nation's best interest in the induction of electricity ships is linked to a third energy package and that it is a special decision for the Generals to see if there is now a link to electrical transport through a marine cable. If the aim is, of course, that the Council and the legislator authority had to say if there is a link to the electrical systems of other countries, it is absolutely minimal to set the subject of the proposal into law, ensuring that both parties of the legislators are involved in the decision. Warnings about regulations or directives cannot be introduced, it has been shown to us. Precautions have no value and are all likely to make international commitments in Iceland. Any talk of fear of a European analogy, a genocide, or the worse language of a fallacy is not worth answering. This matter is complicated, but in its simplest form, it can be said that it will only work out to protect the interests of future generations. Madam President. As members of Congress, we must always respect the Icelandic constitution. It is wrong to reject the European Parliament's 3rd energy complex. The consequences will be unpredictable. The maximum EU response is encouraged by the EEA Convention. The EU can request that a component of the EEA energy contract be canceled. It is considered mainly another EU energy complex in Annex IV. This can't harm the EFTA countries and they will continue to work with the EU countries with energy and other sources. To argue that the application of the Council of denial will have serious consequences on EEA partnerships is the same as saying that EFTA status is the same with EU and EU authorities itself, equivalent to that EU Member State. This case goes beyond the content and nature of the EEA contract. It is clear that, according to the EEA Convention, we do not have to implement all commands. I'm gonna mention that about 102. The agreement that suggests that the state can reasonably reject the introduction of individual ships. Me and the Icelanders haven't said no about this. So I testify to what's been done before, about the way men dress, there's no bracelets, and there's no belts. The European Constitution of Iceland is not respected in my opinion, however, as any of the people here signed a vow to do. Madam President. All doubt should be interpreted in favor of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u94	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator rightly stated that he had a right to his view of this matter as well as other matters. All of us have. I appreciate the situation so that he's painting the devil on the wall of this case, and I believe that the evidence of the case is a reason to conclude that there is no danger to the weather. As I mentioned, we answered why. paritaprevir The Una María Óskarsdóttir of the past will remember at the council, when we have the opportunity to discuss this matter on committees, review all the legal views that have been written on this subject. From both the fine men of Friðrik Már Stefánsson's Árni and the Friðriksson Hirst Heir, as well as from Skúli Magnússon, Davíð Þór Björgvinsson's son, and, in fact, an older man's opinion from Ólafur the Einar Pétursson of Jóhannesson and Birgir Tjörvi, who have dealt with this matter in excellent ways - and have called on other experts. None of these expert articles, I believe, give us reason to worry about them. A senator has. But let this be seen in the conduct of the council on the matter. Let's discuss this, and we'll find answers to the questions that are still out of the table. If you doubt the answers already made, you have the opportunity to reason on the matter. But I now speak up first because I believe that the anxieties that go through will come true. A senator and his party are completely unfounded, believing that the evidence already available supports my view. I don't think that if you take one sentence from one legal entity and dissociate it, it doesn't change that conclusion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u95	Madam President. You're right next door. paritaprevir The year - to - Ármannsson Birgir has already referred to a number of data. Among the data referred to here today are data that I can see no better than that, despite the fact that other findings have been presented here today, there are no data in this case at all. A news report on the control board where Professor Stefán Stefánsson expresses himself on this matter, as it were at the highest level. Minister fired earlier, do you think he's part of the evidence? Looks like it's not in the follow-up papers. Displaying something online is not the value of accessory documents. I have no doubt about it. paritaprevir For replacements like me, a Birgir's Ármannsson can explain it if I'm being wrong. Then I reiterate what is the main ingredient in this assignment I moved here: I don't think legal uncertainty has been destroyed. It is still legal to argue and question. I think this case, of the magnitude of my life, is not normal for me to be passed through the Allied Council of Iceland while such doubts are still under way. I think if it's so terribly innocent as men would like to make this legal opinion seem to be much more uniform at the end of the day. It is arranged that while our best men are still communicating in different ways, there is something we should consider. I don't think it's such a rush. If it's so harmless and it doesn't matter, now it's part of the case, it's hardly a rush to drive it through.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u96	V.E.G. President. I'm not exactly sure how the document management is in these matters. However, I refer to the package 16 that can be found on the II Parliament's website as a common understanding of the value of the third energy package. And there's a press release from the State Department on that subject. Of course, what matters is that the matter is now coming to treatment here at the Council. There is a chance to ask the scholars and other experts in this area exactly what they think. There is some evidence that the path selected here is in line with one recommendation, including the following: of StefánMár Stefánsson and Friðrik of the Árni Friðriksson Hirst. They can then explain to a panel whether they are not responding to their decision that it is a means to do so. [[The president calls.]] But I note that they were lawyers who were the most concerned about the administrative factors while all the other scholars on this mountain who had the opportunity were much more carefree, so to speak, on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u97	President wants to encourage them. Councilmen to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u98	Madam President. I just have to talk my heart out. Hv. paritaprevir However, the Birgir son of an Ármannsson, whom I think is considered to be extremely well - spoken, cannot eliminate the uncertainty from my heart. If this case was simple, it should have been successful long ago. I mention here, just to prove that among those who doubt these are men like Frosti Sigurjónsson, The Guðni of Ágústsson, Haraldur Ólafsson, Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, Hirrundur Guttormsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u99	Are these lawyers?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u100	No, I'm quoting... I'm sorry it's coming from the back room. Would you please give us a name, the one calling in? So it's possible to log the forward call? I think only natural is when men who have had a lot of experience in working for the Allied Parliament and the legislatures and the Senate hearings, when they have so much doubt, I think it's normal for us to listen. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u101	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorgrímur's Sigmundsson before the speech. He covered many parts of his talk and expressed his concern. I agree with what. A senator that it is entirely available to have doubts about every matter that comes in here. It is important that we, as a council, carefully review all the arguments presented there. I totally agree with that. Hv. A member of the council commented on the opinion of Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, and others. He chose, in my opinion, what he thought was most supportive of his cause, and I can totally look through my finger with it. But we must naturally look to the conclusion at the end of the poll. The senator also complained that in the hearings here, they had noted that Stefán Már had a web site, likely in the Board of Directors, spoken much more clearly about this solution, and complained that it was not a Senate document, which is right among the senator's members. But then I'd like to ask, "Well, much. " If Stefánsson repeats this opinion on the website for the Council Committee that will handle the matter, would a senator accept StefánMár case?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u102	Madam President. I'm gonna start at the end of business anyway. Because it was kind of the only question, if I've been paying close attention. The rest were coming to what I said. Some of them went wrong. A senator's subject, and so on, he questioned. Then he asks, and that's the exit point, whether I'll agree, the text that is published on the control board.is, the same person's opinion before the committee. That's how I understand the question. In fact, if I had long-term questions, I find rather difficult. However, I find it much more important if it comes as an expert opinion or as a package. Then, of course, it's more important, huh? A senator, but as a text on a web site, even if the site is controlrad.is. That's what I feel about it. I'm glad to hear it. A senator should also confirm what I thought I knew, though he had significantly less experience in such cases, that, of course, it is not a part of the agreement, as it was claimed today. Hv. paritaprevir After completing his talk for their claim, the Ólafur Ísleifsson of Ishoffreus was simply presented with rudeness. It was held to its full feet. It just turns out on the same day that it doesn't make sense. I don't think it's acceptable to such a big deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u103	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. He heard my question correctly and gave it a fine answer. The Senator also said that he had difficulty communicating about what happened in the future. But the members of the Central Party had no problem predicting what will happen if this council proposal is adopted. Let it be between parts. Hv. A senator spoke even. and that we would not have to introduce any of the types through canals and railroads and such. The members of the Central Party have had the word that if we consent to this type, we will be forced to take a sea cable. Does the senator think that if we had the built-in forms of a canal and railroad that the European Union would have forced us to build railroads and canals in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u104	Madam President. The answer is no. I don't think we'd have been forced to park a canal, which is a metaphor that I'm not the only one using in this council hall. I am convinced, however, that if the Icelanders at any point decided to give some joint European institution with an overnational power to control other resources, e.g. Fishing for the resource, we would not be here today as a nation. I think it's a key factor that we look forward to having all the keys on the subject for ourselves. If the best evidence for this matter is harmful, I don't realize the weight on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u105	Madam President. I had, and of course, I've been quite concerned about the induction of the third energy package. That's what I did. A year and so began working a lot to study and to understand what it was learning. One of the things I did was to ask you a very detailed question, a question to the highest level. Secretary of state for 14 teams. I hope so. A senator has been able to learn this because he might now be able to help. Then there was a request to the highest level. The Minister of Industrial Affairs on the same subject that I hope all members of Congress have been able to study. This is my way of going through the matter and studying it, trying to understand what it means. In case of a moment. Congress officials come forward and say it's a conning world, such as it is. paritaprevir Sigmundsson said in his speech, and then writing answers to very detailed inquiries are not relevant. Then, in itself, a highly legal opinion from many legalists is of little importance. I wonder what. A senator finds somewhere in the third energy directive that it is under the responsibility of the Icelandic government to convene a cable. It seems to me that what I'm doing is what I'm doing. A senator and other members of Parliament are quite worried about this, and I understand that. Where are they laid, and in what way? It'd be nice to have a good time. A senator would inform me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u106	Madam President. It's 25 years never, no. It seems that this should only be the next 25 years, even though I already have a case in my case. those who speak in the way of the case were wrong. It is called wrong when documents are called package leaflets that are not included in the package leaflets. Things start out in the first round with no buttons on something I would have thought, because I haven't had a lot of experience in this room, being a complete formality, that men with decades of experience didn't go crazy on this kind of thing. I'll find out in the first round that even on these crazy guys. But I'm gonna say what. Kárason I have to admit that I didn't hear the last question well enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u107	Where in the energy package are we put down to lay the cables?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u108	Thank you. There is nothing in the third pack of energy that involves the repair of a cable. It is quite clear, however, which ways are being opened and which way the power is moving. I think everyone would agree on this subject. We'll see exactly which direction things are developing. It's about to start bringing the power from the elected representatives of the Icelanders. I'm not gonna keep this for a while. I'm guessing that's what. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason's had some more questions for me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u109	Madam President. Nowhere in the third energy directive are we doing it or affect the way we use our energy resources. Nor are we being subjected to any pressure when it comes to the possible fixation of a cable, which is one of the key elements here that we need the approval of the General Assembly. When Már quote Stefánsson Motorsson and what's a package and what's not, I think I have, for example. Quoting what is stated on the Ministry of State, or rather stated by the Council of State on Stefán Motor Stefánsson, he agrees and confirms that his opinion and Friðrik's Árni of Friðriksson, which pointed to a possible route that has gone, is in line with the opinion of the body of opinion that is in this Senate, the body of Congress that is established here. So I don't understand, now I may have misjudged myself or someone else today when this document was quoted, in this umsögn to Stefán, the Már of Stephen, who appeared on the Board's web, which is merely a confirmation of their position. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u110	Madam President. I'm thinking, so I'll use a word that's popular with what's wrong. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason's son, that this was not a miscommunication that fell here today. Rather, I think it was deliberately used to try to minimize the credibility of the person speaking in the language, to point out that the person had not studied the case. It wasn't like that. The person had studied all the documents on the subject, but what was quoted was not among them. In nature, the matter is no more complex than that. That was no miscommunication.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u111	Who said that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-08-90.u112	This was shown twice today. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur's Ísleifsson called in to ask for confirmation that this was in a Senate document, and he was answered yes. So if this has been a miscommunication, there have been repeated failures.
