ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u1	V.E.G. President. I would like to quote from Sigurður, Oddsson engineer in the morning article, May 16, page 16 of which I would like to quote: The third energy package discussion reminds us of Steingrímur, who made a deal with Jóhanna and the Community on entry into the EU. Yes, and in spite of all the assurances that VG would never accept entry into the EU. This time, the government groups all seem to have written a paradigm in some incomprehensible way, contrary to their own policy and against their national will. During some bridal period, members of the government have led themselves to believe that the matter that has been discussed for several days is well developed. I don't know what causes, but I do need much conviction when the Constitution, sovereignty, and national interests are at stake, conviction or brainwashing of the European Union and officials, whose main dream is that we are selling ourselves under national authority. If it doesn't, it'll happen gradually. And the question is, how do you eat an elephant? Yeah, you only take one bite at a time. Granted, the person standing here has eaten many elephants in kilograms, but he has not made any stomach pains because one bite has been taken at a time and cannot see you. I allow me to quote again in the same article, by permission of the president: ▪ Those who reject the third energy package feel that with his approval, we will take control of the energy resource without being replaced. Today we can, for example. Requesting proposals in green energy for the buyer to build the factory here and set as a condition to accept any offer and that 1) environmental protection and 2) will have the most important value of energy. We can request an offer from anywhere in the world and not just from the EU countries, as will be done with the approved package. We accept the third package, and the orc will leave the country to build up companies that we would like to get to ourselves. The value of production will be on the mainland and not on our side. Instead, we will continue to receive polluted industrial industry, which will attract countries. Land activation will be able to sell extra energy and gain higher prices when big business agreements expire. In turn, there will be high energy prices for households and companies. Those who want to accept the third energy package say it doesn't matter. It's not for us, it's not for the EEA. Why, then, is it being approved? What did we get with the first and second energy packets other than the cost as a foundation was laid for a cable? They also say that there is no danger that a cable will be laid. This conflicts with the microindustry business and the trade of foreign stocks in energy efficiency. These participants would not invest like this if they were not sure that a cable would be laid. Increased pressure will come from them as soon as the third energy package is approved. Then there is the fourth and fifth energy package requiring to tear down the national property. The Prime Minister agrees that in the third energy package there is no risk of sea cable fixation, since in the contract there is a prerequisite for the approval of the General Assembly. Is it prerogative to take the chance of playing with the nation's shores, confident that the Allied Council will defend the sovereignty? I'm asking.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u2	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It's very good to have some. A senator into the debate at this point, for he may see a part in just another light, in a new light I would say, and it is very useful for us, members of the Central Party, who have been trying to get to the bottom of all this together without getting any answers from those who support the case or any additional support for those who want it to be accepted by the World Council. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator mentioned a minor operation. It is true that such fortresses are now under intense pressure. But there's another thing I've done to talk about before, and I would love to get the opinion of it. There is a very sudden and intense interest in building so - called wind - power gardens or windmills here. This is an enormous project. Windmills are no small man, and they need a lot of tension around them, a road between them, and, of course, electrical connections, and a huge sink below every windmill so much that this has not been a competitive energy response to the cost of energy in Iceland, i.e. The prices of which the public in Iceland and businesses have had access to. Suddenly, this great interest in building windmill gardens is sparked, and I assume that energy prices are going to rise, and that's why they think it's too black for us now. [[The president calls.]] Counts 'em out. A senator that this can come together?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u3	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson for answering. He says it's good to get senators to shed fresh light on the discussion, and it may be that since I'm coming from a half month's vacation, I've had something piled up and I can turn on new lights. It was very welcome and, in fact, good to be back too. In connection with wind mills and the energy wind mills provide, they have been developing in this country for quite some time and are now beginning to develop in the direction of man's getting better tools. To date, many of these windmills have been maintained and are often difficult to maintain in terms of these and other factors. But it has also caught my attention that those who speak most of the pollution have little now, all of a sudden, referring to the fact that windmills, if they can be hidden in some demolition in a country where few have beaten things in their eyes. I think it's a little quiet. But there can be no doubt about competitive energy and energy prices that buying electricity from windmills requires higher energy prices. I'm not quite aware of that, but I might be able to tell myself that, considering the cost of putting this up and going. There are a number of factors that determine electrical prices, and that discussion has taken place right now for justification, as if electrical prices will rise.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u4	Mr. President. This is to add that on a map published by the European Union that the future energy policy, after all these targets are achieved by the third energy package, Iceland is expected to be linked to the European Electricity market and produced electricity mainly in three ways; by hydropower activations, geological activations, and windmills, this third strength is to be added. This has been used as a rational support for sea cables, I think even by Landic activation, that these are primarily to be expected when the country is connected, i.e. with increased wind gas, so I think there's still one clue that it's all connected. But I was going to ask. A senator asked about something else because he asked: "Is the General trust to defend the country's sovereignty? Then I thought of words of the highest degree. Prime Minister in question class, probably yesterday or tomorrow - it is difficult to discern which day is what. V.E.G. The Minister then claimed that it would always come to the General's attention regarding the possibility of a trajectory. In fact, today's the highest correction has been made. A minister in this regard, but the thought that made a person's mind was this: If the Allied Council cannot be trusted to promote the common people's will in this principle, the General will be the same as the Council, then can be trusted to bring the sea cables to the finish? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u5	V.E.G. President. It's a pretty tight question and a good question, whether the General will be trustworthy in the decision to fix a sea cable, and I'll allow me to question it after trying to figure out how this induction is conducted, the Senate resolution and the bills that follow in the case. It seems that it is not absolutely crystal clear how to perform it. I also allow myself to doubt that the Council will have the authority to do so as soon as possible. I'm not alone with a cable, as long as it's all on our terms, but then we also have to get up and be able to make decisions about that, with the best interests of Icelanders. It is vital for us in all this wealth of energy here, as it were. A senator, with power of water, a geotherms, and growing wind milling, that we have the power to promote land and nation and, if we want, sell our energy differently than I would think it would be a new place to build up here for land and nation, employment, and so on. This is pure energy, and this is the spine in our society, in our nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u6	Mr. President. That's right, that's right. A senator, this is the vertebrae of our nature, and therefore perhaps a bit of a surprise, and not only a bit of surprise but also a little surprise, it seems that it seems that members of the VG, who are actually at the front of our team and one of the most hardened in their support of this matter, do not take note of this effect on Icelandic nature as a massive structure of windmill gardens and minor inactivations. That's why I want to review that matter with a sense of urgency. Senator. Has he explained the change of left green, once an environmental class but now a marketal group in energy matters? Well, maybe. A senator made it clear to us that members of the council were being oppressed in this matter? This is really a key question to me because at least the WG members who have addressed this matter have not been raised, and then I am talking about the first. because no one has come here in the second, but it stood out from some independent council that they had been in doubt but had been purchased as a partnership with this power package with these ruined warnings. So I didn't say hello to a man at VG, so I'd like to ask him why. A senator: Does he realize what may have caused VG's members to have a cool hold on their stand so completely?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u7	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's answer. No, I don't realize it, and I'm amazed by the news, and really with the government as a whole, the classes that exist in it. In itself, it is not surprising if you look at the wide appeal that is always being discussed, perhaps it is just a common decision to lean back in soft chairs. I don't know, it's hard to say what people think until they start talking. The large development of activation initiatives, as observed by the senator, and the conversion of the left greens to the contrary, as it is evident that this structure will be intensified if this energy package is passed through and the next energy packets that follow, it is also surprising that after a few times in 2013-2016 in all the noises that were then of activation, frame, and other items of the left, even though they were in the framed, benefits of the strategy. They did everything they could to stop it all. Now even more is being said. It refers to increased geologic structure and then wind mills. I can't tell you how men are within the chest with them in these categories. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u8	Mr. President. I'm pretty much at odds with what. A senator and I think exactly what we're looking at is this wide appeal behind us. It's so wide, I think it's just there. As a result of this, because we're talking about a massive projection, both wind milling parks and microdoers that don't have to go to environmental assessment, using proben, I think it's pretty clear that the cost of the energy produced by wind is worth a lot greater than the price we've been producing energy in the last few decades. The more likely it is that those who are involved in this grand building plan to sell their energy to a local market at a higher price than they have recently known or whether they are far along in their plans to see that they are fully equipped to land a sea cable. I'd like to pray. A senator reviewing it with us whether he considers it more likely of the two, on the one hand, that these more expensive energy will be sold into the domestic market, which means higher prices to those who use it, or if he considers it likely to be absolutely safe that sea cables will be placed here and that they can sell their energy through spherical cables instead of being used here for industrial development.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u9	V.E.G. President. When you have discussed possible, and indeed indeed, risking electricity prices to rise, and people have quoted what happened when a pack of energy was introduced, the prices increased, is also being included in this package, the equation of electrical prices within the Union. Then it must have to be equal in this country, too, for that state. You have heard of those with the package that there is no risk of an increase in electricity prices, but there may be more monitoring costs and other costs that follow the change rather than the amount of electricity. I think that's a quiet explanation because when we add them together, we'll have to get a larger number, we'll get an increase in the cost of monitoring, increase the rate of services, or the county costs will increase the bill after all the numbers have been combined. There's a little dusting in the eyes of those who ask these questions. Yes, electronic prices to consumers in this country will probably rise, and if a cable comes, I don't realize how it's going to develop, but it's gonna be some common insurance price, I think it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u10	Mr. President. Now it's time for me to complete my discourse on the interaction of different EU regulations. It's a speech I started. night, failed to finish. Then she was lost this morning, but now she's been found again. This discussion is followed by a lot of magazines, and unlike the warning, I can continue my presentation. I especially want to know that although this material was for a long time in my mind, it was a comment and an indication. paritaprevir Gauti Hjaltason on these subjects, which moved me to offer one speech, which, in fact, will be two, this subject. This is an enormous issue in the context of the parts, although it may not sound very exciting, especially with this third energy package, because it often looks beyond the fact that by a new order it does not have an independent life. It begins to play together with the existing rulework, and not only in this case in energy sector, but also to form in the field of competition and in the general market of this EEA contract. Of course, doing so can make it somewhat unpredictable any final and real effect of such induction. Yet, it is important to keep in mind, and perhaps it has the greatest explanation, that all of this is very objective in the European Union. It can be said that with a steady addition of regulations, the European Union is preparing the soil for achieving its main objectives. Therefore, most important of all would be to look to the main objectives and, in the case of the third energy package, to look at the main objectives of the integration of the European energy system and the potential for breaking up large power companies and increasing access to renewable energy. I recall, Mr. President, when I was an employee at the Kingdom News Office early this century, at the beginning of the century, the news agency had a copy of the original form of the EEA Convention. It had been printed in one four volumes. Three of them were the deal themselves, and then there were some documents in the fourth. These were not large volumes, they were half-baked brochures, four brochures. That was the EEA deal. Since then, this agreement has continued to increase with new regulations in countless ways, including the following: areas that we Icelanders may not have assumed would come under this agreement. I don't know how big the deal is now, how many shelf meters of space it needs, but it keeps growing. Down here the council is constantly streaming up new regulations and must not be considered separately. That's why I felt strange, and I don't doubt that the highest. The President's been surprised, like me, already. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir said that the fourth energy package had nothing to do with the third, and it'd just take a look later. Not only are these energy packages clearly linked to all of them, but they are linked to regulations that have to do with energy control of the entire other principle as well. Once again, it is the simplest way to understand what is about to be considered. The European Court is a very objective drive. It's an old controversies around here. It's famous that for the U.S. Supreme Court, you will be able to handle it, and you've done about hundreds of years, whether to interpret clearly, i.e. look to the law itself, or whether to interpret the law from its aims. In Europe it is clear that once again the aims of the third energy package have proved to be the dominant and goal of the third energy package should be designed to make us Iceland more concerned and sufficient for us to sit down and look into it, wait for the information to be expected, and will likely explain the effect further. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u11	Mr. President. I'd like to ask you what. A senator thanking him for the case he now made. I somehow felt that he was speaking on the lines that we have at times discussed in this discussion about how the European Union seems to have tendens to feed humans in teaspoons, so that each type of the other is introduced and slowly and slowly, and the knot, to the type of person who takes it, was able to penetrate. I thought I'd pray. A senator to review only with regard to the first, second and third energy package of the European Union that we have actually received in the teaspoons, that I think, and how he sees the induction in Iceland as they have been going on in the last few years, since 2003, most likely when the first one was introduced to 2008, when the second one was introduced with great shocks and should never have been, and until now we are fighting that the third energy package will be created on Icelandic terms with real warnings and then see the sparks in the fourth of last night and the fifth horizon. I'd like to pray. A senator is only going over the first three and how they gave it to us in the teaspoons. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u12	Mr. President. That's a good question. Indeed, looking at evolution up to this point gives us indications of what is to be expected. True, the first and second energy package was not nearly as burdensome as the person we are now discussing, and they were, in fact, physically. They consisted of the directives called electrical commands, not even a package of energy was named until it was recycled by the third package. It was called the European Union's energy directive. The difference between EU directives and regulations is that directives provide far more freedom to adapt the directives to the local setting. Nevertheless, some of them were deeply concerned, many of whom, when they arrived late in the last century and at the beginning of this period, I think that it is safe to say. It is particularly interesting to consider the discussion of the second energy package, as it is now known. The first was primarily to define electrical energy as product and thereby to address the various requirements of the EEA Treaty, which represent just my discussion in the past, that by specifying electricity as product, a wide range of other terms of the agreement that have to do with business through products. Then there was the second electrical directive, and there was much doubt there by members of different categories and, for example, by members of Congress. very familiar to read an interview in the 2002 morning newspaper with Björn Bjarnason, the present senator, who warns about a number of factors, rising energy prices, etc. and then it all happened during the day. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u13	Mr. President. One of the wonderful things we've been doing here while discussing the third energy package is the corrosive transformation of opinions that has occurred in those who were more critical of them, i.e. To the first and to the second, and to devour to them the third, as though he were sent from heaven. I think of it as being the leading of an equal. The president of the Parliament who gave one wind - up talk after another, and he gave strong warnings about the first and second energy package, but he is now prepared to become the head of the third to be picked up, not only by resorting but by blasts. Today, left greens are being led in the market of national energy resources. I'd like to pray. To illustrate what he thinks happened with the left green in this case, which was a very large number during the assembly when the first and second decree was taken and opposed. Some have thought so, princes like Jónasson, former whales. A senator who strongly opposes our bringing in the third, while others have jumped on this wagon and are eager to introduce the third pack of energy, even though they were against the first and second. The first, of course, was the basis for this. They may have been relatively innocent when compared with that one. Or what does it say? A senator of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u14	Mr. President. Hv. A senator mentions one of the great puzzles in the matter. What happened? We've been trying to figure that out. In many areas, we have been successful in this discussion, getting closer to the point, one of the big unsolved riddles. What happened, especially within the left hand movement, a green supply? I know that many former members of that party are as surprised as they are. Since there is no response to any members of the party, the discussion does not help us to do so. They do not express themselves, in fact, with one exception. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, who had made quite a statement about the third energy package and criticized it, is actually not participating in a discussion of the matter, but at times has been brought up in discussions about the President's conference board to be ashamed that we are discussing the matter. In view of the problem. At the same time, a senator asks what happened with the left green and what we can learn from our experience would I like to take a moment from a 2002 morning report about a second pack of energy and to quote to the then left-steer, the Árni Steinar Jóhannsson, representing the category of the International Industrial Committee. He says, with the permission of the President, the state of electricity in Europe is completely different from that of this country. ▪ We in the left movement ◯ Green supply, we view the electricity system in this country as a social basis, to be thought of. ▪ We view it as one of the continents of the United States.◯ There's the one. A senator, I think, may be said, in effect, to point in two things that I thought were the main attitude of the left green in this matter. On the one hand, he is protesting the market of energy, however, to indicate that it was crucial to the development of employment life around the country. [[The president calls.]] It would be wish left green people would review their previous statements and accept them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u15	Mr. President. I'm going in this speech to complete my review of the origin of electrical power. I hope I can finish my review because I've been asked a lot about that subject lately. After reviewing the history of the fortresses in Iceland, there have been questions about connection and how much of the geologic activations are and how much of their power is in the country. I'll be in the next speech, if I finish my discussion on the origin responsibilities, discussing the history of the geologists. I think that there will be only one or two things to do with it. I will seek to be with requests for that subject. I have discussed legal warnings, since I seem to be in a spontaneous business to look for the legal advance introduced by the management department to the international government, and particularly to the management team itself, and said that it was the basis for this implementation of the European Union's energy directives would be successful. That search is ongoing. I've been busy with other assignments today, but I've heard things from other sources. The last clue I heard of was from what I heard. paritaprevir The village Þorsteinn of Víglundsson. It was quite interesting that he pointed out that he did not agree with many others who have shown up in other ways. But there's an opinion, and I'll be reporting it as soon as it's been investigated. Regarding the origin of electrical energy, which is proof, only a letter or an electronic document that can prove that paper-based electricity is produced for renewable energy, I was going to tell you that for sales of these Witnesses, there are four companies who have been selling these certificates in this country. I would discuss some of it, e.g. to deal with the share of Legislation, which is the largest power company in the world. I had already told you that last year, 2018, a company estimated that an Icelandic company would sell responsibilities for 800 to 850 million. K. It will also be part of the Land-activation procedure and will be expressed in response to my query to the highest degree. Tourism, innovation and industrial Affairs Ministers a few weeks ago, that of this sale the object of Land induction is the largest. It says, by permission of the president: In accordance with land induction data, land induction income is estimated to be about 600 billion for sale of the source-relevant electricity. K. began in 2018. - 600 million of total sales total, 800,850, so this is about three quarters of the total sales of domestic energy companies. - --Lands activation has made responsibilities of the overall sale of the past few years, without charge, so home and company in Iceland can confirm that they use energy from 100% renewable energy sources. That's what it says in answer to the highest. Minister, with permission of presidents: However, a social network needs to call for a certificate of origin from a small sales salesman. It is not given that the customers of Landings can assume that they are able to present this background proof of responsibility, but they need to call for it. This is because it may be sold out. Some day, in my opinion, the local company has to pay for this proof because if they're uprooted and all sold abroad, Icelandic companies will have to compete on this market or later, if they want to prove the source of the energy for their clients, which could be foreign people who will insist on making the products they buy from renewable energy sources. I think I've finished this tour, but I'd like to say, with the permission of the President, if I have time to -- the energy source is considered a resource, but it's also viewed the purity of the energy donors as an independent resource. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u16	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an interesting series of speeches on the origination of energy that I've observed with interest, which is closely related to the goals of the third energy package. We see that humans are already laying the groundwork for its full impact, including the rest of the human race. by the integration of Europe's electrical energy system and the sale of energy from one common pot with this originization, which is, in my opinion, for which it cannot be done if all Europe's energy systems have been linked together and all attends the same pot. But I'm gonna ask what. A senator on something else, about what he mentioned in his talk, and we have mentioned here from time to time. It's the search for the warning. I wanted to ask you why. A senator may have noticed that today he was making a new witness claiming to have seen in the prefect of the job committee, believed that he was in progress there. Took it. A senator after the unexpected visit. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson and his revelations? Can help. Or is it time for a senator to give up on his search and decide that the defense does not exist?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u17	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. His main concern was the search for the warning. Men ask me the question repeatedly, and it is a self - appointed business, which I did not take in at the beginning, to go looking for warning. Of course, it's not my place to answer this, is it? Senator. We ask questions, and it's the members of the board, the council and the government to answer. It is the leadership of the government that introduces the issue of the third EU energy directive, introduces the high order of drumming that now the matter is solved, man can lay down defense, man has nothing to worry about. Why? People take off their hat and what's there? Legal notice. This is how it's introduced. Legal notice? Here he is, here he is. Then when they're going to explain this, they're going to be a lot of stories, as they say in police research. They become a lot of stories, people point in every direction. I've heard it before. The senator concluded that this is the day of witness, why. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson and his testimony were in such a way that the captain was searching for a professional committee. I've heard it before, and I specifically asked for it in the interview because it seems that the middle class has a representative on the job committee. I asked one of our deputies there, why. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Ishun, whether he had seen this warning, whether he had been on the committee. He did not recognize it, he was actually on the committee, and he promised that he would look for him, perhaps at his next committee meeting and inquire if he was there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u18	Mr. President. I am disappointed that testimony is of no greater benefit. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, whose heart is full of witnesses, lives in the hope of receiving new information that can shed some light on this. But what I cut especially at the end of the day. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson's testimony was that he mentioned that the warning was not yet ready. He felt that he was in operation at the Committee, and then of course the question arises: If that is the case, if the answer is there, and the further infusion will reveal why, on the other hand, the government would expect us members to agree with the third energy package in advance without presenting the warning? Is that a line that goes up? Could it be considered in any way that the normal order of parts is to inform members that it is safe to accept a large, controversial case, the third energy package, because it has come first but will not introduce it until after the case has been resolved? If this is the case, if the job management committee is in progress, from all places, and at any time appeared, then the problem will be. So a senator has some theory of how things are arranged in this way, to expect the council to agree first and then to see the warning?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u19	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For that thought and question, did Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, win? It is a well - known objection to research that those who have something to hide in all directions and become biography. It is well - known in their studies, and there is no new indication in any direction when looking for things they may not know or are trying to hide. In this case, of course, nothing is true because the case is presented to the nation and especially to the government, who, as soon as it was said, would do this but by legal instructions, was the key authority. The management team has had no testimony or demonstration to explain this to us at the government stand, or the government opposition that operates at the council, which is only one category at this time, but most of all, they have not had the opportunity to explain this to the nation to understand. What does that mean? Does this mean that there is nothing behind it, nothing to find, no help in making a search for a job committee because there is nothing there? Is that what you're supposed to believe? They point out that this is in the work of a professional committee, but our representative's statement has been that they did not warn him. This is serious. The government must be able to explain to the people what legal warnings, where they are, what they are, and what they include, and at last, what their value is. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u20	Mr. President. That's exactly what I do with the last word. A senator says that the government is incapable of presenting this matter to the nation. That's a point I've been recording this evening. I have already said that it in itself is the government's duty to introduce the energy package so that the public can understand. It's complicated. A little time and effort must be spent. In fact, when the people on the street were interviewed, the news on the Kingdom News showed that there was a further presentation in this case before they were run through, as it seems they're going to do now. I just wanted to get into it with a bang. A senator, asking him to give his vision of it to us because he has already stated that sometimes there are and may not, and is not, and is naturally hopeless and powerless, as we have seen. But I wanted to ask what. A senator as to what he believes the government and the more part of the General Assembly and the following satellites can do to explain this matter in a careful way to the nation so that the public can realize before this case is run through and finally agree, if so, what the consequences will have on his life and his descendants. I'd like to pray. A senator about going over it for us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u21	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson for his questions and his meditation on this. To answer, of course, there is a requirement for self - examination when it comes to presenting matters, bills, or terms that concern the nation and its interests, as in this matter, the future of the nation's energy resources, its use, its provision, and its organization. Of course, when presenting this case to be a game, that the European Union's regulations for these resources are to be introduced here, it needs to make a requirement to the government that they can explain to the government opposition, as well as to the nation, understandablely. Especially the basic legal structure, which is the so - called legal arrangement. It should be easy to explain to the people in human language. A senator, so people understand what's meant. But when asked about it and becoming a history of many things, a person gets caught off guard. But the rest is equally interesting in the earlier part of the government of government and is made up of several categories here at the council - interesting and unusual for any form of criticism. These groups appear here at the General Assembly, launch weapons at the outset, claiming to accept the energy directive without criticism. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u22	Mr. President. Yeah, that's exactly what you've scratched in your head. True, we know that the union groups have no desire more than to get into the state of happiness and, in themselves, are willing to do anything, and they have nothing else to do. It's the same sort of speech. It is in itself no matter what the matter is being discussed here at the council; the solution is always to flee to the European Union's arms as cold as it is now. So it's not surprising. What comes as a surprise, however, is a reversal party like the left green, which has so completely turned around that the oldest men do not remember an alternative as in such short time as the man said. I wanted to ask you what. A senator. First, about turning left green. Second, I'd like to ask. A senator, because he is the man who has gone one of the longest in trying to find the truth about this so - called advance. We have claimed that these decrees were originally used to catch up with this case, then members of Congress, for example. The Independence Party, one of the most negative or ambiguous of the issue. I'd like to ask you what. The senator, whether he believes that the warnings may be so vague and unconcerned because they have initially been thinking, not to get involved in lawsuits, but to use pressure or deception to get them to follow this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u23	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. I have to tell you what. A senator on behalf of those who have taken part in this investigation and who have tried to look for these warnings, and perhaps he will be disappointed, that there are not many warnings at all. First of all, the study has not shown whether there is one or more. This is unclear or uninformed. We thought, if it was yesterday, that we had no doubt located that in the Department of Employment and Development, he was in the form of drawing up to the Regulation that Minister was preparing to sign. We had become quite certain of what we were doing. But then new information, like today, comes new information, for example. ... fromwhat. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson, the fact that this case is in the business committee. So the test gets swingy every day, and it's starting to get exciting. I welcome all those who can assist us in this regard. But with regard to the former government opposition, which has now become part of the board in this case: When it is introduced, as we are very busy talking about, about the legal warning that has been revealed that no one really knows where he is, where he is, and what his content is, and what his effect will be, whether there is any restraint on him if there is anything on it, the government spirit that used to be entered the procession on the first day. She jumped into the parade where it was drumming that it was so good, and the guards would think, was so great. They jumped in without criticism, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u24	Mr. President. There are two things I would like to offer in this talk. First, I'd like to review the comments of the European Union of Iceland, which were sent to the State Department in connection with the contribution of this case on the third energy package. The review says, with the permission of a president: GDP is a basic service and should not, in the opinion of the European Union of Iceland, be subject to individual market leaders. Electricity is required on public custody and should not be treated like any other product on the market. Therefore, ASI estimates that the market has already been too far and too far and further in that direction. Electricity is the basis for our existence today, and it is our community responsibility to ensure production and transport to all, the responsibility for the market to use machines is too high to end, the market has generally not improved services, reduced prices, or improved staff status. It is essential for the continuing development of quality of life to have the possession of resources in the community and for all of us to benefit from the use of the resources and to take advantage of our own energy to build up jobs here on the country. It has previously been observed in this discussion that Land Protection did not give a review of this matter, but it has also been officially stated that the former Director of Land Protection, Guðmundsson, is opposed to the recording of the third energy package. He has made it very clear in public. In order to make all the facts known, Mr. President, to prevent Guðmundur Guðmundsson, who is a very useful boy and advocated, will be subject to harassment that unnecessaryly I would like to state that he is not in any way associated with the Central Party. It is as far away from the Middle Party's opinions in many things as it can be, so I hope that it will not be hit by the leather because it has stepped forward and claimed to be opposed to this energy package. Throughout history, he has put out blogs, which are very careful and well-examined. He's talking, for example. in the introduction from June 2017, by permission of the President, on the overinvestigation of the industry and that overinvestigation was likely the main factor in creating instability in the Icelandic economy. He says that in the 1960's, inflation, gangfall, oka and unemployment have usually been followed by excessive overinvestment, for instance, for silencing and cod fishing during the following decade, overinvestment in the banking system, etc. He says that overinventing is a sign of an unhealthy and corrupt business and political relationship in Iceland. He's an example of Reykjavík's energy company. There, the rate of personal reforms was higher by a 48% increase in electricity prices in 2011 and a 68% increase in transport costs, because of man's overexploitation to market areas as much as possible. He also points out that today there is an excessive overinvestment of plans for the line layers. For example, in Northern countries it has been observed that the Icelandic electrical energy system, the electrical transport system, is too expensive when compared with the formation of Norway. He wants to argue that the Landsnet still operates in the spirit of archipelago, warning that overinvestment is being initiated in shipping lines, and he expects it to be done in part by seeing, in short or within reach, that sea cables become reality.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u25	Mr. President. It is interesting to examine the views of the European Union of Iceland and, in fact, more workers in the labour market, especially the labor movement side, but not just the discussion that took place in Norway, where the extremely strong Norwegian public organization was strongly opposed to the third energy package. The labor group, closely linked to that organization, had serious doubts about this package. It makes sense to you when you consider the concerns of the package induction and the marketing areas of energy that are expected to be involved. Because now this so - called market economy has not always been particularly effective, in fact, often very ill, and has led to indignity and increase in prices rather than the other. I mention, for example, the developments in the United States during the 1990's to form in California, where market competition was attempted and exactly where it bought energy. Then there was a business like Enron. In fact,ron had already produced energy from two energy companies, but he began to concentrate on selling energy, and natural gas as well, electricity, and gas. But the result was no better for consumers, and eventually, Enron, as known, went too far to bet on the energy market. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u26	Mr. President. Yes, it's a very needed tip and a good case that goes by. Senator. This may be exactly what we've been warning about in the recent discussion, because the system this has been run for a very long time, based on landactivation having a sector of 70% market share, Vista Reykjavík with 20% and Southnesia 10% - and it's now been retrieving Southnesia heat supply from huge hands. Despite its lack of official property, it is up to 50% owned by the Icelandic Pension Fund, which in itself should ensure that the public is benefiting from its operation. But now, as it appears, foreign investors who want to invest here very much, as the news goes on, in the wind power parks and in microactivations that are also in the United States holding companies, will not fail to be a mere human interest. There are so many small pieces that collect into the puzzle. Now, I think last week, the Farice string was moved out of parentheses for Landing. The question is, Is it being prepared for sale or exchange, either for Farice or for the exchange of land activation? What are they getting ready for? So there are some things that are not open to you. However, in view of recent experience with energy problems - i.e. for a request from the person here regarding the cost of land activation during the past ten years to prepare for a cable that I hope will receive an answer - a variety of small bites gather and make a person rather suspicious of this matter. [[The president calls.]] Or what does it say? A senator of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u27	President. Yeah, I think there's a pretty good chance that there's a direct link between Farice separation and Land activation and the induction of the third energy package. However, this is something that we need to do, and it is most important to refer directly to the regulations involved in this matter. It is just part of the third energy package's goal to break up such activities, so it's out of the same company. I feel like I'm directly involved. This is also a reminder that in this energy package there is a great problem for Iceland due to Icelandic conditions. It is a small nation in a large country, and it seems pretty obvious to you that the only thing we know is to try to do things that are now expensive, in a way that the manpower and the capacity for transport are useful to everyone. This can be done by the arrangement we have had here. But if this is going to be a competition between different enterprises, I'm not talking about foreign enterprises mixed, and then some are even selling to foreign countries, it's expected that there's a lot of problems in the system. In addition to what would have been needed, people made investments beyond what was necessary and, of course, collected a price according to that requirement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u28	Mr. President. That's right. And this is exactly what the fine man I mentioned here, Guðmundsson, was doing in a fine blog article at the time and then published the other day. He drew it up that overinvestment, e.g. in the power market, it will always lead to the least, i.e. home and business, paying for that overinvest. He made it all right. I agree with what the question says. The senator, of course, is the danger that when you come in here expensive parties and want to set up, for example. a very large wind plant will become overinvented, which Iceland will somehow pay off the cost. This is perhaps the risk that you seem to be directly involved with the third energy package, which is an additional concern to the whole other, in the way that the warnings are non-distracted, with all the warnings from the lawyers, are added to this risk. That's why I feel completely lonely, and I just don't understand for my little life yet how the administrative part along with the co-fish is going to drive the case through the council in no time, when time is enough. We're in no hurry. The nation is against this in part. Why should we continue on this disastrous course?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u29	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the record. I mentioned it earlier this day, or tonight rather said, that there has not been much publicity at the council, I do not remember having seen it specifically discussed in terms of more parts, indeed in committee opinions, or in the coverage I have seen from committees. Thus, it is reported that in a memo published by the Department of Employment, the European Commission's Office of Energy, 2014, it is stated that when Norway wishes to receive annum from the Directive 72/2009, which deals with common rules on this market, the answer to the European Commission is rejected, because the directives apply to activities in the special interest of economic history and on the land base of the Member States. Then you begin to think: Wait, is it known to members of the Parliament that the directive to accept has so much value and so much weight? Is that clear to everyone? There's been reports here that there's some crazy or stupid thing to say that the base could be underneath and something like that when we're worried about a cable, we must not be able to do it. But in view of the news today and what has been written on Facebook, including ... froma state judge, I wonder. Senator: Does this not highlight the risks involved in private lawsuits?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u30	Mr. President. Yes, at first hearing, I would feel very likely that this will increase that risk. And speaking of members of Congress who have generally failed to recognize what is involved in this energy package, I will still have to go to the highest level. The minister of state is not here, to say that the other day, his visit to us disappointed me. Somehow, I felt that the minister of foreign affairs was not prepared enough by himself in this discussion. If I'm right about that, and not just being mean to the highest. The minister that I'm not going to be, lets it tell you - we've said that the matter is complicated -- that if the person who measures the Senate proposal in here doesn't completely agree with the effects of its induction, the foreign press and its prerogatives to receive, it refers to the authority of the envelopes to his servants, claiming to have answered all the questions that are wrong, claims to have rolled over all the stones that are wrong -- I'm not there to find a thorough knowledge of this matter. Not that the person here thinks he has the highest knowledge in this case, for he doesn't have it. On the other hand, the discussion that has been discussed here has, I think, deepened the knowledge of all who have established it in the way of this matter. It may prove to you how wrong it was of the greater part of the General Assembly to run this case through without a discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u31	President. There's something special about that. Congress members of the hearing should not come here to advise or speak for the matter. There have been many questions, yet I pretend to see that some of them feel that nothing new has happened. Then we just don't agree with it. For example, we need answers to how we view the development of a energy package four. Also, regarding what I mentioned earlier, the European Union believes that the rules for the economic legislation and the basis, which I would have thought, would further underscore the risk that private people will go to a lawsuit against the State and that it will strengthen their position if the government tries in any way to prevent it from laying an electrical cord. Of course, it is possible for the state and community to get involved in organizational procedures and such. But it is quite clear that, in view of the interests that are possibly at stake, it will be brought with great intensity by those who consider it practical to perform such an enormous and extensive task as a sea cable. So that's a lot of concern, and I'm asking why. A senator whether it may be a problem. Senators are not all informed, even the highest. Prime Minister, given the way she spoke today or this morning. I do not believe that if she knew how everything worked out, he would have spoken as careful as a good politician as the prime minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u32	Mr. President. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. Senator. I have every confidence and great respect for the highest. Prime Minister. She's one of the biggest politicians we have, and I'm sure she wouldn't have answered that question yesterday or any time it was, if she had been fully aware of the facts. I think it's the same with her as with any members of the council that I believe was deceived to participate in supporting this matter. I don't think people have been fully informed all the way to the end and to the point. Then I'll still find that this case is very complex in its nature. It is. Any attempt to push it out of the way and to say that it is simple and that it is of no importance conflicts with the appeals that humans have to push the case through. Then let me quote again, by permission of the President, ex-whisper. Councilman, Sighvatur Björgvinsson, who is not a Middle Class member and not an assistant to the Central Party in any way. He said, "If the third energy package doesn't mean anything to Iceland, why would the Allieds spend time enforcing it?" Why, then, is that not what humans are doing? What are people wasting time on it -- as he said - when there are plenty of big things involved? If it does not matter to the people of Iceland, what are people wasting their time in this vain situation? But this conflicts with the intense interest and determination that humans have to pressure this matter through the council at no time, unconcerned, ill - equipped, and in opposition to the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u33	President. I'm going to continue to try to draw out and to shed light on the importance of the analysis of the whole matter, i.e. that this issue cannot be considered with regard to the third energy package as an independent item, but it is a specific step, part of a large and massive process that the Icelands have to decide whether they will continue to participate in. In fact, this process is primarily about sharing in the European Union's energy policy, the energy policy we are not close to -- fortunately, I say, because if we were to be at that table, we would be like the European Union, which, of course, is not anything exciting. But what I've been wondering is some questions that I think people need to consider in this large context. I have pondered the increase in power or change, e.g. Type 72/2009 and Regulation 714/2009, in which information on the fourth energy pack will be updated. It's supposed to be updated. As a matter of fact, there is a new risk management principle, and this ACER Bureau is given increased power and additional roles. I don't understand why the senators aren't prepared to see if the overall picture changes, whether the combined effect of the third and fourth energy package is in this way that we want to stop now, because we don't already do it, in view of the fact that the fourth energy package has arrived. There must be new information for members of the council and the Senate because we have not received any introduction to what is there, although it was in some local process, as well as to what it is evidently found to be the source mentioned in the songing of a sea cable is only to home bridge. It becomes more and more evident each day. More than that, as I pointed out in answer to what was. paritaprevir Sourstein Sæmundsson, it's not only some service on land, but it's also about the control and common rules within the economic record and on the basis of land. But I've wondered if Iceland needs an exception in this fourth energy package, like tried to apply in the third energy package, and then from what. I think it's pretty important, because if it continues to develop in the areas we've tried to get an exception but not received, it's unlikely that you'll be able to obtain a reserve from them at the end of the past and it'll be more likely that the European Union will interpret it this way: 'Yes, you have created this third pack of energy in such a way that there is no reason to give you now the reserve you could not receive at that time.' So the additional question is: Is it likely that we will be able to get a replacement if this is an evolution of the types we've wanted to escape? The answer, of course, is no; it is not likely to succeed. That alone, except for all other concerns in this matter, should be thought - provoking to members of Congress whether or not things are needed to be looked into in context and to wonder what this step population is for the next steps we have the opportunity to see in the future, because reviews have been made, even for supporters of this third energy package, that the next is much more extensive and puts more responsibilities, requests and requirements for companies and changes in markets and the likes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u34	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. What I wanted to come through a little bit. A senator is the sea cable, as he mentioned here only. Last night, Prime Minister made a significant statement that she hoped that a cable would not be laid. Of course you'll agree with her, at least That if a cable were laid, it would be placed on Icelandic terms, i.e. He would then be made on our own rather than in the way in which this is suggested, that he will soon become totally under the authority of the European Union, and we would have very little to say. But what I wanted to ask you is why. A senator is the statement that there is hope that a cable will not be laid. It must be noted that no advance can be trusted made to a home bridge, so to speak, on the part of the government, that there will be no sea cables, that it will be bound in law, because there are elections regularly, elections are replaced, governments are replaced, and new governments or more items formed, etc. It should not be considered that it is almost possible to say so that we can expect a decision like this to be changed as soon as it is applied, i.e. The law that we don't have a cable here? That they will only be removed when a particular pressure is applied? Perhaps the main ingredient is: Can we be sure that the Allied people will be able to stand there without a sea cable? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u35	V.E.G. President. Of course, we can't count on that, boy. Senator. We've seen that things can change rapidly in politics and foreboding them is clearly a prime priority for the state itself, which is somehow putting a warning on itself, that's how it can be said, because if the private people want to go on this project and finance it, transfer energy, at least it's happened. Four lawyers who have considered the case, now the last of the district judge Arnar Þór Jónsson, that it is impossible to forbid it because of the four freedoms. Friðrik If Power Institute were to prevent this, it would very likely call for a lawsuit, and it would be very difficult for Iceland to resist that. " Since then, we have been pointing to the Commission's refusal of the Norwegian encore to separate sea cables for their oil pots from these rules. The answer to that question was that under those rules, not only decisions or what happened on land but also the overall economic law and land base. That is what the Executive Director said to the Norwegians: You will not be given an exception because this is also true on land base and economic law, which means that it is not possible to carry it for you when and if the Icelandic state wants to prevent this body from laying a sea cable. The rules have been determined on the basis of national legislation as well as on the economic legislation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u36	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. This clearly shows why. A senator has mentioned that this matter can have far - reaching consequences, in reality, far more extensive than we have realized when talking about the economic history and the fishing grounds, that the basis is possibly beneath us. These factors need to be answered. This is one of the issues that have been presented in the late stages of this discussion, which shows the need for discussion, and it is really very strange. Councilmen are not to participate in the media discussion. I'm impressed that more of the senators have made themselves involved in this matter. I've said it here and mentioned earlier tonight that I thought that about 20 members of the council had made no comment on this matter, nothing, not anything. Nevertheless, they will support it because they are part of the 52 members of the council that are discussed in support of this issue. It shows the seriousness of the situation that when even as much of a population as the basis could be affected, I think that the matter is now going to be affected. Senators getting involved in this matter. There will be no turning back. That's the point of all this. There will be no turning back after implementing this directive, not just canceling the EEA contracts. We haven't talked about it yet. It is proper to state clearly that the Central Party has not spoken of the agreement, although there may be a number of factors to consider, pros and cons, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u37	V.E.G. President. When the Norwegian asked for annullation from Type 72/2009, I assume that at that time they could not have seen what was left to them in the update of the article currently being offered in the fourth energy package. The answers they received then were that this type, 72/2009, was valid and would apply in Norway's economic legal history and land base. As a result, the same will apply to Iceland. And if any of the updates on this structure on these common rules and how to apply them, then perhaps there is even greater impact on this interpretation or construction, when it comes to these factors I mentioned, there is good reason to pause. I'd like to ask, and I know that some members of the council are still in this house, although it's not from all categories, whether they first realized that this leader is the way he is, he won't handle those individuals or lawyers who would want to go this way to their own business, and also that men have come to realize that the land base and economic record are subject to it. Realize that this applies not only to some small and cute rules around the Power Institute, something like that, but everything under the rules and conditions of which they apply, the highest. President? It's not just the tuna band around the General Assembly, that's the base and the economic legal history. That's why you have to be very smart.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u38	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Sveinsson Sólnson for his speech. The Senator got word of enforcing and warning. It is now that much of the discussion has been about the two aspects, terms, and/or warnings, whether to do so. The quote is quoted, e.g. The meat, the raw meat, that sort of thing. We got it, what to say, in the face, it didn't hold water, and we got on with a court order that was very expensive, and then we're now working on it in committees where the provariat minister is about countersurges because of the court. I'd like to ask the senator about the advance. It is said that the warnings, warnings, or what we say, whether in the plural or in the singular, are one - sided and therefore only to home bridges. I ask the senator, " Were there warnings in the meat business alone? Or what led to our having an adverse judgment on this matter? ' Was it something that we did wrong, or was it just ahead of time known that this judgment would be against us? Were we just that simple, or did we believe that we had the matter in our hands? Could it be premeditated that it would be like this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u39	V.E.G. President. I don't think we can do that, huh? A senator, saying that it was in advance known that it would be this way. They felt that they had a specific warning, an exception regarding the transport of meat to the country, including the U.S. For beds and disease defenses and stuff like that. Unfortunately, at least the EFTA Court did not interpret the matter like the government in Iceland. It was the very thing here to make a decision at the time to run this case all the way, to test it. Sadly, we are now stuck with a response to all of them. The similarities between meat and energy may be primarily that both are goods and in the eyes of many European Union and some non-participants in Iceland, which should be a free flow across borders, that is part of the four freedoms, and therefore the trade of goods is not to be stopped. That's exactly what we're dreaming about, or not, the ones who are standing at the alleged warnings or warnings, that can be prevented from being laid and all of these types will be fully introduced. True, they will be fully introduced, but they think that the economist is excluded, which it is not, if a person or the lawyer tries to do so. It is really only for the government, for the blessing or for the warnings.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u40	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for this answer. If you take it as a good thing that the defence is only valid for the government, but not if some members intend to go to sea cables, you can say that it is absolutely clear that we reject these packages and send them back to the EEA Committee, according to Article 102. The deal. It's so simple to me. I don't really know what to ask in the second answer. Perhaps it would be the most important thing about the Power Institute, its independence. ACER is now thought of as some sort of valve or to open the necks of a bottle in contact with nations so that there are no no no no no no nods, and it carries the risk in disintegration of those in opposition to this package to increase energy prices. But the officials of the case talk about the lack of danger, since Power Institute remains completely independent and remains. Isn't the senator concerned that it may be wrong, that the independence of the Power Institute will not be what the mercenaries of the energy package are saying?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u41	V.E.G. President. It is quite clear that the Power Institute and comparable persons must follow the rules set by the agency or what we call them, now that the name fell from my head, those who will work by the rules set by the European Union, the ACER Institute and our two-sided agency, ESA, will have had the opportunity to deal with them -- it is clear that, after them, the Power Institute will have to work. In some respects, an energy agency will gain independence or more freedom from the Icelandic government, whereas other things will replace them. It is written into the decision of the joint EEA committee a process to resolve such differences. It has to be said at the moment, or in the English language, is a little much used, i.e. how ESAs should react. In fact, no one has objected that the ACER will be able and will take the initiative to set rules and suggest that solutions arise in a conflict that ESAs need to be discussed. However, what would be interesting to review is what is developing in the ACER fourth energy package, which has been identified and is subject to the changes, e.g. in the plant of the Power Institute, it'll all come true.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u42	V.E.G. President. At times, the European Union's method of working with nations has been referred to, to get them to accept regulations and regulations, one at a time. Each one may have little effect. But after bringing in the mass of regulations, these nations will have sold themselves under governmental power that is hard to break. I prefer to compare it to the way a young child is deceived into eating oatmeal. It is often said to the child: " One spoon for my father, one spoon for my mother, one spoon for my grandmother, and one spoon for my grandfather. ' The distinction between grasses that do good for the child and the instigation of one thing is that eventually nations will eventually become caught up in throwing up of all the unnecessary things they swallow up. This is the third energy package, swallowing it may seem innocent, but the pain we as a nation will face in the future in the form of higher energy prices, less work and local refugees, can become unbearable. I'm here to quote Governor Arnar Þór Jónsson by permission of the President. The European Union's third EU energy package through the EEA Convention will have no relevance for investors wanting to put a sealine between Iceland and Europe. If investors are to be found in a more likely country or abroad, the requirement to put a seaband here may be disastrous. It could be called a disaster. The EEA Convention would have to sell renewable energy at the same price and offer in the European Economic Areas as it is the objective of a joint internal market. We might be confronted with a company operating in the country because of its fine competitiveness, of course because of rising electricity prices. Ending the obligation of companies which produce e.g. raw products such as aluminium, are production in the country far from the market if the electricity is sold at the same price as in the continent of Europe? What's going to happen to all the data sets? I guess they'd move away as soon as they came to the country. Such activities are easily mobile, and naturally they want to be as close to the manufacturer of the equipment they use. It's in the eye. The question remains, What kind of career do we want here? We'd be the raw materials manufacturer, since the energy is the raw materials, not the full processors. At the time, we stressed that instead of being exported, a fish would be finished here. Of course, that's what we're supposed to do in the energy as well. We should always use it here for production. It will eventually make most of it. It has the increase of value in production. We create a variety of jobs for academics and unskilled jobs. The advantages of society will be greatest in that way. This should be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u43	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for his speech. First, I'd like to say that even though I had agreed with an illustration. A senator of the methodology used by the European Union to achieve its aims, I now feel as bad as the oatmeal to compare him to this relationship, because he is good and good and goes well to the stomach while the rest is not as good at least, I'm not going to say more. We're talking about a pack of three energy. On Wednesday last week, I noticed and noticed that the European Union published on its website that a four - pack energy package is ready. That's what it's all about. Among other things, it has been found that it contains an update on the kind of actions we are to accept now. In other words, adjustments have been made, and they are available, on what we are to accept now. Wouldn't it be a little clever, and is it not really just a matter of staying and trying to see what is coming, seeing only the future, because that book is open? I'd like to know if it's a good idea. A senator may agree with me on this. It's a little like --what. A senator was now a carpenter on a boat before entering the council, if he could know what the state of the sea would be or where the best fishing would be 2021, if it was not a good thing to make plans, and his profile would move for growth accordingly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u44	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for the questions. I agree with him fully with the oatmeal, but I also noted that the difference between the porridge that makes the baby good is different from swallowing insurrections, even though it is one or only induction at a time. I agree that the oatmeal is healthy. I'm sure he's better than that induction in the long run, and I ate a lot of oatmeal as a child and I'm big and big. [[Take it up, you can see it.]] A drink, in fact, describes it as well. As we have said many times and agree, it is best to stop and look to the future, to see if it is not better to go a little slower on this one, as it has been seen. I quoted an interview at the highest level. Industrial Minister last fall. V.E.G. Minister Þórdís Reykfjörð, The Smokedrify of Gylfadóttir, in an interview, said that there was no hurry, although this third pack of energy would be postponed until the fall. To this day, I believe that she agrees with herself in it. Speaking of my seawork experience and the fact that I've been in a fishing business, the future vision is often taking the weather forecast, and you can't beat it if you're predicting some cursed trick, that's for sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u45	V.E.G. President. As told by the Industrial Association, even by permission of Presidents: On the basis of reasons, SI noted that the fourth energy pack, i.e., is already being covered at the EU level by the fourth energy pack. The so - called ◯ves package, where there's a much wider rule than the first energy trays. This is probably the firm of industry because they've had a presentation on a pack of four energy. We generals have not yet received that presentation. We know it's ready. We know it's a direct continuation of previous energy bags. We know that certain articles will be updated, will change, and will actually be added to new articles. We also know that the role of the ACER agency will change, so you are a little surprised that the members of the board and the followers of this case do not want to pause and at least compare the changes that will occur between these packages. What changes? It is not always that we are in this situation, a respectable president, having the future in front of us, namely. can see her. Of course, it's always in front of us because we're not there, but we can see what's in it in this case. It's not a crystal ball, we're not reading a cup or a card. We've agreed on what we're going to have to record in the months or years, depending on how fast it's going to go. And why not pause and compare it, viewing the overall changes and changes there?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u46	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the question. That's a very good question. As the senator came in, it's not a crystal ball that's fixed, and you've heard it. A review from the Industrial Association shows that the fourth energy package is on the board in processing and that some skeleton is involved in how the knots are completed. It would be logical to sit back and look at it much better before we accept a pack of three, since this is no small issue. This is big. All steps in the matter need to be taken with great care by our power of reason. I think this point is that we sit back, read out and learn what the fourth energy package is about, is very logical above all the other reasons we've talked about here. It's not a question, and putting the case off all the way to the fall and, like, putting it in the railing of taking advantage of the possibility of bringing it back to the joint EEA committee and taking it back up again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u47	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I am pleased with his illustration of the importance of using our energy here in the country. He likened it to the importance of filling fish. You're right about what you're doing. Senator. Making the fish at home is far more valuable. What a pleasant illustration to simplify and understand! It is important to present the case in a way that the public understands the importance of it, what is being done here, because, of course, there are inductions, such as in this case, energy package three, Directive No. 3 from the European Union, as opposed to so simple. There is a great deal of rule behind this issue, and the public message needs to be prepared in a simple way so that he can shape his attitude on this matter because it is the direct democracy that the public will receive something about how to make decisions that concern the public, permanently and into the future, which are rapidly changing in these substances when it comes to electricity and environment and the fight against climate change. But I wanted to ask you what. A member of Parliament: Is it not quite expected that if this is the case with the future transfer of electricity through a cable, industrialised in the country will compete with the electricity to the mainland, that it will be under attack? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u48	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson for this answer. Of the metaphors I used in fish farming and electricity, it is, of course, often referred to as the need for full - time fishing to increase the worth of transporting the fish, since it is, of course, much more valuable. There have been many things that have been done in this discussion. I have been in fishing for a long time and have had to deal with all kinds of situations in this regard. Among these have I found it in the past few years, especially now in dealing with loan institutions, that because my work does not have fish production, it does not have as much access to loan funds as it is in catching the fish, but in working it out and thus moving it out. I just get that answer. I could borrow a loan, but I wouldn't get as good a interest as those who do fish. Then I'm talking about eating dinner and stuff like that. However, in connection with the senator's question of electrical prices, he mentioned industrial activity, it is monotonous that there is not a large border in industrial and technical education, and such companies could easily move out of the country if electrical prices would rise. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u49	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. He came in there on a very interesting show that's got way too little attention here. He noted that it is easier to obtain loans in the fish industry if the fish work at home, if I understood why. A senator is correct. This is because a more valuable product is being exported to a more valuable market. It can be applied to the power companies because the review of HS Energy to this synonym suggests, for example, that it can be applied to the electricity companies. that they consider this matter to be positive, including Because it can help companies like HS Ennis to look for loans on larger and more expensive projects. If I get that correct, this review is talking about looking for loans abroad. That's why I think it's about that it's about to be producing a more valuable product, which in this case is pure electricity. She's moved through a cable. That's why I think companies such as the energy companies here are very positive about this project because they envision the possibility of being able to move energy out in the future. Then we risk industrial companies at home, making electricity more expensive to home because it can be sold much higher in foreign lands.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u50	V.E.G. President. Yes, it is consistent with the value of the raw materials, of course, increasing with the export production in this country. And as noted earlier, government policy has usually been to place it in the context of fish fishing and fishing that most of the export of fish is won fish. In this regard, consider the concern that fish are taken out of the water directly from the ship's gate in a container. It's, for example. one of the friends in this discussion. It must be the same with the electricity, that we contribute to the production of all the electricity we produce, sold for full-exploitation in this country. So, as mentioned earlier in the senator's question of trade and technology and the entire electricity use industry, home would also benefit if we could prepare our knots so that we would be completely self-sustained in these matters. As a result, we need to support ourselves in this matter. No one does that for us, no other nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u51	Mr. President. I had announced that in this speech, I was going to make up for the fact that I had been discouraged when I reviewed the prime history of Iceland recently to review the share of the geochemists in electricity production in the country. I have received comments on this and have hoped to make it right in one speech. In Iceland, the share of eco-efficiency in electricity production has increased rapidly in the last few years. In 1969, the first geothermal activation in use was the Bear covers. There was little activation with an up-reaching force of more than 3 MW. The production of this activation has been very variable, and some of the years have not been production at all. Over the past few years, this has been a small product, and it was evident last year, below 1 GWst. " 0.2 GWst. 2018, but went up and over 20 GWst. Between 1973 and 1996,1998. The next in history was the Krats, the operation set up in 1978, with a power installed at 12.5 MW, increasing to 60 MW 1997. The electricity production of enteric activation has been increasing from low intensity at baseline, after 1982, 100 GWst. , up to 200 in 1996 and over 500 at the beginning of this century, and have been in almost 500 GWst. Annually in recent years. We have a sixth largest geothermal bioactivation in the country. The use of activation in 1977 has increased several times in 1980 to 8MW, 1989 to 11 MW, 1999 to 46 MW, and finally to 76 MW in 2007. Electric development has increased at that rate and was in 2018 587 GWst. and has been somewhat stable in recent years. Black angel is the fifth largest geothermal activation. Nesjaval activation was initiated in 1998, with an up-reaching force of 60 MW and 120 MW in 2005. Electric development was rapid, with over 1,000 GWst over a few years. but last year was 970 GWst. Nesjafield is the second largest geothermal inactivation by Hellishe. Smoke reactivation occurs there in the meantime, in 2006, in 100 MW. Electric development has increased rapidly there, from 500 GWst. the past few years and last year, 810 GWst. Smokenes activation is the third largest geothermal activation in the country. The largest is Hellishe activation, performed in 2006, with a power installed up to 90 MW. It has been enlarged several times, over 100, over 200, and today, 303 MW. Just as Hellish's electricity industry has grown large steps, the year 2018 was 2,500 GWst. It's one of the biggest geothermal effects in the country. The fourth largest activation, taken into use of 2017, 45 MW, in 2018 90 MW, was the electronic efficiency of Theist sectors in 2018 GWst. There are a few small inducers, so I finish my review of these activations. It is Húsavík, small activation, 2 MW, since 2000. It was a short - lived activation, in the year 2000◯2007, and returned about and above 10 GWst. during her ministry. Fleas have little activation of 0.6 MWs in force, but there was very little development during the past year. [[The president calls.]] I was going to review more and will do so in my next talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u52	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for his talk and this fine overview of the geothermals and how they have been developed. The geologic and fallen waters are priceless goods enjoyed by Icelanders. These are valuables in many ways. We can produce electricity from it. We warm up our houses. It's professional, etc. As a result, no one has to be surprised that the government of other countries, even individuals and businesses, will turn an eye to Iceland when it comes to making use of or getting to that green energy. Hv. A senator has also discussed in his talks the warning that was meant to be all of this. It has now been found that at least Four lawyers, if not more, have commented on the fact that this agent is really of little value when it comes to a private person wanting to be exported to electricity and production. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator whether he has seen anywhere that there is some kind of energy that might fall outside or inside. I've understood this so that it's a general priority, and it's really just a value to the government in Iceland, or to the General, but it's the will of a private citizen to produce energy, e.g. From the earth's heat, or if a company wants to take a cable with other private agents, it is clear according to these four lawyers that the Power Institute or the Icelandic State cannot prevent it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u53	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator for the first question. I was talking about geothermals. I don't know why. A senator is asking, but he asked about the legal warning, or warning, as he put it. There are two warnings that have been discussed in connection with this matter, and they must not be confused. It's the national-oriented premise that Iceland makes when the case comes up for the joint EEA committee. People from the Member States will see if there is a need for legal adjustments in the country. If they think they need such a thing, they flaunt it, as they say, and give a national warning to the agreement, which really means that the General must discuss the matter and correct this national warning. This includes commitment and commitment to the national legislation, to change laws, to set laws in this area, not to conflict with the rules of the introductions, i.e. The rules of the European Union. The legal premium is a very different thing. The legal premise, which has been investigated and has been looking for doors and dances, is another reason, because it is born in the administration home, if research is correct, and is some kind of promise that the directive will be implemented by legal notice, i.e. that Iceland will not be committed even if national warning will be lifted, no matter how counter-clockwise the argument now is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u54	V.E.G. President. Thanks for the answer. Hv. In his speech on the geologists, a senator correctly discussed the answers, and perhaps the answer should have been more focused on the content of the talk. So you are tempted to ask why. A senator whether he knows or is able to answer how much people are expected to be left of an active geothermal in Iceland and whether he or she is not tempted to live in foreign countries, because of the private person's involvement, to attack such activatures to export energy. The soils and them are activated as easily as possible. A senator listed are like other energy sources, or energy producers, under the same rule. Consequently, if these changes occur, the Energy Agency will deal with the prices or management of this energy sector in any form of ESA and ACER. But that may be an additional point in the light of the discourse. A senator moved. I wondered, " Does the Senator have a view of it, as well as what I asked him earlier about possible further geological contractors and how much can be activated? ' The senator knows about this, e.g. When the cost comes at every minute, compared to the cost of wind's energy? Does the senator know whether the cost is comparable? Then I'm thinking about what's tempting for a private person to go into. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u55	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his second question, who bowed to the geothermal activations that I discussed in my speech and will continue to discuss because I hadn't quite finished my discussion. The rest of that talk is just as interesting. In recent years, electricity production from geothermal activation has grown very fast. Hv. A senator asks if there are plans for how much can be applied in this field, how much a person can be activated by a sauna beyond what we have already done. The latest in this field over the last few years is a special study material, i.e. What is called deep - density, which can give us a powerful force that can be activated. If time goes by, I'll look into it a little bit better and I'll be there in a talk later if there's any chance, i.e. Based on plans, expectations, and studies performed in deep water. It's Iceland's funeral. I haven't figured out what a man's plan is that he can be activated with a temper beyond what he's already done. Less than a third of the updrafted force in Iceland is in the form of a geothermal. But we have been made much more than that because we have switched from oil to the earth's heat to house warming for amazing periods of time. Now it's a self - esteem thing, but it wasn't about 60 years ago, so most of the land's housing was lit with oil.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u56	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's discourse and this very interesting historical summary of the national geological workers and their importance in our energy supply and their growth in recent years. It was especially surprising that they have grown to electricity production. It is essential to provide information, as there is evidence that certain companies are preparing to sell their energy out of the country, this clean energy, and this may have consequences for the companies at home who buy electricity from those companies, the consequences of which would result in the increase in electricity prices. That pure energy, which is so important to us, would be moved out of the country. Hv. A senator only introduced deep - seated laws that I find very interesting work to be done. However, there are some articles on the Internet that describe the deep sites that should be useful, such as. United Kingdom. The same well being said is that the policy is to sell energy out of the country. But now, for example. However, the environmental impact of these deep sites is quite high. I'd like to check that out by then. A member of the body of elders may have made a special examination of this subject. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u57	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson for his question. But I'm gonna have to grieve. A senator that I have not investigated the impact of the deep - seated waters from the surrounding perspective. But I made it clear in my speech that this would be a worthwhile research project to investigate it and bring it in on this discussion and for full discussion. If it turns out that there is a rich source of energy, it is relevant to this discussion, i.e. research on deep-line models and what people think can achieve a high-energy level by allowing them to investigate the potential environmental impacts and potential harmful effects in areas where the risk of land fire is high, such as on Smokenes. It's a special research material. There is also more to the depths, the rocks, and the falling waters. The wind power is also something that is largely unbidden here on the land, which has been discussed often. But there is more. Marine energy is also a environmental source of energy and in many parts of the country, it is no doubt possible to activate marine tide energy, such as. in Britain or in other coastal areas that easily allow the engine to be activated, such as on shores in many parts of the country. But as well as perhaps even more environmentally, the energy I've mentioned is wave energy, i.e. to activate the power of the wave.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u58	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I think it's very important to discuss this aspect of the matter, i.e. The lack of detailed discussion on the potential environmental impact of this Parliament-student proposal for the implementation of the third EU energy directive. Like what? A senator mentioned in the water research into deep water, and it is apparent that this is a factor in increasing the production of these companies. If you look at the articles I saw in foreign media that have projects running around here, deep - density projects that have been given strength abroad to explore the potential for drilling and that are spoken of as much as 4.7 miles, this can have tremendous effects, such as ... onSmoneynes. How does it affect current energy production? Can she be in danger? It's all the material you need to investigate. But I think it is, Mr. President, that we need a environmental minister in this discussion because the environmental element has not been discussed in this context. If this proposal is approved it is quite clear that it is preparation for a much larger step that must be sold from the EU to Europe and that will increase the implementation of countries, possible deep density, etc. This is an environmental element that we need to discuss in this context much more closely, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u59	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for later answers. He kept talking about the deeps and he mentioned those depths up to a depth of 4.7 miles. But then I think that once people are down to the bottom of the earth, they will probably open up more possibilities, not only on the Smokenes, but on the basis of the basic heat, as they are in Iceland, that in many countries, these studies will probably open up opportunities abroad, and even in Europe, I have not examined just how deep down on heat that may be in Europe, where the greatest potential exists, but these studies will, of course, of course, be able to find a source of energy, which will be easier with increased technology to seek and harness for the benefit of modern societies, and then able to rid ourselves of the waste energy that we are taking in all too much of it, like nuclear and burning coal. I'm happy if research into the deep sites has any results. But I'm not saying this is something we're supposed to run to here on land. It seems to me that the potential for energy is almost endless, as mentioned earlier, with the wind and the earthvarman, just as it happens, and the tide energy, etc. I don't think we have any need to take any chances in this relationship, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u60	Mr. President. A report recently published, that I think yesterday, says that national activation has reached an electrical agreement with the Iceland company Elkem, which is involved in the development of a suspect. The report says that the company's electrical price grew considerably. I found out that there were some downs and downs. Therefore, members of Congress have rejoiced in their Facebook pages and have said that this is exactly what should come up, that these companies need to have electrical agreements raised, and energy packages are part of the reality of what should be realized. I'll take it very seriously, Mr. President. I believe this is a process of evolution that can have serious consequences. I also noticed that General Vilhjálmur Birgisson has been concerned about the significant increase in electricity contracts to the company of Elkem, Iceland. He writes a record of it on his Facebook page, and he worries about it. I'm just gonna come in after that, with President's permission. But it's that way with the company Elkem in Iceland, which gives a lot of people a job and is a very important company, that its officials have been trying for a long time to achieve contracts with the Land activation of electricity prices but completely in vain. The differences were referred to because Elkem failed to negotiate with Land induction for the electric price. It has to be said that, as it is, not everything is obtained by trying to squeeze a company like this to pay the highest possible price for electricity. Elkem has to fight in its existence at a time when significant increases can result in the loss of an enterprise as it eventually did. Then you ask yourself, " What was the benefit of making the highest demand for an increase in electricity prices? ' The labor leader Vilhjálmur Birgisson asserts that if advertised electrical prices that Landry wanted for electricity, in the case of Elkem of Gruntelga, the company would have been closed and hundreds of employees would have lost their livelihood. However, despite the failure of land activation to achieve its highest demand for electronic prices, this increase - it claims the union officer - still threatens Elkem's executives with tremendous security. This is a matter we must face. You wonder, " Is the government aware of this? ' So this is where the claim has been made. Congress that the input of this energy package is so important that we finally start to get the prices for the electrical energy we're already going to get to the major industry. However, this is an example of what can happen if we get ahead of ourselves in that regard. I can see that, Mr. President, my time has passed. I'm going to get this into the next talk, and I'm going to request that you put it back on the rosary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u61	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I noticed these same news reports and the discussion. A senator went over the price of electrical activation. I just want to know if what's wrong. A senator can review it with me, or is it not a recall, that some time ago the company revised its prices and adopted some new criteria that would take into account energy prices in Europe, if I recall correctly. Now people wonder if it's wise to do so, since energy is expected to be more expensive than in this country and moved a longer way, even moved in from other countries, etc., and if it's not stopped, if it's the objective of the company, just being at the same spot as any other country, whether it's Europe or telling Canada or something, that it's giving out a competitive advantage or a chance that Iceland should have at least. It also makes you wonder without necessarily having some conspirators. Now we know that within the country's activation, there has been a great interest in inspecting a sea cable, exporting energy, but there is something special that at the same time as the company is considering it seems to change its policy in the direction of transporting electricity and selling it at prices comparable to Europe, but certainly with green environmentally friendly energy. Is this so far away from the reality I'm thinking about, huh? Senator? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u62	Mr. President. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator came to the very heart of the matter. It appears that the plans for the future for these companies, such as Land induction, are selling this clean energy to the highest bidder. It will be in the European Economic Area. That's for sure. Therefore, I am not surprised to learn that this company, which is owned by the nationals, has been supplied with the introduction of a pack of three energy in its review. But what may be the main thing in my mind in this regard is that people have to realize what the consequences may be. Is it just government policy to get the big business, these companies that do a lot of work, from abroad? That's what you're wondering because there are many costs involved in being far from markets, etc. It's just possible, like what's happened. A senator mentioned, it might be more beneficial for these enterprises at the moment, when the electrical prices have been increased to these companies, that they are moving their activities closer to the market, e.g. correspondent in Europe These are all the viewpoints we have to discuss and review because there's a lot at stake. I think it's most questionable for members of the council, some of whom have now welcomed a energy contract with Elkem that the industry is finally paying the price that she will pay when the result may be two, three years from now that the company is not going to be working properly. [[The president calls.]] This is something to consider. [[The president calls.]] All these interests are important in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u63	V.E.G. President. Thanks for the answer. Now, we have this fact in front of us that the federal company of Landing has been raising electricity prices considerably to major users in at least, especially the big industry. Instinctively, that's what you're tossing about, like a whale. A senator, that there is some kind of policy there to try to reduce sales to such companies, whether for export or to try to attract other companies. You wonder, though, if the price is high enough to pay, e.g. for data studios looking for cold and cheaper energy, e.g. To Canada or anything else, Iceland would be out of control. But there is something else that really matters in all of this, i.e. what the trends of these energy panels all become when it comes to management with energy. And if the changes in energy markets are made in Europe, including to some extent in these energy panels, including monitoring roles, power and interventions to which agencies such as ACER and its subsidiaries should have. It makes you wonder if there is a possibility that energy prices - whether individuals, companies, or even big users - will come to an increase in the future. If I recall correctly, land induction was also making contracts for less time than has been done. Then, when it comes to renovating contracts, it will have to increase even more, including the external costs which will inevitably increase.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u64	Mr. President. It is clear that all these costs, e.g. management costs, in the end, will always land on consumers. We only need to look at what is stated in the review of HS Energy in its interpretation of the synonym, where the company claims that an increase in monitoring costs will go into the prices and will go to the consumers. So right after this induction, we'll see an increase to consumers. We do not know the magnitude of an increase, but we do have an increase. This social power, this European energy institution, which is called ACER, becomes a natural high-level booth and is involved in its own cost of operation, which, of course, will eventually land on consumers as always in these areas. You have to say, Mr. President, that these factors can not be viewed properly, which can cause electricity to rise to domestics and businesses in the country. We saw it just about splitting the energy companies up here in Iceland, creating a energy package one and two, and all the administrative costs were raised. If a consumer wants to change energy sales today, it is said that there is so much consumer protection. The benefits are very low. This has been demonstrated. The consumer organization has already established this. Only by changing energy sales will there be a bill that can weigh up into this savings, the little savings that comes from the energy exchange. [[The president calls.]] They say this may be about 1,000 bucks. each year, which is saved by changing energy sales, as well as by the price of 500 bucks.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u65	Mr. President. There's a reason to thank you. A candidate for a very extensive talk in just five minutes. It raises questions. You don't know where to start. Hv. A senator has been talking about the cost of energy development, especially in his homes. To be honest, I had to be halfhearted. A senator would have ousted himself out of a hall in the first place. paritaprevir So Brísdótti Haraldsdóttir made one more trip, not in a chair, but at the side of a speaker, to the price of energy, at least in case of a second. A senator would have dropped. But that may well illustrate the point of the discussion and illustrate the key theme of a sermon. A senator who went out to compare real worlds with the language of supporters of this energy package. Hv. A senator not only dealt with electrical power prices to homes but also with companies and mentioned the big business. Sadly, though, the industry, which must be said, has met a great deal of prejudice. from the board, not from the top. Mr President, I would like to make it clear, but from certain angles within the board, even so far away from the highest level. President, but not from himself. That is shocking, for the big industry has been extremely important for whole settlements, for the whole part of the country as a foundation for innovation. Not to be overlooked is the fact that such basic work is at the same time the foundation of innovation. But what I wanted to ask you is why. A senator in his opinion is that men are moving more and more in order to underestimate the contribution of industry and industry at the same time as the government proclaims national funds in which they are going to collect their income from selling electricity for a major industry? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u66	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I share this concern with him about how politicians, many of them, look with him at the big corner. I remind you, the industry has made a big difference to us in the collapse of rebuilding our economic and economic life, so it's important to us. It is, therefore, surprising that in particular, members of the council here rejoice that there is a great increase in the price of electricity for a major industry. Of course, the industry is supposed to pay fair electrical prices, but we must not defend ourselves from the market, as is often said. I don't think people could be aware of the consequences if a company such as Elkem on Grundartan could no longer be able to pay the electrical price set up and eventually shut down its activities. This is a concern that needs to be examined in the light of this council resolution because, as it has often been said, this proposal provides the basis for us to be in this common market. There is so many evidence to suggest that an energy company in Iceland is preparing to sell energy through cables. Then these companies can be in danger and the many jobs they provide. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u67	Mr. President. As we have seen, the current president of the European Commission seems to be very much in favor of the third energy package. We have our theories on this, and we have actually reasoned that it is related to the prefect's particular seaband mental attitude and, for some time, to the company. However, during the period of land induction, against the European Union's electricity directives, to form in 2002, there was a time when one of the electricity directives was introduced. It is very interesting to see here in a report on the plans that cites the late Einar Oddur Kristjánsson, which was now less than a repetitive member of the Independence Party, at which point he was the vice president of the Parliament's budget. The story says, with permission from the President: ▪ The Earls of Oddur Kristjánsson, the vice president of the Parliament's budget committee, points out that there were comments on the bill, including the U.S. comments have been made from Landic activation and the State's Electric Force. ▪ The natural reason for doubt is that for active competition, people can enter Iceland's rural areas; they explain it. He says that humans also saw to it that the bill expects a very complex surveillance system, one of which is afraid of being expensive. ▪ One person has doubts about how he or she will be treated at the equivalent of the amount of electricity submitted to... Mr. President. Is this not just another example of being able to learn so easily from experience? More and less of all the warnings that were given on the other electricity directive proved to be valid, became reality. This is a clear warning of this induction, especially because the company is afraid that it will be difficult to maintain an active competition in the rural areas. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u68	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for bringing this up because it is very important to keep the matter in place. A senator, if I heard correctly, runs there on the review of Landing, with an energy package one and two, when they are being introduced, is negative. And you're absolutely right. A senator that it has worked out, and he did it almost as soon as it became a reality, then the country's settlement ended. Electricity was greatly increased. The settlement has had to bleed for it. Various special agreements were banned, including special subsidies for house - to - house heating in certain areas. So it's all been going along. That's why you ask yourself: " Why on earth are these big companies in favor of bringing in this third energy package? There must be a reason why they can see the opportunity to sell their energy out of the country and thus not worry about the interests of their homes and their companies in the country, which are naturally a major concern. Of course, companies such as Land induction should be concerned about the interests of the people of the country in this regard. It is an enterprise owned by the people, and it should be primarily considered for the interests of the households, such as the U.S.A. One nice man, Kári Stefánsson, has written an article on, that electricity should be sold to the homes at cost prices, that is, the quality of life that Iceland should have.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u69	V.E.G. President. In this discussion, it has been observed that the government and the Senate, along with cohesors, has ignored the warnings of experienced people. I decided this time to refer to the review of probably the man with the greatest experience and knowledge of the deal we're talking about and that's part of, i.e. Jón Baldvin, son of Hannibalsson. In itself, he brings this matter to light. He limits himself to four questions, as follows, by permission of a president: Is it absolutely necessary to make a decision by the European Commission on the basis of national legislation, although everyone agrees that these laws do not apply and do not have a realistic relevance for the country's entire country? The answer is no. (2) Since all and including the representatives of the case agree that the relationship of the Icelandic electric market with the European... would have a considerable effect here on land ◯ - see a quote from the report - ◯ber Lawgiver, in my opinion, obligation to carefully determine what this effect will already be, but do not allow it to wait later, despite the fact that the power - law - has already taken effect. This, in my opinion, is the bottom line. - Then comes the next question, with the permission of the president: When signed in 1992, was the European Union's common energy market part of the EEA Convention? The answer is no. Completes in a report about other things (see page 31.) 4) is simply wrong. The fourth question is: Will rejection of the legal action of a pack of three energy... upset the EEA deal? The answer to that question is no. However, it has to be considered a significant chance that premature legalization of a pack of three energy, unseen and unfavourable consequences, including those of the European Union, will undermine trust and promote national opposition against the EEA Treaty, as found in Norway's experience. When, for that reason, it is inconceivable to map the proposed legislation today. Jón Baldvin says when he starts to explain, with president's permission: ▪ The legislators are obliged to identify this overt range of national interest and interests for consumers prior to this uncertainty. M.a. because there is a overwhelming chance that the meant warnings will prove to be of little value because of this varied effect to show no value to them. ... The allocation of power to multinational institutions is always justified because it serves national interests better than the same. This national analysis is absolutely lacking. She needs to lie down before you go any further. It is not enough to refer to warnings that are questionable in times of trial. A little later, with the permission of a president, he says: The rules set out in the EU's internal market turn to the basic principles of the four freedoms of equal competition in competitive markets. The current market share is not consistent with that rules. ... Norway's experience confirms this.◯ Then, with the permission of the president, it says: ▪ The specified Precautionary Ministers may prove to be of little value in times of trial. Therefore, it may be confirmed that the declaration of the current EU Energy Commissioner for Ministers will prove to be based on past experiences without any evidence. Conventional Norwegian legislation on activation rights has already been condemned to be incompatible with principles relating to internal competition. Are we willing to take this risk? Then Jón Baldvin, with permission from the president, makes a clear statement: ▪ Those who claim that proposed legislation is primarily about consumer protection need to read more carefully. Finally, he says: Therefore, it is not possible to compromise with a common market now with little or no warnings and with no knowledge of anything as far as the result is concerned. Because I have so little time, I'm just gonna leave here with President Jón Baldvin's final statement: If the powerful agreement between the European Union and the European Union ceases to respect this principle of the EEA Convention and requires that the EFTA readily agree to what is right, regardless of their national interests, support for the EEA deal is infringement. Thus, the EEA contract, with all the benefits it has guaranteed Iceland during the past 25 years, can be very upset. They bear the sole responsibility of those who want to impose the third energy package on the nation - with unforeseeable consequences and in violation of national intention. [[The president calls.]] I couldn't agree more, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u70	V.E.G. President. Thank you. And for reviewing the opinion of the former minister and general and the godfather of this contract, the EEA Convention, which I would like to call, Jón Baldvin son of Hannibalsson. It is quite remarkable how that person and indeed others who have been involved in the Senate work and are of the older generation in all of this see the dangers of this energy package under discussion. One factor that has been criticized is that of reason. A senator read in his opinion that the process of handling these administrative matters is being delayed. As soon as we're talking about this third pack of energy, we'll discuss whether to delay these control-based assessments, we'll be at the surface and any light that wants to be seen, the fourth energy package. Is it not reason to wonder, " Is it also a matter of government opinion? ' Or is the idea perhaps postponing the next few years and waiting for the fourth energy package to make all gray hairs over power sales and possible governmental violations? Is it possible that people will just postpone it and take it all at once? It's completely crazy, because, anyway, the rules are being introduced, they're enforcing the goals and policy available. So I ask why. A senator whether it is true in view of that, and actually because it has recently been confirmed and established - it was during the last week, on Wednesday, that the fourth energy package in the European Union - to give delegates a chance, although only until the autumn to go through this whole thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u71	V.E.G. President. Yes, I think that would be advice. I think it would also be advice, Mr. President, that the government department would properly present this case, although only for members of the council. It is obvious that they have not introduced this to their own members, and I am convinced that if a seated president thinks back, he agrees with me that such a presentation has not been beneficial. I'm going to say one more thing, Mr. President. If a greater part of the State Department had been privileged to read just this review for its benefit, it would not have recommended that this case be settled as it is going to do now. If we put together the comments of Eyjólfur the Year's Ármannsson and others, it is even more urgent and even more obvious that the greater part of the State Department was not to recommend such an outcome. I hope that the president has made quite a lot of money sitting here and listening to the discussions that have taken place recently because it's obvious that humans are, I'm talking about the greater part of the council and the follow-up fish, taking such risks with the Icelandic beach that I don't know if this is possible to call an indiscretion -- now the legal knowledge of the president may come to my aid - a serious inadequacy, or whether men have just so determined to continue to procrastinate in spite of all the warnings that men have received on this matter. [[The president calls.]] I think people should first introduce this matter, but of course I agree. A member of the council that these issues need to be studied together and the effects of both of them combined.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u72	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. To me, it is very special that the administrative point, the followers of the matter, should not put more emphasis on speaking to it. Hv. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's children pointed out - I wonder if there are about 20 senators who have not expressed themselves about this matter in a talk chair? You wonder why. Since the transfer of a three - pack of energy into the council, the fourth energy package has also been shown to be changing and uplifting the items we now deal with. Still, when both packs are checked together, there seems to be no interest in the members of the board in evaluating whether this will affect the national sovereignty. What is behind it? I must admit, Mr. President, either I've forgotten or it's just never been shown why it's so important to accept this pack of three? Why does the board want to accept it? It's been shown that it's not consumer protection, it's not to reduce electricity prices. Why? Is it just to check the box that we fill our duties as members of the EEA team? If so, we do not need governmental warnings. We don't have to have a meeting with the EEA team if we're just going to accept what comes from there. I'm worried about that, proper President, that if this is the attitude, we're not just on the straight track of the European Union's energy policy, we're on the highway. We are rapidly enforcing a process designed and designed for something completely different from that of Iceland. This is to take place quickly and rapidly in the administration of this more important part of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u73	V.E.G. President. Iceland and I are shocked by the travellers who set off on neglected vehicles to the Gentiles and fail to take their leave, so to speak, go out on the first corner, or if they are lucky, they get off to the highlands and get stuck in it. We say, "These are more of the assholes, the tourists who've pulled out of it in spite of all the warning signs they saw, drive past the closed sign, etc. " As far as I can see, the government sector is clearly working on the issues we now speak about. Now there's two o'clock. The members of the Independence Party in the audience, and I must be surprised to ask: Were the comments we have discussed here? Do they know of the comments of an Year's Ármannsson Eyjólfur? Do they know what caution Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson's concern about this deal? We need to know, actually because if all of these comments have been introduced to the House of Independence, all the warnings presented to the House of Independence, and he says: "Let's do this, let's drive it through, take it through the state, through the council, let's get it in the council, get it through as short as a season, and take it up in Icelandic law - if the party of Independence has got all the information that's been presented here under review, I have to admit that the party of Independence, which I thought would be conservative, careful, and see its preconceals, has taken into this trial.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u74	A very impressive president. Hv. One member said: "The majority of the foreign committee were not to handle the matter in a way that most of the activity was not to be taken care of. I believe it is right to say that this case is mandatory to me. I was the lesser part, one, but the greater part was the rest. What, though, is meant by "a certain one "? What does it mean to do something? Could it not mean either that one should do something because it is right or that one should do something because he is ordered to do it? I fear that a greater part of the State Department was expected to handle the matter in this way in another understanding, even though he was not supposed to have done so in the others, as a sudden cutting of the discussion of the committee and taking the introduction of more guests, including Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, who a man would have thought would have a considerable explanation for the matter in the light of his political history and the introduction to the development of the EEA Convention for Iceland. So I ask why. Senator: What makes him think that more part of the State Department handled this case in the way that happened and that we are here in the middle of the night discussing this matter without any response coming days from the people who tell us we should introduce this third energy package? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u75	V.E.G. President. It was an interesting approach, and I can say that it looks like someone was supposed to do it under the order of someone. But that is not a description of the independent class that you know, which is in its nature cautious, a measure of conservativeness, though forward thinking, which is not the right of others and when making decisions after careful observation. But this is not the place to say hi, so you have to ask because there is a why. paritaprevir In the siderooms of this discussion, Ásbjörn's beloved Sigurbjörnsdóttir Daughter has been shocked every once in a while. She is the chairman of the State Department, but she has not been able to participate in discussions, and she has published publicly that all questions have been answered on this subject. Now I must say, Mr. President, I would have liked to hear an answer. A member of Congress on whether the Party of Independence was aware of all the warnings found in the reviews of an Eyjólfur Apostle Ármannsson of a lawyer and other comments before the council decided that this matter should be presented in the form it is now. Maybe the highest. The president informed us if that is the case, because if it is the case, the Independence Party did not really make that decision after studying this matter, this application, and others if so, because if it is true, the Independence Party is not the same party as he was, at any rate, when I was at my best. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u76	The President doesn't remember that. A senator, that the Independence Party made several decisions on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u77	Mr. President. That's the highest point. The president was the best comment that some of the presidents of the council have made in the past, at least. in this discussion, and in our hopes, we anxious senators to form a mental picture. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson, because I had thought I was coming up here to report. A senator that unfortunately I would have to disappoint him, that I feared that the good old Independence Party, such as the dog, would be the result. A senator described him, perhaps forever. I read an article after I had a problem. The head of the State Department in the Morning Press, which claimed that things that had been considered good in the old category were no longer good. Otherwise, the contribution had been made. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee for the discussion was largely assigned to attend a part on the national television program and the trea, including the U.S. in a talk given at any time. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson. I don't know if it's the highest. A president can tell me if this is perhaps a modern politician. Then may I rather ask for some old-fashioned independents, at least Officials who are willing to look into the facts, examine the facts, and look to the best - informed, but then make their own decision, make a decision, and bear responsibility, rather than simply saying that they are simply applying the professional opinion of someone else without it, as in this case, to examine all the professional values. I came up here to cause you what? A senator is disappointed, but now I'm asking. Senator: Has not hope been developed?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u78	V.E.G. President. It's not my intention to get President into trouble because I know he's not here to participate in a debate in the Senate hall while he's sitting on his throne. However, I encourage him to do so when he steps down from the chair afterward. But that's another story. This isn't the first time, huh? A senator, this highest. I'm sure the President will raise my hope. In the past, he has done so by his words, actions, and conduct. Now I don't remember a number what this speech is, actually, I didn't read it by the dog. The head of the State Department, but I saw it somewhere, and I remember that she was wondering about the number on the talk that day. But this speech I'm about to discuss, hopefully, is the subject for what? A senator. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, answering the question I raised earlier, was the members of the Independence Party made clear before they agreed that this matter should be presented in the form it is now? I hear it at the highest. President that it's all mixed up, and I'm happy because it tells me that, despite all things, the Independence Party members are still men of the blackness that were once, cautious, balanced men who want to make decisions on the basis of the best data. This case is so big, as we have seen, and it cannot be thrown to the hands of its payment. It's just not possible. It's not a defender for any man. Therefore, Mr. President, all members of Congress, not just the senators who are here and who are now in a state of mildness, but all of us must respond, take responsibility for this matter, and render it decently. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u79	Because of a question. The senator can inform him that this was his 46th speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u80	I'm glad, Mr. President. Thank you for this information. This was useful, and now the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee is sure to know the number she needs to respond to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u81	V.E.G. President. I was just surprised because I thought that was what I was doing. paritaprevir The Sigmundur of Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson was next in the speaker, had seen it online, but I'll be happy to report to the president of a three - pack energy pack.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u82	Hv. 3.m. That's the north side. Comes back all the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u83	V.E.G. President. It's been 30 seconds, but let's move on, let's not make a big deal out of it. In the haste, I forgot my natural questionnaire, but I think I'll remember it to some extent. At least I continue to reflect on the question I have already asked, and I sincerely hope that some of the members of the council who are a follower of the case and are listening to their efforts to answer it. I took a look at the previous list and as it says on the screen, at least I'm not sure. number two classes in the hall. Maybe they're in their offices, I don't know, but there's nobody from the classifications of the Forest and the Gang of the People. As far as I can remember, they classed or represented them, making comments that the senators were not in a chamber at work. Therefore, it is a question of whether the president will see if he or she is certain to be awake by any of the good people. But I don't care. A respectable president. I've come up with a matter of great importance that my knowledge is related to the discussion that I've been discussing and trying to appeal to the management council to come up and answer some questions about the bigger picture, which is the European Union's energy policy, which includes the introduction of the first and second energy directives, a pack of three and a pack of four energy. It has now become clear that the introduction of the common rules, i.e. model 72/2009, it is not confined to land or to national energy sources, but also to economic and national legislation. I wondered if the followers of the matter were aware that this is the case. This will make Iceland's situation even more difficult if a private agency is to file a case against the Icelandic State or Power Institute or something to the government that intends to prevent the person from bringing his own energy or energy from buying from his private or other sources. This is important in my mind and should, of course, be taken into consideration as 72. The fourth energy pack is listed which will change in that package. So it's supposed to be updated, and we haven't been able to find out who that update is. Therefore, it is a bit foolish to intend to agree to the design and article at the same time, and we know that it is about to change and will not see what the change will be. I wonder, Mr. President, is it safe to say that this is irresponsible? As a result, I find myself again trying to figure out what is on the minds of these fine senators. I realize that the members of the two parties want to move on because they want to get into the European Union so nasty, but that the government groups that so far have not been advocates of joining the European Union, except maybe some part of the Independence Party and, in fact, within the left green too, I think, this may change, there's always a change, I don't want to see it. No member of the board has been eager to come on a public speaker and explain to me or to other members of the council why this is not examined in this way, why it is simply regarded as irrelevant. [[The president calls.]] What is it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u84	Mr. President. I just wanted to get in there a little bit more like that. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson talked about. Actually, I was going to take an answer to what. A senator, but something's wrong, and I don't share with a president about it. But what is noteworthy about this latest news is that almost every day, just the last days, there are news related to this matter. We saw reports of a sea cable preparation, apparently, in Britain's Times, a respected paper in that country, of the fact that a British nobleman had already filled his resources, or, as a good thing, fixed a sea cable, i.e. that financing would be guaranteed by sea cables up to the country, which would create a number of job opportunities in Britain. It mentions about 25 investors and a large bank, which would also be involved in this, U.S. bank J.P. Morgan. So it's quite clear that this matter has gone very far, changing the discussion to the council, though, in my opinion. It deserves discussion, because there has been an argument that the cable is not on its way, we don't have to worry about it, it doesn't mean anything to accept this energy package, etc. Then came an interesting article from the former chairman of the Independence Party, the Þorsteinn of Pálsson, entitled "Right to put a full membership back on. " Then it refers to a European Union application and argues that now the conditions associated with the third energy package are that, taking these steps really means that we are entering the European Union's inner market by implementing these rules of energy, and that the evidence against full involvement, as he states in his own article, weakens. This is interesting news, and new news is being received daily. You wonder if it really is, in fact, a change of direction for such a person. The independence category for viewing should be part of the European Union. There is something worthy of attention, and you usually listen when the former chairman of the Independence Party and former prime minister, the Þorsteinn son of Pálsson, appears on the desk. In this case, he has stepped into the discussion in a decisive way. The point is that there is something behind that we don't know exactly, some grounds, interests that haven't been introduced, and that's why this case is being run through. It's obvious when it comes to the Convergence and Action, like wind. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson came in earlier, that there are groups that want to join the European Union, and they accept everything that comes from it. I remember that the Conspiracy had declared support for this project, in this introduction, without having studied the evidence or the council documents. [[The president calls.]] But this is an interesting case which I would like to address afterwards, Mr. President, and wish to be reassigned on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u85	The president encourages you. Councilmen to give a sign on time within five minutes of speaking if they are moved to comment or to respond to their members after all these meetings, which are now well into a later hundred hours in length. Two o'clock. Senators have requested an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u86	Three.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u87	Three. [[Up front.]] Yeah, well, I guess it's time to review the rules. Never too often is a good reference. But then the rule is that time is shortened for one minute in the second round.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u88	President. I feel like there's some tone in the President that he thinks this discussion is long now. But there is a great danger that it will be much longer, so we do not have much effort to answer the questions that we have directed to the followers of this matter. If a president could help or step into men and ask them to come up here and answer us, that would be most welcome. Thank you. A senator for the speech. You're right. The senator came in here, that we have, of course, been informed about new or changed things in this matter all, such as with the cable. It has been said that when it comes to private or non- administrations, it is beyond doubt that a so - called advance is really of no value. We've seen that. It has also been noted that the fourth energy package is ready. There are so many things that have been clarified in this discussion. The only thing that has not been clarified is why the greater part of government places such emphasis on this matter. We know why the Controversies want to, but why does the board want to do that? You wonder, " Why this silence? ' Is there something you're not telling us? I don't usually raise questions like that in the General Meeting chair, but I'm starting to get the feeling there's something behind you that you don't really like. But now the time is natural, so I'd like to ask the senator if he ever got that feeling? Similarly, I would like to ask the senator to explain how important this article is to the former prime minister and head of the Independence Party, the Þorsteinn of Paul's son. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u89	Thank you. Senator, Mr. President. Of course, you have wondered if something is going around that we have not been informed about. I traced e.g. in my speech before the day my concern is that some senators are very happy that companies such as Elkem at Grundartana have to pay a lot higher power prices than they have. That joy could be temporary. I must say, Mr. President, because it is quite clear that such companies as Elkem, who have had problems now have to pay considerably higher power prices. It could eventually be that the company stopped the operation, and then I think those senators who have welcomed these news will not celebrate. Businesses such as Elkem of Grundartan provide a lot of employees with employment. Then you wonder, because of it. A senator rightly mentioned it, whether there are interests involved. Is it possible, on the contrary to what they've previously said about a energy pack one and two, that their goal may be to get the big business out of the country? That this is what their ideals are about in these areas, and this is the way, because there's a chance they can sell their energy to Europe? However, business in this country suffers. I'm rolling it up here. This is one of the factors you cannot avoid considering.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u90	A respectable president. I've kind of found it even more remarkable to the left green position how much the group suddenly stresses that energy coming, the resources of the country, is being used for a market purpose, that energy has become commercial products like any other product that flows from country to country. It's quite clear that this group has completely changed the course of it. In fact, this may be as serious in this category as the fact that we stopped participating in the NATO community. It's actually a joke. Left green goes to one government after another, always leaving it behind. You begin to wonder if it is the same with the Independence Party when it comes to the European Union. It has become some kind of joke in the Independence Party to be opposed to the European Union, as the former head of the Independence Party points out, that the category may now be helping to help us become members of this unfortunate union there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u91	Mr. President. Yeah, I think we're gonna do it. A senator has brought a very interesting point, to help us enter the European Union. I think that it may be very helpful to argue because the induction of this energy package implies that once the step is taken to the full, this overnational power over our energy issues has been established, i.e. The European Union's energy agency, ACER, comes in to govern these matters, not us. That is why there is evidence that we are so far in the European Union's regulations that it is time for us to have an impact on them, and that is what happens when we become members of the European Union. [[The president calls.]] I think it's a very interesting point. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u92	Mr. President. I thought we had a problem. The senator's intense interest is due to the large context of this case, the relationship between Iceland and the European Union, and the relationship between Icelandic politicians and the relationship to that relationship, or perhaps the right thing to say to Icelandic politicians and to the relationship. Pálsson, former prime minister and prime minister of the Independence Party, was the first to point out that the warnings so - called, or avoided, we have never known whether this should be in the plural, or in the singular, were a delusion, let us say first in a striking way. Today or evening, or yesterday, Mr. President, the time passes, the Þorsteinn Pálsson pointed to something else that may later seem to be obvious, that the permissiveness of the independent party to the European Union in this energy package may be a sign of some kind of new awakening within the EU and possibly of the membership party, at least has caused many in the rationale of those who speak for the induction of the third energy package had high consonance with what is needed to form a whale. Councilmen of the Revolution and of the United States have reported the exact relationship between Iceland and the European Union. [[The president calls.]] Counts 'em out. A senator that we see the potential change in independence from the European Union?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u93	Mr. President. That's a very interesting question. A senator and I thank him for the answer. Could we be seeing the transition between the Independence Party and the European Union? Clearly, the group is divided on this matter and the former chairman of the sect, the Þorsteinn of Pálsson, and the former prime minister, suggests that this is a way to try to make peace within the category, i.e. Of course, the band would stress that it would be a national agreement to re-start Memberal discussions and it might be a way for the pack to try to appeal to the grass root and to show that the class stresses direct democracy, etc. However, if you examine this article, which is interesting, as well as the prefect of the Independence Party. That's where he talks, for example. of positive fermentation in European politics and notes that there would be an end to the euro, etc. has not walked in and has not been the resolution of Europe, which many have spoken to. He lists these positive factors. But about a question why. A senator is the most informative subject to research whether he is becoming a policy change for the Independence Party at least. It is quite surprising how important they are to introduce this package of energy, which is, at the time of the power market. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u94	Mr. President. This is certainly about the discussion of the third energy package. It has been a bit of an understatement for us to try to analyze the reasons why the greater part is taking place in the way he does so, for this would help us to understand the nature of the energy package and what may be expected in related matters in the future. You could say that at least the article "The Þorsteinn of Pálsson " provides a clue. But I would like to add it to the article, as I did only in my previous answer, that I think it is so much a harmony with the logic of the European Union, the restoration and the United States, and then the rational support of the independents, at least. Part of them, at the council, who have spoken for the induction of the package. [[The president calls.]] Is it not perhaps by chance that humans support the introduction in the same way?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u95	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. The essence of this point is that the European Union's regulations are being introduced that go beyond what we have seen in the past, i.e. We are laying the foundation for participating in this common market area in a decisive way. Previous energy packages were the introduction of electricity in the country, the exchange of the industry, etc., but now it's time to step to the finish. In this regard, I fully understand the reasoning of the former chairman of the Independence Party, the Þorsteinn of Pálsson. There is evidence that we have come so far that we must begin to influence the development of events in the European Union, and that is what we do with involvement. [[The president calls.]] It is taking one step and one step to argue that in the eyes of these Europeans, it may eventually just be best to stay within the relationship. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u96	Mr. President. I think it was Lao Tse who, on permission from president, said: "A multi mile journey will begin on one step. Maybe it's just what we're looking at here, that the Independence Party is converging so the pan-European forces -- now the fusion theory comes back -- that there's no turning back. Now I'm not that piece of cream that the Þorsteinn of Pálsson's name is, and I don't know the darkness of the Independence Party like him. On the other hand, it is very interesting. A senator has wondered about this, that we have to understand why these three groups making up the government have all turned 180° into their attitude toward the energy package. We have to understand what makes them all to betray their campaign promises from last election and put them behind their words to their voters in this way. We must understand what is behind it. What is more important to these three groups than to be honorable, to keep your word? What is more important? Is that a good thing to do? Is that a completely different attitude? The obvious fact is that these good people know something we don't know, and they don't want to tell us because we've been asking so many questions. We're in a hurry. The question is, what is it? This has been seen in small doses because all the news we have received during the past few weeks was due to be received after this matter was resolved. I'd like to have some of that. A senator to bring it back. [[The president calls.]] That's the point, isn't it? [[The president calls.]] All of this was not to be left in our possession.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u97	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. Yes, of course, you wonder why these groups put so much emphasis on putting the matter through, such as this. Left greens that have spoken and spoke strongly against a energy pack one and two, and you would have thought it wasn't a market worry group. But it is obvious that the category has become a marketingal party, which is naturally incredible. I'm thinking that the root of the pack will not survive unless they simply pass away if that is the result. But they are apparently willing to take that risk, and then there must be some real interests behind them. Perhaps that idea I put here, whether it is possible that the left green could see there the possibility that the major industry could be removed, as it were. This is a group that has always been opposed to a major industry in the country and does not seem to worry that these companies could leave the country and that they would probably welcome it, but at the same time many and hundreds of families would lose their livelihood, lose jobs and export income would also be affected, important exports. It was now that after the collapse, these were companies who made a huge difference to us. This may be behind us as far as the left green is concerned. - I see that time is over, Mr. President, I may be coming into other categories later. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u98	Mr. President. I thought it was mostly two things that would make men so completely shifted from politics to politics, either ideals or interests. And now I do not have the faith, Mr. President, unfortunately, that these three groups that we are speaking of today, the government groups, have an abundance of ideals that might be the reason. That leaves the other show, the interests. The question is, Who are they? Who's holding them? To whom are they useful? That's what we need to find out next, for it was an interesting teaching. A senator showed earlier that he might want to push the left - green area out of the country. This is remarkable, though, because there are also countless wind mills and small inactivations, so it is not completely compatible. [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator may be able to explain this a little more clearly in his later answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u99	Mr. President. Yeah, it's gonna blow a little bit. It's possible to imagine that the left greens make us the largest exporter of pure energy, and that's what the policy is, and that people are willing to give up their jobs. In terms of Europe, industry will likely have to suffer because these companies simply have to compete with electricity prices in Europe in most other places. It will naturally mean that these enterprises will cause serious problems because the distance from markets is much higher from here than from companies in the mainland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u100	Mr. President. We would need to continue our discussion of what has been the exception of what is causing three political parties, three members of the United States, to make a complete change in the course of the middle. I mentioned it earlier when I went through the comments of a former boy. A senator and a chief. Minister of Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, who warned against this matter, that I did not believe that all members of the council, especially members of the Independence Party, may be in my position, ignored such a warning. I didn't want to believe it because these are not the only warnings that have been made. There was a natural warning in a paper from two fine lawyers who have often been mentioned on the name here, the Friðrik of the Árni Friðriksson Hirst and Stefánsson Motorsson, who immediately interpreted their position and, in fact, moved them to sharpen it, possibly to a better degree on the purpose that the Ministry had in charge of the matter. But as far as today, there are reports, reports, information, and information that fall to the same level. I said before in answer, and therefore only struck down on my head, that if everything had been taken according to plan ◯ of the government groups, this case would already be approved and we would take care of everything else. It would have made no difference in the information about the cables that occurred last day, the information of Arnar Þór Jónsson that appeared last morning, information about what was lost outside the fact that they were lost, which has happened this week. All of this would have been left alone, and we would have been standing in front of a thing, i.e. We would have faced the fact that a pack of three energy was already approved as a concierge and that the matter was over. Let us watch the timelines from the beginning of this discussion for two weeks, although it did not delay the council for about two weeks, for we have done a considerable overtime work with members of the council who have been involved. At the time of our discussion, we have received information that we had not previously published. Would that have changed anything? I don't know. I think it would have made a difference if this had become the General Assembly resolution, and now it would have been shown to do that, the information that has been presented in these last days. I'd say, Mr. President, in view of what happened, for example. In the evening news of TV last night about public opinion, who wanted a further presentation on the case, who wanted to know more about the matter, just as we would like to know more about the matter, that the people in Iceland would certainly have been suspicious if he had received information about the cable that we got on the table last day and if he had received e.g. The information that happened with Arnar Þór Jónsson yesterday morning and the synod had been approved. All of this goes to the same well. It's got to be discussed. We owe it to the people that we do. The case must be postponed. There's no way to avoid it, no matter what a man can thrash and hum. I further encourage the government groups and accessory bodies to recognize and turn this issue aside, and they will be better informed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u101	President. One of the reasons we feel that this matter needs to be examined more closely is the fact that a four - pack energy package has been supplied in the European Union, so its content and effect should be possible. Naturally, questions arise, and the following events have not been successful or have not had the will to arise and answer questions. One of the questions I've asked is what it means to change or update the power of a so-called ACER institution. Will that have meaning here at home? For example, will this have meaning regarding the role of the Power Agency? How will it affect a general company that handles energy and falls to some extent under that command? Another is in a pack of four energy, and this is the focus of construction efficiency. One of the facts, if I do not forget, in the review of the Industrial Association, is just a little worried about the developments that may exist in the European Union and urge Iceland's interests to be specifically promoted because of our activity in geothermal and so forth. I'm asking why. A senator whether this is just another reason to look into this matter further, including Based on the warnings of the industry's Association, which in fact agrees with the contents of a pack of three energy, to be stated. [[The president calls.]] But now we have this fourth in front of us, don't we need to consider the context?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u102	Mr. President. It's good to keep it up. Whatever it is. One more thing that we would not have known is that a senator would have agreed to the proposal if not for this dissident, this discussion that is deeper and deeper every day. Then we'd have had an approved concierge proposal. We'd have received reports of the fourth energy package at her approved position. We would have been accepted by Arnar Þór Jónsson. We would have received all this information that has been growing into this place in the days that have been gone, unless the synopsis had been accepted and cleared, the result. Now you ask: Is it because of the rush? Would men be willing to put the Senate arrangement to shelter, approved, before news of the fourth energy package, before news of what we've been picking together, that the warnings have been destroyed, all that has been dug up for the last time? Is that what causes? But no one will answer us. And I compliment myself. paritaprevir It's Vilhjálmur Árnason's place for sitting here with us, but he's sitting quietly. Hopefully, he will bring word to his companions about what we have considered now and hopefully he will bring it to the head of the foreign committee, why. paritaprevir Associating Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir's daughter, who wants to answer any question or who claims to have done so, reports that there are some questions left. How grateful she would be if she arrived and answered them and fulfilled her resolve to answer all the questions! [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u103	President. It's getting a little bit interesting. It's kind of like an election night. V.E.G. The president regularly gives the latest figures over the number of discourses and such. All it takes is for it to hang up the political criticism that is regular in Our Kingdom News on election night, and to be able to identify it, in fact, he was trying it the other day, the fine man. Of course, this issue is not about the number of discussions or sessions, although the media and especially the Kingdom News seem to be most interested in them. It is, of course, about the questions and content we are trying to dissipate and get answers. But let it lie in between things. I'd like to ask a few more questions that I think are necessary to ask before the case is finished, and the obvious is perhaps: What is the connection between a pack of three and four, i.e. if we look at the overall picture of the changes? This is clear, and we see that certain things will change, but we do not know how. We haven't had any studies on that. Similarly, we haven't been able to see whether the overall structure of the government was wrapped up, so to speak, it's a little odd to put it this way, I realize that experts who have discussed the matter might say something else in their three energy reviews if they knew what was in the fourth. Maybe they'd say, "Let's stop now." We have to take care of the government program? It's possibly too big or it doesn't matter, too little or how it's all gone. But it will not be any further because we know what this means when the fourth is coming after us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u104	Mr. President. I'm biden to the highest. The President's talks for convenience for RUS who may be looking at this broadcast and a tag in the hatch in order to publish a new Euroview list tomorrow over minutes and numbers. But that's another story. That's the exact comment you made. Senator. I'll still find out where we could be if the government groups had gotten their way and the proposal had been approved before the four energy package information came, before the last information came from Arnar Þór Jónsson. So where are we standing? It may be this thing that was so bent on finishing and spending all these nights trying to prevent all that night from being spent trying to dig up whatever is missing in the matter. Now, however, there are many points on the table of this: What if the case was taken care of, it would be gone to the government, and we would be seated after accepting a proposal that we didn't know two weeks ago? I think this is the whole point, and this is what I think is one of the biggest reasons for it, and there are many and large, because the case is going to be whistled about for now, taken aside, examined and examined, and looked better, including... the effect as long as it takes. A senator mentioned, a relationship between a third and a fourth energy package. I think it's absolutely necessary for us to do this to finish the case with someone. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u105	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. There's a subject I don't feel that I've talked about, and in this context there's very little discussion, i.e. how the government has distributed this energy package in this country. I'd like to say that marketing is pretty blue ahead. There are certain slogans that have occurred during the marketing of the government, such as. that the energy package didn't matter and it's been examined for quite long enough. There are some products that have been used largely by the management forces: The energy package didn't matter. We've been looking at this for quite long enough. All the questions have been answered. This buys the public, I think, when it's said enough. And they've got a team of media, like, e.g. The government radio, which in my opinion has not been critical enough on this big, big case. Yet, the media are waking up a little bit, I feel, now in all the last records, and I want to, for example. Thank you for the morning paper and the will, for example. It is this imbalance that it is obvious, and we can see that the marketing of the government is much more powerful. They are doing much better with this than they are with us, the Central Party, who are trying to demonstrate that this is an unwise way by which the government is going. [[The president calls.]] In case of a moment. Perhaps a senator could come into this situation only.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u106	Mr. President. In part, I'm going to disagree. A senator because I don't think the nation bought the finesse. We saw last night in TV news where representatives of the public interviewed on the street said: "We want to know more. It is another matter, however, that, of course, the government groups have done much better with their information to the public than we do here. It's, for example. One thing I think I spoke here last night or yesterday or sometime, that a TV show I had with the highest. At some point in April, a minister of foreign affairs would have been quite different today, considering the information that has not come into place since then. And then the presentation of the subject on that subject would be quite different from what it became. I agree that, of course, the government medium, which costs 4,000 million dollars a year, should have taken the initiative to introduce the matter from both sides in a careful manner. Of course, he, in my opinion, should also have brought the news out of the house that did not protect the number on the talks or the length on them, or who had spoken most and who had spoken so much and anything like that, and in what order. I don't think it would have much to do with the contents of the third energy package itself. So it would have been far closer for the member of the state to give a careful discussion about what has been going on during the day of this discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u107	Mr. President. This is a very important part of this discussion, about the work of the media, the influence of the media, and their presentation in such matters as these matters that concern the public, as well as those of future generations. Perhaps it is part of the lack of the habit of looking ahead to the future, being able to foresee in time the effects this can have. To argue that the energy package actually has no effect, in part it is necessary to activate all of the measures, although the directives will act immediately, such as, e.g. For example, in the case of the Power Institute. The media do not see the future far enough, nor do they take the time to reflect on all aspects of the matter. I trust the media to do a good job in most cases, and we have some very careful journalists who should take a good time to get in the way of this. However, the media environment has become a different concern. It has been used to promote the media in some way because the market has become so big on their side. [[The president calls.]] This is the subject of a full talk that I could take later, but for now I'm saying it's good. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u108	Mr. President. At the beginning of this comment, I allow myself to give a quote to an ex - wile. paritaprevir Sighvatur the son of Björgvinsson, who is not in the Middle East, who has not been, I do not expect him to join us. He said: "If a pack of three doesn't matter, why are we wasting time talking about it? Why, then, the rush to get him through the council? That's absolutely right. So I'm totally agreeing with this ex-whit. Senator. On the other hand, that is what happened. A senator told us about the media. That's right, though, we have quite a number of problems with the media. But now I understand that the arrival of a bill to the council will be short, where the media will be more and less publicized. In itself, we have no outstanding experience in the fact that the state is running a lot of money into the media. I mention e.g. The national radio that costs more than 4 billion of the tax a year that the people all pay until the end of the country. I have not seen that this nation's investment comes in very careful publicity, e.g. with respect to or with funprograms. But that's another story. Since trouble follows each, hopefully the media and the media will realize that if they become more and less Kingdom strength soon, they will have to make more demands on them on a careful trial and so forth. [[The president calls.]] I hope we get better news then.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u109	Mr. President. I hope to remind the President that by the end of two nights, I was discussing Cyprus and the experience Cyprus has in fixing a sea cable or plans for fixing a floating cable that is new to Iceland, I think, very well aware of evaluating this third energy package, because it is very relevant to the common EU energy agency, ACER. Cyprus is an island. I agree with it in the same way that the head of Energy Miguel it in a joint statement with the highest power. Secretary of State that Iceland is an island, but as a result, experience or example of Cyprus can provide us with insight into what may be expected of this energy agency, ACER, in terms of the fixation of a cable. Today, Cyprus is associated with Greece and, indeed, with Israel, by means of a cable, electric cable, through Crete, and then directly to Israel. That is, as far as I'm next able, there's no particular debate in Cyprus. I think that island lacked electricity significantly more than we do here in Iceland. But what is interesting about Cyprus is how the matter has been handled. That project began with a private firm, investors, expressing interest in attacking a cable. As soon as it was available and financed, this is particularly interesting, Mr. President, with the news of the Sunday Times this weekend for the proposed cable to Iceland - mixed ACER in its case, it is stated in the regulations of the institution that it should immediately be reported in the presence of investors and funding which may lead to cross-border connections and should immediately be reported to the ACER so that the Agency can oversee or monitor the progress of the project and ensure that there are no barriers, no unusual obstacles, whether they are business or political or technical. This was reported to ACER, and the progress of this case was actually monitored by ACER. But then, an interesting thing happened recently. This project, apparently, was upset by some of the investors who had planned to attack the sea cable at least excessive emphasis on building electrical energy systems around Athens, in the opinion of ACER. As a result, these investors were somehow infringinging off the money they had received from this institution. The latest news is that this issue is still in conflict because the ACER places so much emphasis on the priorities that they secure this cross-border link, secure a link to the island of Cyprus. However, in view of the third energy package, it is specifically mentioned on the ACER project field that links to areas previously isolated to form islands are in priority. We can only imagine whether a link to the much environmentally renewable energy produced in Iceland would not be considered a priority on this institution, as well as on the possibility of drawing strength from the European Union. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u110	President. I thank the senator for his talk and for having finally taken the Cyprus talk seriously. A man has been waiting for this fine example. It is necessary, I think, to apply it, if the senator would be so kind and have the time to draw up a comparable situation as he described in Iceland. I remind you that a company that wants to take a cable to Iceland will probably be able to, and the state will not be able to stop it in a good way, considering what we've seen recently. Is it so then that, despite all the warnings and reports that this ACER agency will not reach Iceland, she will, however, do it in an indirect way? Because although ESAs are dealing with issues or divulges about Iceland, I don't think it's the right thing to remember. Senator, that it is carefully written in the methodology how ACER will arrive at the solution? And it is expected that this ACER institution will use the same argument or try to get ESA to make decisions that will make the solutions on the market uniform, since it is a declared policy, not just the Agency or its projects, but, of course, the European Union. Is it possible for the senator to apply this in Iceland? This may call for more talk than one answer. But also regarding the development that ACER will have the verses of the ESA, however...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u111	Mr. President. In a sense, it was fine for me not to finish this brief review of the relationship between Cyprus and her sea cable until now because there has been so much clear in the meantime. This interest now lies in, and not only the plans of British investors to connect to Iceland for sea cables, fully funded plans, as the Sunday Times says, and there is also the opinion that the third energy package will be introduced when investing banks and claiming to be willing to connect the Council will not be able to do anything to stop it. But questions why. A senator is big. On the one hand, the question of how this will work is. It is quite clumsy for me not to have in mind the regulations that are particularly relevant to this matter, but I read them in preparation for this talk about Cyprus. They're available. I will then have to discuss it in the next talk. But I can immediately answer a question. A senator on the interaction of ACER and ESA. This has been mentioned by the government here as a sign that the two pillars are still valid, that it is really not the ACER involved in the situation here, but it is all through ESAs. But it's all very clear how that happens. As a result, the ESA accepts a formula or subtracts, as it is called, it could be called a reference, which is said to the ESA to follow up. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u112	President. I know why. A senator will continue to answer that question in a later answer. Am I mistaken, am I? A senator, that in the export of this interaction of ACER and ESAs, the shall be made, or the use of ◯shall, that ESA should do this and that? This suggests that it is considered that ACER is of greater importance than ESAs, the monitoring agency. Therefore, it may also be wondered that the initiative, especially, or the suggestion for solutions, should be no less from ACER than from ESA. Actually, I'd like to follow this up, Mr. President, with an extra question. It reports that the ACER Institute's role will now be altered in the fourth energy package. Clearly, the rules will be updated and there will also be increased authority. In view of the Cyprus situation, it is not unusual to continue with a pack of three energy alone and not try to assess the overall impact of these changes on ACER and the induction of Icelandic reality and to make an informed decision whether the overall effect is e.g. has become so intense that we want to say stop now, but don't try to say stop later when it becomes impossible or can't be done? It's the questionable, respectable President I have of the Cyprus adventure.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u113	Mr. President. I certainly do not consider this to be a miscommunication or mismatch at the time of the winter. After making a careful study of this, a senator and actually, I have found it practical to listen to some of the whales. The members of the board, while they were still communicating, argue that one of the main advantages of this induction or of its survival, was the fact that the two supporting systems were protected through ESAs. However, scholars pointed out this, including. To the Foreign Affairs Committee, this would be especially the one that challenged the two supporting systems because it would be very easy to claim that ESAs were in charge. But I would add this and say that not only the ESA is actually the invitation to ACER when all of this is done, but that there can be an intermediary or an ESA's role in this case, in fact, an extra load in Iceland. Because it is specifically stated that ESAs have the potential or right to direct comments to ACER. It cannot be understood as different from what is meant by the fact that the ACER missed out on some of the rules of follow-up, the energy package, so that the ESA can be viewed as an additional monitoring of Iceland and, of course, Norway and Liechtenstein as well. But the other question is... Of course, the senator on the fourth energy package is enormously large, as is its effect. We are still working to learn that effect. I hope, Mr. President, that we will be able to have a detailed discussion about it here Friday. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u114	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. When he discussed the connection to Cyprus, I was very interested. In addition, he named Israel in this regard and the means by which ACER came to their attention. This has been the case during discussions at the council and at the beginning of this discussion here - especially since then. paritaprevir So Ari Trausti Guðmundsson kept saying that ACER was not involved in any connection between countries. Now we've got a what? paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunuga's Gunnlaugsson cleared this claim. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, showing again and again how many misinformation exist in the case of a member of the board. This makes you think that either these senators are not at fault with the matter or they are trying to mislead the discussion. Of course, that's a serious thing. But there goes reason. A senator gives us reason to believe that ACER is really the overwhelming authority we have always claimed to be in control, a link between countries, and all the administrative decisions associated with it, and thus we have nothing to say that is specifically responsible for the sovereignty. In case of a moment. A senator might be able to take a little closer to this arrival, then I own, for example. to the administrative element and whether the state has nothing to say about it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Whether he knows about the Cyprus case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u115	Mr. President. Yes, I recall that comment as a bit. A senator points to nothing. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson. It surprised me, I'll say exactly as it is. In fact, other surprises came to me in statements as to why. paritaprevir Ari Guðmundsson in this matter, especially with regard to nature protection. But that's another story. This example of Cyprus is very vivid to us Icelanders because there are so many things in common with the position we are in and now look ahead, especially with the Sunday Times. But it should be possible that, of course, this is further in the European Union, but we are on the same path. And the third energy pack already expects this added role of ACER. But then the personal question arises. Senator. It was very clear to me that the power of ACER over the countries or the national rules, as they are called - it will be the energy institutions of the state that are really run, seems to me to be all, as some sort of branch office from the ACER - that after the problem I mentioned at the end of my talk, that the investors were not considered to be prioritised correctly, they put too much emphasis in the beginning of the building around Athens instead of going directly to the sea cable, they placed ACER right into the national order or energy agency of Greece for allowing this to happen. In fact, that is what the European Commission did. So that both of these lay on one, the Commission and the ACER, trying to sort of extract the energy agency of Greece. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u116	Mr. President. This is a very important introduction to this discussion. A senator has presented himself here. This shows that the examples prove how powerful this institution is and that it exists, the European Union energy agency, ACER. Here we have the examples, and that's exactly what we're supposed to put out and then we can transfer them to Iceland when a cable gets here. It's clear then that the way we find out that this is not going to be the case. Experience should always be learned, to take a closer look at matters. Clearly, it is. Congress officials have not done so in this regard. Here we heard a misinformation. paritaprevir This is Ari Trausti Guðmundsson. He'd wish he was there. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson was here in the gym right now in order to reason with us. We have often complained about the indifference of other members of the council about coming into this discussion. There is no point in hiding behind the fact that everything that has been said has been said. Here are crystal clear examples of the way this agency works, and as a result, we have much fear that when the induction of the third energy package becomes reality. I want to thank you. A senator for making this clear because this is a very important part of the discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u117	President. I thank the answer and will endeavor to make an even more clear report of this, including reference. in the regulations used in examples such as this and particularly in this particular particular example of Cyprus. I can't help but agree with what. A senator is still amazed. Senators who support the conduct of this case, or seem to do so - they did the last thing they did when they spoke - would not try to correct us if they felt that we were being wrong. That's all I'm asking. I don't even hope they answer questions anymore. But it would be received right away and would deepen the discussion further if they were to correct us if they thought that we were taking some false information here. Nevertheless, this discussion has proved to be very helpful. And still tonight, we've been discovering new surfaces on this matter, and hopefully we can continue to deepen this discussion on Friday, especially if our study of the fourth energy package allows us to put it into contact with the third. But because of him. A senator mentioned that there were few answers here, few to watch, almost none, yet I want to say that the noble man is not. paritaprevir Will Árnason is sitting here with us in the gym. We appreciate it. Of course, we wanted him to take part in the discussion and to respond to us. Let's see. It can still happen. In any case, we thank and appreciate his presence here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u118	Mr. President. I'd like to continue my coverage of electrical agreements to the industry and how determined it is. Councilmen have rejoiced that the electricity prices for the major industry are increasing, in particular the electronic agreement to Elkem, which yesterday announced that the electrical prices to the company had gone up considerably. I pay attention to celebrating the news. While it is important to pay a fair and natural price for electricity, we must not raise or change these agreements so that such companies simply do not see the benefit of having a job in this country longer and putting down their activities. Workers have expressed concern about this. Vilhjálmur Birgisson, as I mentioned in the previous talk on the same topic, has expressed deep concern that electrical prices are raising largely to these companies. I particularly talked about Elkem in this regard, but now I'd like to step on a nuclear agreement with the Straumsvík. In 2010, land activation made an electrical agreement with the Baals, and almost since then, the Straumsvík was driven by losses. I think many can agree that it remembered very little that Insal stopped working in 2015. It would have been a shock to the job, there are a lot of jobs that are created in connection with the company's activities, both the direct work there and the secondary work that are numerous, i.e. Various companies serve the plant. Little did it happen that the company would leave work with unexpected consequences for us. In effect, it was the mother's partner, or a motherhood responsibility, for the electrical contract that prevented the closing. Then you wonder, " Is Land activation policy developing to cause business employers to slow and bite in the way that they can't see themselves able to work here anymore and would lose thousands of jobs if they did? ' Let's not forget that there's excess power in the system today. She won't be useful. It is possible that these enterprises may reduce their activity, may not stop, but may reduce their activity, which is expected to affect the survival of the enterprises and electrical agreements, which in most cases are of rest-related, i.e. Business business. It has to be said that there is concern about how Landing has handled its affairs in this regard and the need to discuss this matter in the context of this discussion. [[The president calls.]] I'll get into the matter afterwards and continue to discuss it, Mr. President, and wish to be reassigned on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u119	President. I thank the senator for his speech. Yes, there is concern as to how evolution seems to be and how difficult it is to see what the aims of the company are of such a high energy price that is obviously starting to annoy or even undermine the activities of this large company on the land. It is good to consider whether further changes in the common energy market in Europe may lead to an even greater increase in energy prices, if it is a declared policy of land activation to be any price, I don't know exactly what this is all called, but if it continues to increase, whether it will lead to further growth in the enterprises which have it. A senator mentioned. Perhaps the main question is, Does the experience teach us that it is a growing snowbolt? There's one thing I want to shoot at. Senator. Now it is clear that the watchman who was placed or found to be somewhere on - or the warnings - does not guarantee an Icelandic state or Power agency for a private lawsuit. Is it not necessary, then, for us to look for ways to do so if the warning is to make it necessary to do so so so that he also keeps to them? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u120	Mr. President. I think this is a very good tip for a man. Senator. For these reasons, it has not been kept in mind that other people may have a requirement for improvement. It is important to keep in mind, and this has been the subject of the discussion. I'd like to say in terms of the fact that it is a very responsible part of a public company, such as Land induction, to go by surprise in a way that are actually putting these companies against a wall. Let's not forget that while the electrical price could be higher for these companies, and I fully support that the contracts are revised and tried to find a flat surface in the way that the electrical price can be used, the view that we have to bear in mind is that such companies cannot be placed against a wall so that they can even see their advantage in quitting. Electric agreements are like any other deal and just like the EEA deal. There are two parties involved in the contract, and it's a principle to make a deal between the parties. There must be also in this case, or there will be unexpected consequences that may be devastating to us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u121	President. It is true that when contracts are made, both parties are endeavoring to make a measure of agreement or to be at ease with one another. However, it is that when people arrive at the bargaining table, they are not quite equal. Extensive investments have taken place in the companies, have been invested for tens or hundreds of billions in equipment and buildings and manpower and so forth, and are, of course, very difficult not to look at the big investment when it is being negotiated for energy prices. In this case, National Reactivation - and I agree with the senator that it is normal for such contracts to be revised, but I worry about the methodology and the limits of the business - and people don't stand equal when one party offers a product, in this case electrical energy, which the other needs to maintain the function. I understand all the concerns that have been reported, including from labor leaders Vilhjálmur Birgisson, Elkem, the company's labor leader, to believe that Land activation is in the position of taking advantage of the fact that the major investment there is that the company will, in the longest law, try to get back that investment. But there are some point of pain that cannot be covered, and the question is, of course, when they have become so concerned with the union leader that it becomes real. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u122	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Of course, we should listen to the labor movement in that regard. The labor movement in the country, the large unions, ASI, VR, has declared its opposition to this energy package at its induction, and there is a legitimate concern. They are a huge organization with very many members, thousands of members, and, of course, should listen to their voices. That is not what governments do. The workers are naturally concerned with their clients, increases in electricity to their homes, and then the job situation, i.e. whether the energy package can cause a substantial decrease in the work programme, to develop in industry. No consideration has been made. No study has been performed on the effects of the energy package on e.g. The industry in the country. This is a spontaneous and natural requirement when the government is conducted in such a way, the source of an energy package that will have some significant impact on the future, that is, some sort of analysis, we use the occurrence of a field-of-view analysis on this relationship, on the impact. This has not been done, which means that the matter is not sufficiently accomplished. This is the point, Mr. President, and therefore, of course, the case should be delayed and the concern of the persons I've reported is much deeper. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u123	President. I've been reviewing questions that I think are important about the fact that we're facing the so-called fourth energy package and the possible effects he may have on the future. It is reasonable to associate a pack of three energy with a pack of four. I've been asking questions that I believe are essential to finding answers. One question I'm wondering is, what will be the payment, because it now seems that the Norwegians got something ahead of us with the information and presentation of the fourth energy package, what will be the final payment on that town? Is it likely that there will be increased opposition there and perhaps there will be a similar situation in Iceland, that people in general, the nation, and the members of the council at least would be opposed to that induction? This is reason to take it slow, especially because we have the advantage, if you can call it an advantage, not to have walked all the way with a pack of three. Then there is another question: Is there any development in the fourth energy package that brings to those who want to build a power plant and put an electrical cable on their own and at its own cost from Iceland and possibly to Scotland and from Europe or Norway or any other, better devices or weapons for a lawsuit against Iceland if the State, Power Institute, or any other institutions, try to stop a string from being laid? We can try to figure it out if we take the time to access the fourth energy package. Then, of course, members of Congress will have to get out of their boxing mind, i.e. to think that in each box there is one pack of energy, because all of these directives and all of this Regulations that come from the European Union around the energy policy aims to produce the EU energy policy. It is, in fact, not compartmented down, but it is a universal policy, although it is introduced into parts, as it has been pointed many times, and the people fed it with a teaspoon, like a hot dog delivered into a man's mouth. But the policy is what's being introduced. I'd like to review a warning such as The attorney Eyjólfur's annual Ármannsson who specifically warned that it was dangerous, I allow to say, that the European Community's energy policy is introduced in Icelandic legislation or for Iceland, while we ourselves do not have our own energy policy to take account of it. Is that how it will be when long-term energy policy for Iceland finally turns out that it will be adapted to Europe? Will it need to paint a picture that is acceptable to the targets set by the European Union and with references that we have introduced these and the other types that must be taken into account? I think it's unnatural. It's the wrong priorities. The fact that we do not have long - term energy policy should do it on our own to want to take a closer look at it. I still believe that the case should be referred back to the EEA joint committee, at least to a great improvement, especially in the case, if the summer was to be held up to answer the many questions that have arisen on this big and important issue. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u124	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi the son of Sveinsson for his excellent speech. He entered the European Union energy policy. This raised some questions that I would like to ask. A senator. First, what do you think? A senator about the fourth energy package that came to light? It was approved last week at the Council of Ministers of Ministers of the European Union, as reported. This package of energy has not been seen here before our eyes in the high Council of our Icelanders. Doesn't that surprise you? The senator, since he has already agreed - is known to enable this energy package, which is a body of regulations and requirements in the European Union, the most recent, so-called winter package, to deal with the issues we are now dealing with, i.e. The induction of the third energy package, which is an old report in the European Union - why, on the other hand, we don't discuss the fourth energy package here, at least for introductions, and for reviews to look into the future in relation to the issues we are discussing here? It's like a driver driving and just looking ahead to the hood and perhaps making his move at all too fast for how far he can see. Don't think it's right. The senator's review of the matter as soon as this is true and will be set up at the Board of Directors?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u125	President. Since humans have the opportunity to peer into the future, i.e. To see what's in this fourth energy package, but it'll take a month, a considerable time, to get it done, and people have more time to study the contents, it's strange to not want to take advantage of that opportunity, because we're talking about a very big deal. We're talking about the nation's energy issues. We're talking about the nation's resources and the fact that we're here initiating EU energy policy in small doses. It's kind of fun to have a good time. A senator should take this illustration with the car or with the car, unless in this case we have so much prerogative. If we were to relax and introduce ourselves to this fourth package of energy - we could say that if we had planned to drive around the country in three months, we could now see what the weather was like and what the weather was like, and we could say that if we had planned to drive around the country in three months, what we wanted to cut past, and so on. - We're in the position today that if the board and the people who want to run this case against themselves to find out what's in a pack four, what the overall effect is from the induction of a pack of three and four, what's changed between the two packages, you can do it now. I don't mention it the least, considering that at least One of the ministers responsible for this matter in the council has said that in itself there is no hurry, even putting it off until the fall, at least. One of them, if not both.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u126	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. It is strange here to discuss the third energy package, its regulations and directives, and we will discuss their induction with this brief observation, especially the way the government is going to go, i.e. Do this on legal notice, which no one seems to be able to point us or say so that we understand or understand. It's weird to go that way, too, when we know that the fourth energy package has come to our attention in councils. He has been approved by the Council of Ministers of the European Council, but we are not allowed to see him. Still, we're about to introduce the third energy package here. Hv. A senator likened this to a ride, as I had done before. It is similar to going to winter in the marshes, on the summer sinks without looking at the weather forecasts before they leave. It makes just as much sense. Absolutely unpredictable, Mr. President. It's just a buggy start. What do you think? paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, the son of Sveinsson, about this illustration? I think that's what it looks like. The fourth pack of energy is not checked. It's not light. He's not introduced. The third pack of energy is here for discussion, and men make something called a legal company, which is a very fine word. The first time I heard it, I thought it was really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, But what do we see? We've been looking for doors and windows, with burning lights here for another week, but there's no answers. [[The president calls.]] The people need answers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u127	President. Regarding this legal advance that we've been looking for, scholars have said that no matter how this agent is or what the information they seem to have had in the past -- now I have the assurance that I'm not sure they've all seen the final version of the warning, it's probably just for home bridges. Since then, at least Four lawyers expressed themselves, as I have mentioned before, saying that there is no hold in this warning, whatever he is and wherever he is, to officials who would like to sue the State or institutions or to our institutions, they want to go on sea cables at their expense, but we try to stand in their way. There's one thing. Of course, the rest is more serious as a dog. A senator asked us not to get information about this fourth energy package, what its effect is. In questions directed to the State Department, I asked about this, the questions were six or seven, I think, something like that. They were answered in general, but it was said that a working group was working, having some consultation, and something like that. Why can't we see this? Why do we get e.g. Couldn't you see if you've done some memos or a legal opinion about this fourth energy package about its effect? Is that it? We do not even have answers to such questions. Has the administrative body ever had a presentation on this fourth energy package and its impact, he agrees with the third? We cannot answer that question. This has simply not been answered by what we have been asking about, even though we have pointed it out, indeed, in a legitimate way, since great interests are at stake for the country and the nation. It's really special, huh? Senator, how this case works.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u128	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I agree very much with him on the fact that it's very strange that we should not get information about the fourth energy package because it's completely hanging. It's not true for members of Congress like what they're doing. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, who said in an interview on the Internet servers yesterday that they should separate, take each package separately. That cannot be true in this matter. I think everybody sees that. I thought it was really good at what I did. A senator when he mentioned it here why we couldn't be given this information, memos he mentioned, law opinion, etc. Norwegians have received all this information, but the government holds them completely involved. For some reason, you have to conclude that the government, the government, who is trying to pass the case, simply doesn't want us to have enough information about the fourth energy package. The suspicion, Mr. President, is that once we have the fourth energy package, we will see even better where we are heading toward the end of our surrendering the sovereignty of our energy resources once we have the fourth energy package, that is the endpoint in this regard. Even if there's more, he's at least The endpoint in terms of the international authority given to the European Commission. But I appreciate it. A senator for making such an impression on what is to fear that we will receive this information. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u129	Mr. President. What does it mean for the future of energy in Iceland to produce both a pack of three and four energy? It's known, and we can see it. If we read the brief presentation on the European Union website on a pack of four energy, we will see that some adjustments are made. What does that mean for us? Is it really so that the generals don't want to know, that the followers of this case don't want to know about him, that they think it's better to handle this case and the rest will come sometime? It is irresponsible to think and work that way. It is irresponsible to refuse to recognize the overall effects when possible. However, if we were to talk about some matter that we know is somewhere along the horizon, saying just a pack of energy, you can't be expected to learn about it if you haven't been working on it, if the content or the changes have not been introduced. But we've met in front of us today. You can see the overall effect, and I find it very special when politicians come up and say it's not related, it's done in some box or bite when the whole effect is what's important to you and what's gonna matter to you. If we had a vision of all our work at the General Assembly, whether it was a legal bill or a political arrangement, we would be in serious trouble.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u130	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. This is a very specific case, in my opinion, that we should be kept away, as it were, the fourth energy package information because it is available. Norway has received the information, and it is only a minimum standard when it comes to such a big matter as being discussed in the council that all information is available. The members of the Middle Ages and I have been busy with the fact that we need important information, and that's why we continue this discussion. We're calling for information. We are calling for other members of Parliament to participate in the discussion. We wanted a foreign minister to come here specifically, and he did, but he did not make much money with the answers he gave us. Many who were hairy and some were simply not responding. It's a little business that doesn't work, and you ask yourself, " What's the point? Why is our information being kept away? Why do governments not see their interests in the pursuit of everything? There must be a government's advantage that the subject is well informed, not wanting to be blamed in later stages for keeping secret information that can be of great importance. You suspect that information is being kept from members of the Parliament, and it is not good luck to control it. The point is, the connection between a pack of three and four energy, like a dog. A senator has given good talks, is irrefutable. [[The president calls.]] There is an irrefutable connection between these factors that must be explained more clearly and all information about.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u131	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. In fact, it would be minimal for the followers of this case, who feel that it does not matter how a pack of energy appears to follow a pack of three, to come and explain it to us, at least answer the questions why it is. In view of the lack of a link between a pack of three and four energy, I would like to mention that in the list of energy packs four, please note that the Regulation 72/2009, which we are, among other things, is Regulation 72/2009. will change in the fourth energy package. If it's not a direct connection, I just don't know what a direct connection is, I have to say it. It is currently stated and specifically stated that this type will change, in fact, 714/2009, the new Regulation, but a new one will be implemented. You wonder, Mr. President, what makes it so? Councilmen present themselves in this way, or they really shut up. I understand the highest. Today, the president of the Generals has some statements in the News News magazine, but the matter is no less about expressing themselves here and presenting opinions instead of silence.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u132	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for reviewing the importance of the relationship between a third and a fourth energy package. This is one of the points that have not been discussed on the part of the rulers, as if it were a clean, direct secondary point in their mind. Of course, it is surprising and speculative that this energy package is not discussing sensitive issues, which are obviously sealed permanently in a pack of four. It is unpleasant to those in charge, something that they obviously do not think, and that is why the government is holding on to it. However, it is only reasonable and reasonable for members of Congress to be informed on all aspects of the matter. No informed decision can be made, and that is true of all members of the council here, unless there is all the information. Of course, it is especially noted in this relationship, Mr. President, if you mention members of the Parliament, that much of the Parliament's members have not expressed themselves in this large matter, which shows that the public demands that members of Congress be well informed. [[The president calls.]] It is, as we know, a Senate that is important in a democracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u133	It would have been too much for a president to give a what. A senator's chance for this, but it's done kindly in the hope that this will, no doubt, be one little step toward completing this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u134	Mr. President. Because we have here a representative of the Independence Party, huh? paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, in the gym, I'd like to ask you a question. At the beginning of my speech, I'm going to take that liberty as soon as I ask the President to present the question to the secretary of state, of the information published by the State Department on his website. The album was updated on April 1, 2018, so the data are new, for the context of the objects, i.e. what is called questions and answers on the third EU energy pack. It's on the industrial and commercial website. Now I want to pray. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason, who has directed the search for warnings, also observe because of the problem. There's a senator in the hall. Here is a cake that turns to the legal instructions, as they are called in this summary. The summary should be made: ◯ Is the legal company of Iceland's legal company on the induction of the third energy package in accordance with EU understanding? That's the chapter I'm referring to. This section contains eight points. The eighth one, by permission of the President, is: Iceland's special status and the core premise will also be sullied on the EEA joint committee. This common understanding of Iceland and the EU will be referred to in that article. For the first time, I must ask a certain senator to respond. I wish that Karl Gauti Hjaltason came up here in counter-representation to inform me if in all his lawsuits he saw a trace or tied in of this publication of the joint EEA committee. I don't remember the fact that this point has been presented with the evidence, whether it was a matter of Congress or the laws of the Industrial Minister. If I've misunderstood, I apologize. But it would be only for strengthening the discussion, if you were to point out where this publication of the joint EEA committee is, how it is put down, and so forth, because it must be significant in the context that the history of the models in this matter is a sad story. It would be of particular interest, in view of the limited information of these manufacturers have had on the alert, that here was a document specifically specified on April 1 of the history of the head of the Ministry of Industrial and Business Review, and no one knows that I think, has seen it. I want to reiterate, with the permission of the President: Iceland's special status and the basic premise, to refer to the alleged warnings -- at the same time, a book-registered to the joint EEA committee. We must be allowed to request that this publication be submitted to a prospective State Department of State, I believe it is a proper guide for this information, although it is presented here by the Ministry of Industrial Affairs. But I'm going to make this work in my speech. Time is running away from me. I'm coming to the points in the next talk that I was going to make up for. I'm waiting for the highest. The President in part informs us about where this publication of the European Commission can be found, because it may help to explain the picture or to emphasize its inexplicability. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u135	Mr. President. The broad spears, they became Þorbjörn as Atli Ásmundarson, when he was run through by the other side of the shoulder, or so recorded in Grettis. And I'll be much like this news, because there's always something new going on. A senator came in, I guess there's some transfer into the Ministry, where there's plenty of room to explain the warning we've been looking for, and there's a new story. I haven't read it myself, but it sounds like it. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason, whom I thank for the talk, brings in new information, directly from the Ministry, burnings, and new ones. If I heard correctly what I heard. A senator was talking about plans for the so - called common understanding that has often been discussed as making statements, that it is a common understanding that Iceland was an island, a common understanding that there is no sea cable. This has been maligned in Europe, both in the EFTA countries and in the European countries, and in the energy manager and others. Now this story is coming, and I was going to ask you why. Is it clear to a member of the Parliament that I believe that this particular situation in Iceland is expected to be sued by a book for the joint EEA committee, whether it is correct to understand that this is the new premium as presented here?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u136	A respectable president. It's not easy to tell us what the meaning was in this case at the Ministry on April 1, but I have received the information that the State Department put in a memo on it. But it should be noted again, if this particular situation was prescribed by a draft of the joint EEA committee, why in the world no member of the federal Parliaments or the State Department of State Affairs seems to have set this up as part of the warning frame that will be used in the case. Everything seems to indicate that this is because the members of the council are not in the utmost way informed where they can find the warning and so forth. I'm going to take the time to examine the statement first in confidence, but it seems that since then it has been made public and has not been made, I think I've been listed here in all the discussions on this subject, the time they've been living, which in effect underscores the indistinguishment of the warnings. This does not appear to be in the evidence, but I will consider more closely whether it was shown by a foreign committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u137	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason for the answer. I can't help but agree with what. A senator's need for further consideration, and the first report of this is unclear. I agree with what. A senator when he says that this is strange, and of course he is amazed if he is. The members of the government have been unable to inform this earlier in the discussion. We've been in this conversation for quite a while, but new information is still coming up, brand new information. At first glance, this seems to be something new about the case, but as he read earlier, if I took it right away, it's some kind of plan that Iceland's speciality will be trialed in a special accounting for the joint EEA committee. If it is correctly understood, which I do not know at this point at this stage, this is yet another part of the puzzle that the way for the joint EEA Committee is protected by an understanding of Iceland's special status and that it should be a clear way to meet with the same committee as a vomited release. If this publication becomes reality, of course, what value it has to be for some kind of commitment to Iceland when implementing a Regulation in Iceland, whether it has to be valid or effective, it needs to be discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u138	A respectable president. Now I have between the answers such as just a chance to look loosely in the Commission declaration for the case since, in May 2017, that it does not seem to be an explanation for this future advance. We need to examine today what is up and down on it. But first of all, it's just how surprised you are that the reason for the discussion is no better than this. It seems, though, that some song was set together. I'm going to look at what it is, and I'm surprised it didn't make more of it if there's any grip in it that you're going to take time to look at. It may well be that the change in this is similar to the common understanding that was presented in two news reports on the Homepage of the Ministry of State, on the other hand, the common understanding of the EFTA and the same common understanding. Secretary of State and the Department of Energy, which at the moment I cannot remember what is called, but the Spanish Excellency that has been mentioned so often in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u139	President. I thank the senator for his talk, away from the point of view of what is contained in that statement that was there published, or this book that was cited there. I think it has something to do with a statement that was then committed to a confidentiality by the State Department and then published the following day. I don't quite remember, though. It all mixes up. But from now on, we are faced with the fact that we have knowledge, well, not knowing, we can say that new truths have come out in this case or new evidence that may be at first that this fourth energy package that we call so is revealed. It is determined that our right to guard is of no value or of no relevance, e.g. For example, privates who want to settle this on their own, park their cables, for example, or have to negotiate with. We also know that this transpiration project in Britain is on its way, i.e. They're interested there. So it's normal to ask, so I ask. A senator would not agree to review this bigger picture we have in front of us, and we have not had any answers, i.e. what the overall effect will be when we're done, i.e. if we produce an energy package of three and four together, e.g. On a administrative subject. Only that should be enough for us to agree, senators, to investigate the matter further. Do not speed it up as it seems will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u140	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson answer. I think it's safe to say that all moderation and rationality are inclined to give the council and its committees more time to review the matter. Likely, only by two adjustments, the matter will be taken off schedule now, allowing other matters to be done, and work for a few days. There is plenty of time in this regard. As far as I know, financial policy will not be updated even for financial review. If I know the principle, the financial Council has a week to give a review, although it may well be that they have been progressively enlightened and therefore may need less time. But there is time. That's my point. It is time to keep working on this by allowing other things to happen. In my opinion, the wise thing is to take the matter off in order to work through the summer and seek the best way, answer the questions that have come up, and try to make the most of the concerns involved, then settle the matter in the autumn. I am confident that it will be possible to frame the matter in such a way that everyone would trust to go to that work through the summer and have the case ready in the fall when a council meets again. I think it would be the most reasonable thing in these matters. Other things smell more stubborn than other things.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u141	President. I appreciate the answer. What we know about a pack of four is derived from the European Union website and some are listed, the main thing about this new fourth energy package, for example. Talk about the efficiency of buildings. The firms of the industry refer to their reviews so that this need to be examined specifically. But that package also contains a chapter called simply renewable energy. I haven't had a chance to study him in particular. But just the name tells me that it's interesting for us Icelanders to try to look into what's going on there. What's in the fourth energy package on renewable energy? Is that what we need to put ourselves in and be concerned about? I'm saying this because it's a direct continuation of previous energy directives on packages introduced in Iceland. It's the big picture that matters. We have also seen in scholars who have discussed the Icelandic constitution, whether we have gone too far into the open, that we have been concerned that we have been putting together over the 25 years that the EEA Convention has been in force, we may have given up so much because we need to stay. Among other things, it plays into this debate about the change in constitution, etc. Is it not reasonable, then, that we now have a three - pack energy package and four open in front of us, or can we have them, to examine the overall effect, even if only the administrative factors?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u142	A respectable president. I think that would be a lot of things very sensible, although only for the point that is stated in a report on the fourth energy package after the approval of the Council of Ministers on the box in the middle of the last week. Then came the news - I have to admit that I have not had a chance to print through the regulations of the package as they are available - but in this report and in a summary of the elements of the fourth energy package, there was one particular point in my eyes and there was a plan to expand and strengthen the level of power of the ACER. And because these concerns about the administrative part disappear a little bit about that institution in one way or another, this EU plan is to expand and strengthen its authority and its roles, of course, to require the need for this to be reviewed before leaving the third energy package. It must only be considered a reasonable and reasonable approach to the point where the European Union, which puts things into place, says: We're going to add to, expand and strengthen this institution. It is the main source of concern here at home regarding the above - mentioned package, and there is nothing else in the situation but looking at it together and in general.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u143	Mr. President. I took my last talk to the geologists. I had reviewed the series of activations in the country that were eight or nine. Eight are still employed, one very small but a few larger. The largest was Hellishe activation installed in 303 MW, and the second largest were Nesjagur, which is also a recent activation of 120 MW. The third, Smokejanes activation, is 100 MW, and the fourth, the largest and most recent, is the Theistaremin activation, which has now developed power up to 90 MW. We are moving forward in the modern, new energy generation to produce electricity, which began almost at about the time that power activation was started in the 1970s. I also noted that the total power of all these biotainers to electricity production has grown rapidly during this period, with 35 MW 1979 that is no longer available. Twenty years ago, the power was installed in 170 MW, but it is now 753 MW. So the rapid growth of the hydropower activation of the earth's heat to produce electricity has been staggering in time. Now the electricity industry from these geothermal activations is about 27% of electricity production in the country, almost one third, and increasing. I don't know what the future is about. Some have thought that this, visually or otherwise, would be a major environmental impact, asking whether it can be activated indefinitely. I think there's quite a bit left in this relationship. But I also think there's a lot of potential, such as. for deep-tempered diseases. Like what? paritaprevir Þórarinsson's farms in an antiquated position earlier tonight will be quite potentials that are largely unsearched, but research is being carried out and have lasted quite a long time here. We've been very close. Both deep - seated organisms have advantages other than traditional geochemists but also have unfathomable defects that may be involved in their processing. Regarding electricity production, there is no name, and it must not be forgotten that the earth has also been used in this country for a very long time to fan the houses of the people of the land. It is not long ago that homes were usually fueled with oil, but today the earth is used to swallow 89% of all the houses in Iceland, which are truly amazingly effective in amazing times. The capital area was all connected to the thermal system, but before many houses in some neighborhoods were swallowed with oil. So there has been a tremendous improvement. When I talk about 89% of all the housing, I mean the volume of housing, not the number. By the middle of the last century, only 22% of the earth's quality was fueled with oil, so that area has changed completely. Oil use has also declined, it was 2.5% in 1990, but is now 0.2%. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u144	President. I thank the senator for his speech. He covered the story well last night and the importance of the resources, especially the heat of the earth. So it is reasonable to ask the senator if he feels normal that we are here with a pack of energy of three, and we have a pack of energy almost in front of us, to be initiating the EU energy policy instead of working on Iceland's energy policy, the long-term energy policy of Iceland, which includes if you are looking at the use of aquifers, the potential for increased activations, or the installed extra power in existing sources, etc. We've been calling in advance that several questions are answered on the part of the followers of this case, including the question of whether to agree with what the attorney Eyjólfur's annual Ármannsson is saying, in which he specifically warns that this matter is being approved here without the possibility of an energy policy for Iceland. Is it not true, especially in the light of history, that since we have achieved so much success in building sustainable renewable energy, that we should take our course before starting a Community policy on the other side of the sea? It's a priority for me to think about.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u145	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for that question. He's asking about energy policy not only about European energy policy but also about energy policy for Iceland. I agree with what. A senator is amazed when we make as much dramatic decisions as the policy is to do by implementing the EU energy directive, which is the third one, and sitting here without energy policy. It's strange, of course, because if you don't know where you're going, maybe it doesn't matter which way you choose because you only land somewhere. Goals need to be set. They have to lay their cards on the table, figure out where they want to go to make the right decisions. We are facing a very energy-rich country. Here's the dropwaters. During the last century, we have activated them extensively. We have a geologist, and I've gone over it. We benefit from it. We've enjoyed it for the house warming. We've been enjoying it for electricity. I mentioned earlier about deep fevers that could bring us even greater energy in the near future. Efforts and tests are being carried out. We also have windlike forces that have not been used. We are here with the tide energy that many can see can bring us considerable energy in the near future. And because I lived in the Western Islands for a long time, I'm telling you, we're here with an unbidden wave of energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u146	President. I thank the senator for that answer. Yeah, there are, I don't say inexhaustible, but there are a lot of possibilities for using the resources and nature in Iceland. Hv. A senator listed some possibilities. I don't know better than that we in itself have no particular long-term policy regarding all the possibilities. There's a senator here. At the same time, however, we are initiating the existing EU Energy Agency. Part of it is these packages that have been introduced here. In a pack of four energy - I'll take it out, OK? A senator and a respectable president, that I have not been able to learn all about it - are two points named. It is an energy efficient structure, and then there is something called renewable energy. Has a what? A senator was able to examine these aspects of a four - pack energy package? What is the section on renewable energy? What do we see in the section on the efficiency of buildings? Is there anything that matters about, e.g. Use, management, structure, disposition, etc. on any source of energy or energy available. A senator mentioned here? Is it not worth staying and finding out what that means? I think it is a bit of a responsibility for the followers of this matter to intend to supply a pack of three energy when they know that it is a prelude to what should come, without having it as clean as possible today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u147	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for such speculation. Yeah, I'll share worry with you. A senator of energy policy, or lack of energy policy in this country, as he came to be. I, along with other members of the council, have repeatedly called for it to officials and the highest. Ministers on how it is possible that there has not been a complete or collective work for harnessing wind power because humans are increasingly interested in harnessing it. When there are several mills up, both private and national, on the Sea of Burgundy, I think that's my name. There are two windmills, each with a power installed to 2 MW, I think. So people are very interested in this. There's plenty of wind here, as we'll often be warning you if we leave the house. There's energy policy to be set up for Iceland. One part of that policy is where we're headed for harnessing wind power. Will we just let it go and allow it to be built up just wherever they please their country or if they have access or possession on land? Or are we going to make some frame around it so that we are not suddenly in the future that it is on every side of the country? There's got to be a policy. There are many other things that need to be guided. What are we going to activate? Are we going to go into deep water? What's the policy there?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u148	Mr. President. Thank you. The public speaker and the chart on the history of the geologists. This is very informative and important input into the discussion. What's interesting to me in this regard is these deep sites, like I just came in here and I'm going to get in more now. I think they actually serve just one purpose, i.e. to enter the energy industry, which is intended for export. We'll see that if you go online there's a lot of news, like I've brought along in a speech chair, of such plans at home, e.g. energy companies such as HD Energy, attack into deep layers. It is very interesting to consider e.g. One story that appeared in Reuters. There are up to 100 million dollars jobs in Iceland. Then it is interesting that in the relatively recent article, she is only less than two years old, it says that this project - if I fully translate it from English text - is designed to enable the company to export energy. So it continues, that this can bring energy to British homes, and as many as 1.6 million homes in Britain would benefit from this. [[The president calls.]] Can't be estimated as such. A senator, that this is the ide of the deepwaters, of energy export? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u149	Mr. President. Yes, I share such suspicion. Because I've had him answer earlier in the night, I looked this up and covered a few pages of material about deeps. It seems to me that the expectations of an area that we know on Hellishi, Smokeynes, and the Crevices could give up up up to ten times more energy than the traditional high - temperature area would be given if we had this routine use in the region as we know of Hellishi. We were talking about an earlier date when nearly one third of all the electricity in Iceland has been used by a geotherm. Today, nearly one third of the earth's camera model is talking about an enormous amount, an enormous possibility. But it cannot be overlooked. A senator pointed out, at least last year's answer earlier tonight, that it is also a risk. It seems to me that so - called stimulus, which sometimes needs to be used for such deep holes, which are actually in the field of study and are not too far away, follows certain effects that could be undesirable. I'll find out in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u150	Mr. President. Yes, here is a project that, of course, is very interesting, and it shows up in the news I've been looking at in these foreign media, the press, that there are many people involved, many foreign parties coming up on this business with financing and research teams, and so on. Of course, this project is an interesting one and probably a part of it. But if you suspect that this is the primary part of the program because you want to get something back from your investment, which is a big deal on this project, that investment comes back if you sell it abroad. And it just says here, as I mentioned, the goal is to sell the energy to the United Kingdom. However, it is the environmental impact that is vital in this regard. Remember, this place is drilling up to five miles [5 km] in the ground. And you wonder, " Can this trigger some kind of matches? ' How deep is the fire? It's natural research. In that respect, this is a risk project that, if it is bad, could cause damage to the existing energy sector, such as ... onSmoneynes. I want to hear from what. A senator on the environmental impact and the risk. Is it not reasonable that this is one of the things to be discussed here because it all comes with the implementation of this directive, the exporting of energy? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u151	Mr. President. Thank you for the question. This is very interesting. I think I'm going to be forced to make this better in my next speech about the Deep Throat project. But I want to tell you what. I think the deepest holes we've ever drilled are more than 4,600 metres. But, hey. A senator mentioned a fire breakdown. He is correct in saying that when the first deep - seated hole was fought at the Cruces of 2009, people were going further, perhaps not a deep - seated hole in the traditional sense of that word, but they were about to descend into a fire. I don't think that led to any match of fire that time, but the hole was found at a temperature of 450 ° C, which at that time was a global record, but I don't know if it still stands. But these holes have sometimes had such chemical combinations, i.e. that water or vapor has been made up so that it has not been able to be processed because the materials are very clear and fragile for all equipment. However, people have thought of how to deal with it by pumping down water and then working out nearby pits of heat, which is formed if the rocks are leaked enough. If they're not, they've thought of making them leaks, hopefully with some kind of explosion. This has considerable environmental impact, and that's what we need energy policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u152	Mr. President. This is a very interesting discussion of deep development and their impact on existing environment and energy development, not to mention the plans to export energy through the agreed strategy, to implement a three-way directive about the European Union's joint energy market. In this speech, I want to continue, with the release of electrical agreements on the industry and the news yesterday that land activation has reached a significant increase in prices to Elkem on the GDP. These have pleased certain rulers, and have reported them on their pages of money, as they say. I think it's untimely to celebrate in this way because I think there has to be a compromise in these chemicals, to increase the electrical price not so much that it can threaten the management security or management of an enterprise. I mention, for example. The fluffs of their time, when they repeatedly tried to reach contracts with land induction, were unsuccessful. Because they were interested in replacing fossil fuels, they were motivated by oil, and therefore they wanted to switch to electricity. Sad to say, the more efficient it was to drive the floods with oil instead of electricity, and there are some extraordinary reports in our country that they have excess energy in the system and the environmental energy sources that are already at the time of electricity. This is an example of what I would like to call stiff land reactivation that can lead us into trouble, as it were. We know in the natural world that garden farmers have repeatedly called for a more favorable electrical price, unfortunately for very faint ears, many of which are completely incomprehensible. Gardeners produce the excellent product of Icelandic vegetables and should, of course, support that production with all available resources. It's in everyone's best interests. These are very healthy products, we see job creations, and then the natural process of carbon dioxide is reduced by a variety of mechanisms. It is necessary to import vegetables from abroad, a national company, a land induction, which has not achieved the advantage of improving this important sector. One asks where the government already lies in these matters, such as in gardening farmers, and what is the tenant policy of land activation. You also ask, in view of reports of a marked increase in electrical prices to Elkem, a company that has had difficulties: Is national activation threatening the security of thousands of workers in energy - consuming industry? I say, Mr. President, we of the Central Party are, of course, involved in revising the electronic agreements. It's just that there's a way that makes both parties feel comfortable because it's a huge national interest that the activities of these companies continue. But I see, Mr. President, that I can't finish this coverage so I wish to be put back on the rosary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u153	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. He was particularly concerned with the effects of this approved package and the price to be expected on the next day of energy. This increase is much more likely to occur where the European Union's main policy depends on the coordination of energy prices and, likewise, the aim of single action is a very important underlying goal in the European Union. Hv. A senator referred to the interests of several professions, called garden farmers. They have provided a review in which they are clearly praying for this energy package. He also mentioned the big business, which is a recent Norwegian report, kind of brand - new, considering electrical prices and influence on various occupations and employment and the interests of employees and companies. It describes a lot of anxiety, including of Norway's industry, energy-rich activities. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he has studied the report and if he can agree with the basic results I have made in such a short, brief case that might have taken place here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u154	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. For me, it is most important that we realize that there are interests that are of great importance to us. Certain members of Parliament have spoken of it, particularly those who want to go all the way and walk in the European Union, such as the Continental and Environment, that there is so much opportunity to sell this clean energy out of the country and that this project should be paid off by all means. The dream of these political parties is that we will walk all the way and be part of the European Union. It should be noted, then, that we probably get a good price for clean energy, no doubt a very good price, and a much higher price than at home. But what will become of today's employment opportunities and those companies, like in the big business, who are eager to get electricity at the price that makes these companies get a lot of money? I don't think they're thinking this all the way. Perhaps some politicians are not concerned that these companies will stop working, and many will lose their jobs. You think they're just going to sell the high energy prices to the European Union? Are politicians to assign them valuables to the country? Are we in that position? [[The president calls.]] Asking that question is worth the effort.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u155	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. The Norwegian report that I mentioned describes concern over the effects of the third energy package, as much as it has been discussed in that country, has the exact factors. A senator makes it a subject. The report suggests that a third energy package will bring a higher power price and that this higher electricity prices will turn competitively away from important employment in Norway. Energy - carrying activities are particularly mentioned. Hence, it is understandable that those who are involved in such a business in this country are deeply concerned and anxious about this trend. Well, maybe. A senator agreed with me that it would have been desirable that this case with all about the third energy package at the General Assembly would have followed the economic analysis of the consequences of the third national energy supply package, including electricity prices and the benefits of most economics, sectoral and other factors?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u156	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. Yes, I have surely spoken of that in connection with this case, a complete analysis of its impact on the economy, the nation's economy, electrical power prices to homes, etc. It is absolutely essential to install so - called stage photos. What if a cable is laid? And he'll come, it's just a matter of years when he's coming. I predict that over the next 12, 14, 15 years, there will be a cable. He's been prepared, as we know. All of this must be examined in that light. I think it's just a minimum requirement when there's such a big matter discussed at the council that there's some sort of diagnosis. We've called for that, e.g. In regard to financial programmes, the presentation of scenarios. What if there is a strong recession in the tourism service? How has this affected us? How does this affect the level of employment? How does this affect various aspects of the economy? These are normal practices in connection with the development of financial programmes, and if we put them in context of this work and discussion here with very important issues, it is perfectly normal, legitimate, and careful practice that there is some kind of analysis. I agree with that. There's a senator who is completely lacking in this discussion, which is unfortunate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u157	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator very much for his speech. He has discussed a number of talks on the possible increase in electrical prices and the possible increase in enterprises but also in households and has mentioned quite a number of facts in the history of his case in support of the company. I'd like to think about what was discussed just now in the context of so - called stage photos, whether there's no lack of them, and how this might affect the economy. We'll talk here about the basics of society so it would be good if they had been there. It is also worth remembering a word. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason when he said: "If you don't know where you're going, it doesn't really matter which way you choose. Perhaps it is the point that such scenes have not been developed. We don't have any energy policies, and there's a lot of industry under and a large company. I just want to ask you one specific question about the cry from the European Union for pure energy. We know that we have enough clean energy and that it is known to be lacking in Europe. How would only that one thing affect a company and a home in the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u158	Mr. President. Thank you. This important aspect of the discussion is made up of a member of the body, the impact on the homes of the country. It's naturally very peculiar, like whatnot. A senator rightly mentioned that we should be on this journey here and now without having national energy policies and without having examined the economic and economic effects of this system's induction on society. It's just that it has to say, as it is, that there's not really enough good work to do, and in fact, it's a good plan, because of course, we need to know what the effect will be. Thus, the induction of this energy package has been static and constantly held by the management forces. In this respect it is right for the management members to see that the main principle of this directive is activated by means of a cable. Government officials have said that it is the government's decision to lay it down. I think there's been evidence here in talks, and we've seen it both in the talks and in the literature of scholars that there are arguments that will not be held. We see that a cable is fully prepared, the news that such a cable is financed, so it is just a matter of years until it becomes reality, and then there will be no turning back. Then we will not have authority over these matters because we never applied for permanent release. That's what we've emphasized in our presentation of the Central Party. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u159	V.E.G. President. That's very right, and thank you for the answer. An appeal to the public for information and a presentation has been made about where we are headed. We saw the news on TV last night interviewing people who asked for further information. In effect, we have to agree with people who should place considerable emphasis on them. I can agree with the other thing as easily as possible. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's serf referred to the cable, it is true that there are arguments that will not be held. The other thing is, I think we're all aware that such a cable will be laid to the land, but it's important that it's on our terms, not on the basis of someone else or with other factors in mind but what's best for us, how we can protect the foundations, as I mentioned earlier. I'd like to ask a question here at the end: What is the cause, anyway. The senator, that there was not much presentation and that the matter was really to be put through the council without material discussion? I want to describe it this way, because we've learned a lot from speaking in this case and new information is being developed all the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u160	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I wondered, " Why aren't we picking up this information and going into this necessary analysis? ' It's in my mind a mystery. In my opinion, this case is being passed through without adequate discussion, without adequate investigation of the impact of the case. It is suspected that there is an external pressure here, expected from Norway, that those who are following this directive in Norway will stress that it will be agreed. Maybe they've been thinking over the years that it was just a formality to be accepted from Iceland. It is of interest in the opinion of Carl Baudenbacher, the head of the Department of State for particular work to provide their opinion on this matter and on the EEA Convention on the topic, that he presents a very special political explanation and an opinion that we are the kind of cognitions of Norway, that we do little in this contract, are fundamentally formal in bringing things into place to please the Norwegians. That's very strange to me, Mr. President, and it's worth discussing it further here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u161	A respectable president. First, I'd like to step in on what I came into my last speech, and I'd like to re-evaluate the Joint EEA Committee. It seems to me, based on the information I've received and have managed to collect myself at the time since I was last in a pentula, that this is to the core what was presented in a press release on the State Department's homepage, so it's to say that it's actually about the same thing. However, this brings attention to the information presented to the State Department, first through trust to Friday, May 10, which underscores the opinion presented in a report on the Office's Homepage. This has been read earlier, as it happened in the story, and I apologize for the slight discrepancies, but hopefully not material, in the translation. This is what was reported in the report on the European Union representative reading a statement at this common meeting. It says, with the permission of the president, and a loose translation follows: ▪ The EU is too much of the time-integrating process of the Common Regulatory process as a pre-condence to agree with the EFTA/EEC, and the EU/EMEA partner. This means, in particular, that the European Union warrants the rapid implementation of the third energy package in the entire EEA region to be extremely important because the introduction of the collective Regulation is essential for the unregulated trade between the EEA countries already linked by transporting electricity transport across borders and in such companies today. This is in effect comparable to the paragraph that raised a considerable discussion here from the State Department's press release a few days ago at the Senate Hall and puts it back on the table for the arrival of the Norwegians. It has been claimed that skeptics of the induction of this principle are somehow controlled or supported financially or otherwise from Norway. In view of the findings that have already occurred between the Icelandic Minister and Norwegian Ministers, all evidence suggests is that the Norwegian pressure, if present, is in all places other than the findings of the third energy pack producers have held, he is on the Minister of Ministers where Norway's government has been able to impose pressure on the European government with the European Union's support in view of the surmountment and religion was relieved after the matter had been first committed in the confidence of a foreign committee. On Friday, May 10 p.m., the faith was lifted. 15th It was a good word in the press release, a little hidden, but I think it's important that we pick this up on the table, that the pressure seems to be there, and let's just approach it the way it really is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u162	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason very much for this information. I would like to go deeper into them and give some thought to the political bitch of Norway. As we have seen, the right European category is going to take the Ministry of Presidency in Norway, thereby giving a specific line, where to head in that country. It is quite remarkable to learn that this is a so - called Minister who has even made decisions with the support of the European Union, even though this is the case, and thus put pressure on all this rule through quickly and rapidly. No wonder Norway is upset, since we know it's at least One political party, and then the largest labor movement there is strongly opposed to these purposes and has even, if I have taken it right away, sent letters to the country to stress that we must pause. What I'm doing in particular is whether the Senator can go a little deeper into the definition of what is going on with the Norwegians, and each Minister will say, if it really is such a thing as a muleing the Minister of England to take this journey and there's something unsaid.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u163	A respectable president. It is difficult to look into and find out what is not said in these matters. We are in such an environment that at times we may have to try to read between the lines. However, the scale of the information presented to the State Department suggests that the European Union and the Norwegian government place tremendous emphasis on its completion. This then puts the matter in the context of what, of course, is that in the fall of September, it will be handled in a court of government in Norway, where it will determine whether the induction has been performed in a prerequisite way in relation to the Constitution. The Norwegians, as we know, made one eight advance notice of the induction process and were essential to getting the case through the Norwegian Council. So far it seems that nothing was done with them in advance. Many of these have not yet been tested, but in terms of those who have been put to the test and those who fail to write letters, no confirmation has been made from the European Union for 14 months. If we consider this overall, that Norway's government seems to be focusing on this, including the European Union, then the European Union does not respond to the existing references, we all suggest that it is wise to lean back and examine the big picture and postpone this work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u164	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much. That's probably right. We don't have enough information to figure out what's said between the lines, just what we just got. It's clear that Norway wants this to end, that we put a full weight in loading a pack of three in this country, because if it passes through at the best of times, there is some potential effect because of the premium of September 23. I give myself that there must be an impact that matters. It is remarkable that eight warnings and no responses have been made to them, and no reactions have been made, despite the fact that according to our information, some responses have been made. This is one of the most remarkable places in which we are, if we delay the induction of a pack of three energy, it'll have some effect in Norway and we'll see if we can allow ourselves to say so. I'd like to ask you what. A senator to what is going on in the United Kingdom on Bgreit. We know that it matters when we are discussing what is going on in Britain and Bfenit and how it would look here if Britain went out of the European Union, if it had any effect on this country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u165	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagle Daughter for the counter-sponsored. I have to admit that I have not identified any particular effect of British discharge from the European Union on the possible state of affairs involving the introduction of the third energy package in Iceland. There's just one more point in the Pulyia that prepares the wisdom of postponing the case for a while, giving the council and the managers the opportunity to dig into such material as, for example. What effect, if any, the British exit from the European Union has on Iceland's situation in all of this. Of course, it's been that all speculations of the songing of a sea cable from Iceland, I think it's safe to say, in all principle, have been that a string would come to a country somewhere in Britain. So I think that diagnosis needs to take place before we can do something reasonable with this matter done. However, the reaction is the same as that point, whether it is the fourth energy package or the declaration that people are now ready for a full-scale sea cable project, no new issue seems to be available in this case as any representative of those who are interested in the induction feel that there is a reason to consider further.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u166	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I was very interested in his reviewing possible pressure from Norway, which seems to be obvious, that we accept this induction. As a result, you begin to look into Carl Baudenbacher's opinions, which worked for the minister of foreign affairs and the State Department of State, as a team on this matter. If I cut down on this opinion, he says, by permission of the President, that the opinion was always there in Norway that the EEA deal should be interpreted on the basis of a two- side deal between the Norwegian and the European Union, where Iceland and Liechtenstein were in a role of a secondary role. I think it's a very remarkable statement made by the layman, and there he is on a political field that I think is supposed to be turned off by this source of opinion. He's supposed to cross the legal factor first, I'd count. But what I wanted to ask you is why. A senator: How does he feel about the declaration of this source of opinion, that we have a secondary role? [[The president calls.]] This may come as an crystal when the Norwegians expect us to accept this in no time, with no discussion at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u167	A respectable president. The sun is about to hit the clock, but it doesn't try it right away. Thank you. A senator resists. These views, which appear to be just and right after a certain representative of the Norwegian people, are made to reflect some sort of mania. I haven't even looked at this statement myself. I've heard it echoed. But if this is the position of a party with the dominant position in the north, you will understand if we agree to merely get in the way of the continued interests of the Norwegians alone. In cooperation like this, you have to meet. Of course, there will always be some extreme difference, as we see in the international interaction we are involved in, but as for the approach that we are some kind of passenger, in English, some kind of an English form, sometimes called, I have to admit that I'm not good at it. I hope this is a temporary attitude based on some irritation we haven't caused.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u168	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I have to say, I'm amazed at the statements of these excellent strategists. He ventured out there on a political field, which is that mine knows very dangerous and very special. I don't remember seeing it in international partnerships saying that one nation, which is valid for a contract such as the EEA Convention, has a secondary role in a larger and larger nation. I would have thought everyone was there on equal terms. Then Carl Baudenbacher adds, in his opinion, by permission of the President, that Iceland is obliged to give Norway and Liechtenstein loyalty to the EEA community. This is my very specific presentation, however, but it supports the course of time. A senator rightly mentioned that we are under pressure from Norway. It's not good luck to be in charge of my knowledge, Mr. President, that we're under some kind of pressure. It's not normal communication between friends, it's set in my mind what we should do about it. I believe we should respond to these statements in some way and verify them. I think that would just be necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u169	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For answer the Birgir of Þórarinsson. I have to admit that I'm still in that place that I hope that this is some misunderstanding, that this attitude has not been made, but that someone else, but it has come back to translation or forwarding. This is due to a number of reasons for long and good communication if it is real that the Norwegians look at Iceland and Liechtenstein's presence in this cooperation in the way that it describes, i.e. If you are to be trusted as a big brother, you have to earn it by acting like a big brother. The only way to have a decisive position, in many ways, in such cooperation, is not to take advantage of the potential resources. If there are any indications that the Norwegian view is somehow changing, that would be very sad and would be surprising. I'm just going to reiterate what I said in my previous answer, I'm going to allow myself for a time to hope that this is based on some misunderstanding, misinjury, or simply on the personal viewpoint of a person who is not reflected in the political stand of the Norwegian government against the Icelandic government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u170	Mr. President. There is nothing lacking in our having a major issue in this matter. That's a very big deal we're dealing with. The matter involves the potential conflict with a constitution, the case attracts our position in European cooperation and how we use ourselves in that field and in what way we can protect our interests and the matter of custody of the people of the important energy resources of the country. I would like to draw attention to an article that appeared on the Web site of a television station run in the capital called Ring Road. This article appeared yesterday, May 28, and is the author of Pálsson's former prime minister, and president of the Independence Party. This points to the currents that he believes are in the case that there is a reason to pay no attention, Mr. President. The article bears the title: Just put the full involvement back on the program. The writer, The Þorsteinn of Pálsson, links this discussion about the potential energy package in Iceland to the European Union as discussed here further. By permission of a president, if I may quote the article of Pálsson's son Þorsteinn, he has it on a beautiful sentence: 'The Father rules the field.' He goes on to say, with President's permission: ▪ They are now creating sound evidence to put the question of a full involvement in the European Union back on schedule. A conversation over the third energy package has opened the door for this case. This is what Þorsteinn's son the Pálsson says. He goes on to explain this, and with the permission of a president, I'm going to continue witnessing in Þorsteinn: The morning newspaper has been unsatisfactory in the battle against the third energy package. As a result, the Independence Party is split into two companies. But the root cause of this opposition seems to be that the editors see better than many others that at the same time and that they accept the princely rule in this matter, they are, in effect, acknowledging the prince's position on which full involvement in the European Union is built. Mr. President. It is in this way that the writer, Þorsteinn of Prime Minister Pálsson, connects the discussion of the third energy package with the possibility of a full involvement in the European Union. I'm still going to refer to Pálsson's son Þorsteinn's article. He says, with President's permission: This means that as soon as men draw out the evidence for Iceland's involvement in the internal market of the European Union and the induction of its energy policy, the princehood becomes seriously weakened against the full involvement. Opinions about full involvement are more involved in technical opinions. Þorsteinn's Pálsson tombstone says: The debate on full involvement is now much more open. It is important that Europeans make use of this opening. Mr President, do I allow myself to ask, is it so that under the leadership of the left green, involved with an independent party and a forwarding party are taking a significant step toward full involvement in the European Union?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u171	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson of Ish steed for his speech. It is of interest that the article he referred to in his talk by the Þorsteinn Pálsson, who sees that circumstances have begun in order to describe now an application or entry in the EU in a new light, in view of the circumstances that exist today in this pack of three languages, and technically there is a possibility. Is there a bit of a party in the situation for now, we can say at the moment, i.e. The question asked by the speaker whether classes of the current government were then ready to look at the possibility where none of these classes have shown interest in entry into the EU to date. A lot of things have changed in recent years. So I'd like to ask the senator the same question that he threw into the kiss a few minutes ago: Can the senator see that it might be so that we would consider the possibility, i.e. Iceland's government, applying for reinstatement in the EU?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u172	Mr. President. Well, the question is at least In view of the diagnosis of the Þorsteinn of Pálsson, Thorstein was considered. After giving up political involvement, Pálsson has given a great deal of publicity about national affairs, a number of articles written, was editor of a newspaper for years, and sometimes literature, has appeared to me to be an article on the Web site of this television station, Ring Road. He is well - known in his analyses and, of course, has great knowledge and experience. I'd like to give a little more attention to one of his fists in order to give the best answers. Senator. He even talks about it. regarding the opposition of the editors of the Morning newspaper - he says of them, by permission of a president: ▪ Their attitude toward full - time membership is sincere, so they do not want to support any situation that might open up to it. He says, as I quoted earlier: The debate on full involvement is now much more open. It is important that Europeans make use of this opening. He is, in effect, saying, if you can conclude that the government under the leadership of the left green and with the participation of an independent party and a forwarding party is giving Europeans, full - time members, a very special opportunity to pursue it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u173	V.E.G. President. You see, I thank the senator for the answer and the speculation about the situation. It has been said of the introduction from the EU through the EEA Convention that we are always moving - or many people claim that we are getting closer in a calm way into the EU, but it's just some people's opinions in town. Sometimes you can agree with that. It is then news to me in case the weather so high that people should start thinking this situation seriously in view of the fact that the government is being put together today. Þorsteinn Pálsson chairman of the Independence Party and prime minister of the time, a present member of the woodland, is a clear example of those who have left the Independence Party, including those who have walked from the independent party. Because of their opinion that we should walk in the EU. So I feel that this is yet another incident in the debate on the energy package three issues that are being followed by people who have a strong political attitude and have a clear view of their affairs, now that this debate has developed and developed over the past few days and weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u174	Mr. President. I believe there is good reason to draw attention to the fact that a person who knows as well in the inner circle of Icelandic politics as the Þorsteinn of Pálsson would feel that such a heavy game is being played on this level, as he seems to expect. I have to admit that after several times in the debate which democratic authority to form the administrative groups have to put into practice this third pack of energy - this is a case that was not mentioned in the campaign and that they were not able to state that they presented the matter and said they would apply it to them and that they would follow it on that basis. Similarly, if it is so that the Þorsteinn of Pálsson was justified in creating new opportunities for the Europeans to use their language, they, as the Þorsteinn son of Pálsson says, make use of this opening, you wonder whether the left green, independent party and forward have the democratic authority of their voters to stand to the matter that we are closer to it than ever, perhaps more than ever, to become members of the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u175	Mr. President. It was an interesting speech. A senator moved here. The Þorsteinn of Pálsson's son likely knows most about people in the dark of the Independence Party. But the question is. A senator, whether these three categories, led by the left green, were moving Iceland closer to the European Union than ever before, are not completely out of control. It would be a carpet for the first time that left greens led such a expedition across the hall of the election. Of course, you can expect everything in this subject. And I can't say that it would be very surprising, because all the arrangements for the matter we've been discussing here recently are not in any way consistent with what was proposed by the three categories now making the government in the last election. They did not offer, nor did any of them, on the sign that they were going to introduce here the third EU energy package, nor did they announce that they would bring Iceland closer to the European Union in its acute and long years. But of course, my Pálsson are to be listened to, and that is why I find it very interesting. A senator should present this case here. I'd like to get him to come here to what I said earlier about being trollied for the first time that left green led such a course to the scapegoat of what they announced before the election. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u176	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think I understand in his language that he may even know how to speak. to bear in mind General elections in 2009, where there have been some reviews that, on the part of the leadings of the greens at that time, I think it is safe to say, shortly before elections, that the party would be applying for membership in the European Union, but took place in the government of two categories. After these elections, the government was formed by the cooperation of the left movement, the green supply and the United States, who, in fact, had the lead in government. That government proposed a full involvement in the European Union. I suppose that's what it is. A senator has in mind, and many have fresh memories. A discussion of participation in the European Union helps me to understand very well at a time in which we see a nation that came to the conclusion of national law that it does not wish to be involved in this cooperation anymore. This clearly shows that it seems that everything is done on the part of those in charge of this alliance to make their way out as hard and harder. It is unlikely to remember, in fact, that they played a role in ending the political life of a British prime minister during the week.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u177	That's right, Mr. President. This innuendo of Pálsson's son Þorsteinn, and the suggestion he brings, is not meant to cause you to stumble heavily because of it, after you see that left greens have taken an amazing U-turn in their attitude on energy issues and are now responsible for the market of the energy system in Iceland. It's not like you're supposed to surprise anything anymore. Of course, it would have been most honest for both them and other government groups to present them at the time before the last election that their minds were set for that purpose. They did not. And that's why there's no wonder when they've already told A that they want to say B. That's why you're amazed to find out my name, Pálsson's son. former senator, not that much. But I would have liked to hear from what. A senator of what he's found, and he's found of this unscrupulous U-turn left greens who are now taking the lead in the market of national energy resources into the future. Well, we've been wondering a little bit why it could spell. Maybe there's an additional point on this subject. But I wanted to pray. A senator going over it a little why he thinks this U-mint green has happened.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u178	Mr. President. I have to admit that I have not studied the hearts and kidneys of the left green so that I can pass any judgment on this subject, but I can look over the story and let it surprise me that a group that cannot help but be the direct successor of the Allied Association and before the Social Party, should be in the first position to play a role, in the leadership of a government that works for the market of energy, across the community of the country's covenant that the energy companies are on national property. That this same class is in charge of a procedure that means judgment as sharp as the Þorsteinn of Paul Pálsson, to the point of taking the full responsibility of the European Union. It is the peculiar paradox in politics, Mr President, and fate can be gray at times. It is only to see that this is the destiny of the UN and the Social Party successors to perform in this way. It's a very peculiar thing to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u179	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's talk, and now he intends to complete my discussion of electrical agreements with the industry and the relationship to the third energy package of these materials because the third energy package, this Directive No. 3 of the European Union's electronics, the common market, affects electricity contracts in the industry. We saw that, as I traced to the previous speech, this week drew on the subject of the announcement that they had reached contracts with Elkem of the Grunquents, where there had become a significant rise in electricity to the company and had been trying for a long time to reach contracts with the Continent. You wonder, " What is the policy of Legislation in that subject? ' If the conclusion is to raise all these electronic agreements, it's probably only natural that they are free of us trying to increase prices, but it must be careful and try to reach an agreement where both parties are reasonably happy because of the fact that this situation, as mentioned earlier, may arise, that these corporations, aluminium, such as Elkem, Insal, Alcoa, cannot see their benefit anymore in being here because of electronic prices, which put thousands of jobs at risk. It has to be said at the moment. It appears that these actions or policies of national activation are a measure of threat to jobs and the livelihood of thousands of workers in energy-efficient industry by requiring these companies for electrical prices that could subtract from them to further development and sectoral development in the country. It is of interest, then, if you have spent a large amount of money studying the pros and cons of the sea cables when you can then weigh the energy - consuming industry through massive increases in electrical prices and then say that you have to get an aerosol cord because there is so much excess in the system. This is a bit ironic, Mr. President, but this could be the reality of the moment. No one's talking about giving the electricity for this energy-rich industry, not at all, but it's not that we're watching the arrival of land activation. It is the quality and financial standing of the Conspiracy, which we welcome, of course. These are the speculations I have made in one of three talks, and I'm going to complete my discussion on this subject for the time being. These materials must simply be handled with care, and these are directly linked to this energy package. They're opening a route, setting up all the prepping work for the anticipated cable we've been receiving news about this week that is far along with financing and so on. The key thing to my mind is that when it comes to dealing with the power industry, we don't get over it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u180	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The one before the speech is Þórarinsson's son. As mentioned in the Senate speech, he has been talking, of course, about the energy prices to consumers and the changes in electrical prices after the previous energy package, one or two, and then waved over here to prove it. The senator now mentioned in his speech that national activation has reached an electrical agreement with Elkem on the Gestartangga with a new electronic agreement that included, after I understood, speculation about the changed course of Landing in that direction or preparation for it. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether there has been any change in nuclear energy policy, or is this some kind of premise that it will change when and if the energy package is approved? There has been much talk of rising energy prices in the wake of this contract. But in contrast, the cost of monitoring and services and other factors that, of course, fall on the electronic account as such, will be higher, of course. The question is, Is the senator talking about the change or that this is a prelude?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u181	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I think that's going to be a certain change of direction, and even a few days before the power of the electricity growth to the big industry is going to be under a lot of pressure. Statements have been made, including From the management forces, this will strengthen our position against the executives. Then it must be the same party, i.e. The executives who say so will see to it that the electricity can be sold abroad at a much higher price. Then, when they claim that the third energy package is of no importance, it is a little bit of twin skin during the administration of directors. It matters, i.e. Its induction is important because it lays the basis for what the electricity companies provide, i.e. To sell the electricity abroad. I think those contracts that have taken a long time to get to Elkem at Grundartan show that it is more difficult to get into this situation, so to speak. But we are in the process of taking a high risk, knowing that by 2015, for example. Isal's cell would have stopped her operations. So we need to keep this in mind, since thousands of jobs are involved and exported.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u182	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. As shown in the senator's speech, we need to be careful to step to the ground in these cases, speaking of electrical prices because of such large companies, such as Elkem and others, that we see natural benefits in working on land because of a lower electrical price and we don't want them to leave the country because of rising prices. So I agree with the senator that if we agree with this package, we have to step to the ground with caution, and there this induction of the third energy package is very much considered, what will follow it, and what it will be up to us. That is why I once again make a decision to postpone the case and/or send it to the EEA Committee for Correction. It also targets electrical prices to the public. The common people in general are complaining about high electrical prices, especially in cold places where houses are held with electricity and all methods of trying to discount it with some of the political schemes have really not been successful. Somehow, some other part of the electronic bill goes up. The concern of the nation's homes is that electrical prices will increase even more if the electricity sector is looking at a change due to the induction of the third energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u183	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. This is a legitimate concern. A senator comes to a house warming with electricity, which is somewhat in the country. The energy pack has three concerns because it contains a directive that could be interpreted as a rule against the general ban on electricity subsidies. I spoke to the secretary of state when he came here this week. He could not answer that question in any way but that we would continue to put electricity down. But what if we make comments on this, in violation of competitive reasons so rich in EU energy companies, that no distinction can be made? This subsidies for house warming in Iceland is quite unique, and it just describes that our market is different, and we have nothing in common with this market in Europe. I remind you that by a pack of energy one, all special contracts were on top of that. House warming was not legalized according to the directive, and therefore they were discontinued. This resulted in dozens of increases to certain homes in the country. For this reason, there have been no solid reasons why. [[The president calls.]] But this is one of the rules that we've been doing and without adequate discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u184	Thank you, Mr. President. I think that's what I'm talking about. A senator noted that during the past few years, land activation has been like a state of state. That has even been true. published in that institution has worked hard to prepare for a sea cable to be laid. I don't know for whose commission. This institution, like other institutions, has a government government, which, of course, is selected by political parties, but I don't know that it was entrusted in some way to prepare for the shape of a sea cable. That is why I asked for the Agency's expense during the last ten years of preparing a sea cable and disuniting that payment. I'm not a spokesman for Iceland's major industry entering the national treasury chests. But it's hard for the prom, if I can put it that way, to find the prices that both parties can accept. Sadly, that conclusion did not come. This has terrified many of the men in the Northwestern District, including the U.S.A. Officers and others, and it's a natural serious issue if we start losing companies and more in the country. It's remarkable that this is taking place on the duty of the Independence Party Minister, which is rather lame under industry. But I'm waiting. A senator to review it with us what would be a potential impact if, for example, that would be possible. This factory would follow up and stop work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u185	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. The effects of any of these enterprises could be serious. It is to remind you that national activation made an electrical agreement with ISAL, Straumsvík, 2010. Almost since then, the Straumsvík aluminium has been run by losing and by little, as I said before, that the company was closed in 2015. So the danger of it happening is real, Mr. President. The result? Yes, hundreds of jobs would be lost, if not thousands of jobs, secondary jobs, many. Various hardware factories, electric contractors, carpenters, and other industry work different jobs for these companies, and all of these jobs will be lost. Naturally, the effects for national preparation would be significant. For example, economic growth and success will be affected by the growth of the population budget. We can only see how the WOW airline's fall had a national interest, national interest concern, financial plan, financial policy we're shooting at right now. We'd look at the exact same thing as I think a far worse result than we're dealing with right now because of the fall of WOW off the airport. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u186	Mr. President. There's a lot of reason to worry about this, and I cut what I saw on the Internet yesterday or tomorrow, that last year the place in Straumsvík was run with a considerable peak of billions. Although I'm not a spokesman for a large business of foreigners running freely around the treasure of the state, it must be the advantage of all of us that this company is still operating. In fact, it was shown in the highest answer. Prime Minister during the discussion the other day, she said something about the fact that in many ways the industry saved us after a crash with export income, etc. I was less shocked than the fact that the leader of the left green would glorify a major industry. But not long ago, a structure called the medium - sized green was built on Boka of Húsavík. So, of course, they, like everyone else, have come to appreciate the need for further support. Rather, it is necessary to ensure that the economic situation will be established and that the electrical price provided will be met. I'd like to do it. A senator would go over it with us, because he's a Southnesian, how he thinks it would have been if the plant in Straumsvík would stop or put up the sails. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u187	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator, particularly for pointing out that during the past year, there was a significant delay in the survival of the plant. It is quite clear that an enterprise of this kind will not be run for years with a tilt without drastic action on these materials. I think we have to realize that this situation might lead to an enterprise such as the Straumsvík. No doubt, some, especially those who have wanted to do business out of the country, would look forward to seeing someone. Then they have a point of view, e.g. Hear within the left green Effects e.g. ...in the South would be considerable, as we say, and also in the Big Nautilus zone. This would have a significant effect on the outbacks of Hafnarfjörðurtown and the level of employment, just in general, on all the secondary jobs I mentioned earlier. So we have to have a responsible policy with these enterprises when it comes to electrical contracts. But I reiterate that it's probably trying to increase the cost of the big business to the point of making peace with these companies that both parties can reasonably enjoy. Otherwise, there is danger.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u188	V.E.G. President. In the discussion that has been going on for some time, it is clear that the government groups speak against their own grass root. Nor will anyone watching community media notice a storm. It speaks against the third pack of energy, the total number of sponsors of all the government groups. Of course, it is each time that the senator handles his authority. But I have to, top dog. President, quoting conclusions from three political parties and letting me draw attention to that of these three conclusions, there is only one political party that follows its course. The political parties'conclusions on energy issues, with permission of the highest power. President: The mission team defends Iceland's energy-industry countries and rejects the European Union's energy legislation as part of the European Commission Convention on the European Economic Area. - This is the Special Assembly of the Future Party in February 2018. The suicide party rejects further expeditors of the European Union's dominion over the European Union's energy market. - This is shown at the Independence Party meeting in March 2018. ▪ The mass protects national sovereignty, independence, and resources. The team will want to trust the national custody of their resources and will violate the approved third EU energy package. The Party does not approve of the sale of Iceland's sovereignty over the energy resource nor does the expected rise in electricity prices here in the country. - This is shown at a party meeting of the Central Party on March 30, 2019. V.E.G. President. This calls attention to the persecution and gives rise to this matter when so many people are concerned about the situation. According to polls, this is a majority of the nation's population. So far, it has been good for the people to have something to say. In this context, I plan to quote Arnar Þór Jónsson's article in the morning issue of May 28, 2019, with permission from the Supreme Court. President: When this cable is financed (whether it is an international or international company, it will not be divided.) This is because if the United States still tries to prevent the cord from being laid, it will be a legal offense against Iceland. The Icelandic state will obviously lose the issue where energy is listed, as per the four-leaving freedom laws on free flows on the lips... Here another lawyer expresses himself. That's why I ask, Is there no doubt that we must stop? As noted many times, is it not better to take care to go to the ground and postpone the matter? They're trying to get a synonym approved. The President of Iceland will have no access to the case because it's a matter of Congress and not a bill. It presents a real challenge to each senator's conscience. Of course, every senator has taken a vow to the Constitution of Iceland. The Constitution is to be respected above all by a member of the body. I think it's my duty as a senator to slowly step to the ground. The constitution is under control. I don't like to have to sit under it, as if I've been like my party members, being excommunicated in isolation and a popu list or something worse.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u189	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. I made a special decision when he suggested that there had been a change of policy in the administrative system, i.e. Groups of the administrations. I'd like to ask him a question about his interpretation of why it just happened. What caused them to change their mind? There are other factors, such as questions about a senator's own convictions. We'll vote here, and we'll work with our good convictions in the books. We have repeatedly mentioned in the public discourse that we should hurry and examine the facts. I really like it when we want to make a decision on the information we have acquired during the council, especially on such a big and important matter. I'm gonna give myself a second. A senator shares my feelings about standing here, and I will want all the information I can get before making my decision. But at least I ask specifically what has caused this change in the management sector in terms of a pack of three energy?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u190	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagle Daughter for the counter-sponsored questions. Speaking of the change in policy of the classes, it is evident that reading the conclusions of the members of the board in this case, or the forwarding party and the Independence Party, both of which are in the government, that today there is a complete U-bed from that conclusion, and that makes it seem surprising to me and the rest of us who have been discussing it. But why this U-floor has been taken is a complete mystery and is naturally an extremely dishonest manner toward the grass roots of the groups and those who have chosen the classes. We are represented by the voters because of the policy we produce, and the conclusions given at the platoon councils, and so on, you will win. And this kind of U-bay thing is something I don't know an explanation for. But we've been wondering about this during the discussion. It has been said that the combination of the government that is on the board of today's administration is a broad range of appeals over the political axis over the right to the left and when such categories cooperate with them, so the policy issues for each party are likely to go through only frequent and frequent. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u191	V.E.G. President. That is exactly how we have deepened our discussion. I remember the first time we started talking about a pack of energy, I thought it was very complicated and even difficult to detect any strands that seemed to be visible if you could trace it, so to speak. Little wonder, then, that we have received many greetings and encouragements to continue our discussion, since further information on the consequences of handling the matter on the basis of today's decision to do so is being added, as is the case with the Constitution and the ceremony and such factors. It's a big deal, and we know that people have called for more information. We've tried to give them all we can. We've also taken the tips we've received and tried to work with them, for it involves the threads I mentioned at the outset. There are many of them that make it necessary for us to try to get to all aspects of the matter. But I just want to ask you one more question to do it. A senator with regard to Europe's cry for pure energy. It's more about our pure energy here on a country we've enjoyed so far. Either way. A senator doesn't share with me that I'm concerned that we may not be able to control our energy issues, but we're going to have three energy packages created as we intended. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u192	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagle Daughter for the second answer. The Senator admitted that the matter is complicated and that it was very complicated when we first got to it. When I began to get caught - I'm not good at law or anything - I approached the matter from another side, saying, as just an ordinary Icelander out in a country that likes his country and his people and his nature well. And then things were explained to me, it's about the natural resource, the hydropower, the geologicist and that we have the right to our natural resources. In that light, I approach the case, i.e. from what I watch with the glasses I wear to it and from it I talk. Law is not my strong aspect, but I listen to scholars in that regard. In terms of pure energy and EU and that question, we are also involved in what we are dealing with, i.e. The climate, and the direction we Iceland are going to take in our case, to deal well with that. It's good to be connected with dirty energy abroad from then on in the streets. It is something that the future holds, how we can take care of it. But there's no discussion here and now we're talking about the energy package, but it's definitely connected in that discussion and I'm sure it's a lot in a pack of four. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u193	Mr. President. This was needed as a speech. A senator came along. It is very important to show how present political groups have betrayed their plans that were made in their campaign and that they became involved. In many ways it could be said, since these groups were previously found to be different groups that did little together, that it is as if those classes were the worst in the rest. That's why it was all right. A senator would draw out how they have burned bridges and betrayed his voters in this case as well as in others, because it did not offer any of the administrative groups to advance their policies before elections to install this pack of energy. The question must be about why two of the governmental parties abandon national meetings and, on the other hand, the central government release, which are the natural domains of these two groups, where grass roots or backlands meet and shape their policy. Thus, these are not groups of members in themselves to shape a policy for the future. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's opinion of the situation is that there is clearly a division between members of the government and their backlands or the general public of society.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u194	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson for this answer. In any case, U-landering or betraying his plans is the U-involved phase taken in these terms. It is true that no member of the board volunteered to enforce that U-turn, but the same, as was shown in my reading of their earlier resolution, that it was their course. The senator asks about a gap, a gap, or a gap, between friends, or the subversive, and classes. I must take it seriously with the interest of grass subs or the public in mind that have followed these groups, but it may also be political that I am filled with some measure of joy over it because there is water on our mill that continues our course in that matter and may be concerned with the way in which we are going. We have been one class in this struggle over the past few days and weeks, and we are exhausted in it for as long as we need it. But the root of the groups in the government must have become quite shredded. You hear it, too, and you read it. The concern must be great in that town.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u195	Mr. President. Yes, it must be, and it can be done because enough of you are aware that the supporters of these classes are very active because you are on the way to describe the disappointment that the classes they may have been in for decades are not doing for what they have promised. I thought why. A senator makes clear the difference between the three governmental parties that have betrayed their promises for elections and who have followed up their words to their members and to their party members, contrary to the fact that the third energy package will be created in Icelandic rights, is what came up in his campaign plan, the category's policy, to protect Icelandic interests in energy. What I would like to hear from it. A senator is who he believes could be the result of these classes, both in his promises before elections and his party. What could have been the consequences of short - term and prolonged periods? It'd be a catch if it hadn't happened. In a few words, a senator would review it with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u196	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson for that second answer. I may not be a good prophet, but because of my experience, I've been watching the political bitch for years and having been working in politics for some time, I know that it's often said that politicians who've had experience in the goldfish memory of the voters at the time of the occasion, like I've quoted in a speech and seen in more speeches, the sort of thing or the U-bays and they're in the case on the third energy package. What follows in the conclusions of these two categories is a complete reversal, and then I give it that they rely on this memory to work, so that when the next election blows, everyone will have forgotten what is going on. There's nothing else I can really say and stay, except that I hope people won't forget it. I believe that's a piece of paper being broken in the story with it. This situation is unprecedented, that we are talking here day and night about this matter. It's not because of anything we're doing. That's for damn sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u197	Mr. President. It is informative for all of those who have observed and observed the discussions here during the previous sex to think that at the time the discussion has been discussed, important information has been presented that is not available at the beginning of the discussion. Alternatively, e.g. Note that at the beginning of the discussion, there were no plans for which an international corporation has to link Iceland and England with a cable. Nor did it occur when we began our discussion, or it had not been highly recommended, let's say, for it was in itself, that four important lawyers would have said that the way the government and the government groups and their covens are going on the case would be subject to legal uncertainty. This was not so clear and had not been held up at the beginning of the discussion. Nor was it possible when the discussion began that this could affect Iceland's constitution to the extent that it had not been done before. It had not gone to high ground either. It had been debated in the house - to - house ministry, but in itself it was not called to the fore. So it's interesting to go over this now and have to go over it now. If the government groups had made their choice, along with their cohesion fish, it would have already been adopted by this Parliamentary decree, Iceland, that this energy package had already been introduced with maligned warnings and that we were standing before being connected to Iceland by a commercially funded sea string and is now attending the license of the British government, because it seems somehow that this company does not need the permission of the Icelandic government to proceed with it. If this had happened, the nation would be confronted with this act without having been able to do anything or have any effect on what had happened, simply because no one had asked the people what they wanted to do about it. In fact, a survey revealed that more part of the Icelandic nation is opposed to taking up this energy package in Icelandic. Nevertheless, the government groups, along with their covens, have decided to destroy the nation's majority will and to squeeze the energy package into the human neck, shove it through the council at as fast as possible. In itself it was prevented by holding back anything against it, by endeavoring to do so, because, as one fine man said, it is not necessary to defend national interests. It's the point, Mr. President, that even though we're standing here and we're in that place for a discussion at the council that's never been before, such as this meeting we're about to meet, it's not out of nowhere, it's not for no reason, and it's not for nothing. That is why the group that is here will continue to find out about this matter, because it is not a matter of defending national interests. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u198	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson for the speech. It had a little work to do, and the warnings are said to apply if a cable is laid. I would like to reflect on the fact that the three energy package is going through the council as it is planned now, we are part of the European energy market, and this will be the European energy market that decides to land a sea cable to Iceland if it is suitable for them. We have learned that the European Union's laws are more legal than ours so that we will not have anything to say, as Sunday Times's review suggests that there are investments ready by support of the European Union, where that project will be robust, ready to attack this cable. I think it's pretty good thinking for a man. A senator to discuss warnings and would like to have him deepen it further, as it seems unclear whether the warnings apply to a pack of three energy, or whether they apply only to the sea cable and whether we will have something to say. It's not enough to hope. I think we need to look at the facts.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u199	Mr. President. In fact, there is one more thing that I couldn't do in my speech that really matters and was not known two weeks ago. It is the fact that the four energy packets have come to light, and it may have been, not just perhaps, but mischievous, so that you are polite, that you have become more attached to this coalition and closer together, and then have grown up with suddenly subscribed to a series of energy packs without the people having anything to say. Thus, a number of people have said that the warnings made in question could cause them to become very poor when it may cause them to sue the Icelandic state. This could cause us a very big harm. There are a number of people who have warned about this, who have warned the government against it. I was last under the morning or sometime last night to review the story of the man who knows the EEA deal alone. I was reviewing the comments of former Jón Baldvin, son of Hannibalsson. A senator and a chief. Ministers, in which he agrees with what probably four to five jurists have discovered, that the warnings given to this matter are not worth a dime. They will not be. And it will be so that if we get involved in a lawsuit, the case will be thrown out, at least on account of the failure of the defenses.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u200	V.E.G. President. Indeed, it is an excellent point that despite repeatedly seeking, the warnings have not been found. I'm sure you're right about what you're doing. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson that they don't hold water, and they won't matter when we discuss the proposed sea cables. That's the very point of the matter that these four, five lawyers have learned, that such declarations, news announcements, or what we want to call them, will not keep because they are really just political statements, declarations of will, common understanding, and what words are used, while we haven't put this into proper costumes, it won't really matter. Perhaps the point is that it has not been legally premiumed to any object because it is known that although it does not touch a pack of energy directly, it will not hold water at all in the event of a possible sea cable fix here. I think it's a very valid view to keep rolling it up, so I want to ask a question. A senator for Biffit. It has touched me, so that the Biffit and British exits there could have a profound effect on the development of things. What would be the reaction of the subspecies, and with what effect?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u201	Mr. President. It is because of the fact that if Britain was no longer part of the European Union, the matter would probably look different and the third energy package in itself would be of little value. However, there is another factor about which we do not know which will be, and it is that Scots have declared that they want to stay in the European Union, so there is uncertainty on all sides. That is exactly why it is so necessary for us to have what we would call everything straight. There is a man in human hands who has stepped in front of the government to warn and to point out the government and the government classes to prevent those who are incompetent and the only precautionary measures to be effective are they to be preconceived as the European Union or to the collective committee itself. Government and government groups are advised to reject the package and send it into a covenant treatment of the joint committee. The government changed. What happens now, when we, one group, have been trying to bring a greater part of the Generals in this regard, pointing out that this is what the majority of the people do not want by surveys, i.e. does not want the third energy package, it seems odd to you that the will to do this ax syrup is so determined that you don't listen to anything or anything. We have expressed that, of course, people do not have to listen to us, but it may be better to listen to the most skilled experts on this subject. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u202	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson for the speech. He used to come around and start worrying about what's coming up, what's going to happen if this package is introduced. I'm here on the rosary below, and I'm going to use my speech on the stage-screens in that regard. And then I reveal a little bit about the talk, we have news that has been received on the subject. It has been observed that in this discussion some new reports have been received in this regard, including the company's Atlantic SuperConnection, which has described its plans to produce sea cables in England and then put it to Iceland. It's just waiting for this package to go through. The speaker's speech on this subject came to my mind. In this regard the watchmen have no meaning, because as the senator entered, they are not worth a dime. As a result, I would like to ask the senator: Is not this the very thing that is coming to light during this tireless discussion that we have been in and that has, I want to mean, deepen the matter, i.e. that a pack of three affects land, in contrast to what has been claimed by his followers? [[The president calls.]] He'll have an effect if he's made.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u203	Mr. President. Yeah, that's right. As I said in my talk, there are some things I listed that were not known to us two weeks ago or ten days ago, which have come on the day. It's clear that we had unchanged, i.e. If the government groups and their co-fishers, the greater part of the General Assembly, would have done so with the third energy package and the new things that have come to the fore, i.e. that the four pack of energy has arrived, that this company in the United Kingdom has funded a cable and has been prepared to place it. And third, which may have been clear some time ago but has been strengthened, i.e. that those who are put in the way are incompetent. It is such a weighty responsibility for those who make the decision that comes from sticking to it. However, the aftereffects or consequences may not appear until some year later. It may be seriously that the effect of this act, as defective as it is, does not take on us as such, it bites our children. He's biting on our grandchildren. This may be serious in this case, and perhaps that is primarily what this group has been standing and trying to control the mother is trying to prevent by any means possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u204	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for these answers. I just want to say what happened next. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir The Year's Daughter before what? Senator, I couldn't tell if he answered. It is about Baltrexit and what is going on in that town, about the spread of the British from the EU. Can the senator give me light or instruct me about or wonder what the British exit, or what is going on now, will change or what will be the consequences of the situation we are dealing with now, both with the energy package and with a possible cable that might connect to it to the country and to the mainland? Does the senator see into his prophetic ball what it could do in the light of the situation of this Bgret case and the phase that the British are in, which you will see? But words would be first, and it would be nice to hear the senator's speculations in that direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u205	Mr. President. V.E.G. The minister of foreign affairs, according to his own report, has had discussions with the British about what will happen immediately and if the British leave the European Union. Without my immersing myself in it, I would think that would complicate the situation. But as I said in my answer before you asked me why. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún of the Year's Árnadóttir, the Scots have proclaimed a national bill for continuing life in the European Union. If the cable ends in Scotland, but it now seems that Scots will stay in the European Union, we may be in the same position as this. I, myself, would think that a small or unattracted matter would think that the British exit from the European Union could possibly interfere with this matter. But I doubt that in itself it would change the state of which we are in, we would still be, unchanged, if this case goes through as much as most of the council has been trying to contribute, without warning in this energy package with the fourth person within reach. So our situation as such would be as bad as it is today, considering that this matter will remain the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u206	V.E.G. President. I'm thinking of discussing my speech on short notice. I'm gonna allow me to start by quoting an entry that Governor Arnar Þór Jónsson published on his Facebook page because of his statement. Ministers of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, for a warning and a sea cable. By permission of the President: ▪ I don't trust myself to speak for all lawyers as the prime minister does here, but I think it's proper and obliged to emphasize one point: At the time that this cable is financed (whether it is a foreign or a foreign company that does so), all of the representatives of Generalis will not be divided. This is because if the United States still tries to prevent the cord from being laid, it will be a legal offense against Iceland. The Icelandic state will obviously lose the language of energy, as shown by the Tetragrammaton on free flow. This is something people would have had to discuss honestly (and detailed) in previous stages. Thus, economic costs and costs could have been discussed materially, at the cost/miss of sending electricity to other countries. In this discussion, the Icelandic statesmen would have at least More solid land under the feet than the prime minister has in this interview. Now we can have a firm view of whether we should define energy as a product. To me, it seems to me that to some extent that it could go, but it can't, because in our case, we're discussing energy as one of our basics. We rely on energy to stay out, for example. Businesses all over the country and even to keep their homes all over the country, so to speak. But to speak the highest. Prime Minister. She said that she hoped that a cable would never be placed in this country and that all lawyers would agree that a third supply of energy would not involve such a bellow, and it would never be done unless it was made by the General Assembly. But we can see in our hand that once we're part of the European energy market, it's impossible to prevent investors from making a decision to put a sea cable into the country. I would have liked to have at the time, if it had been possible, when it was being introduced a energy package one and a energy package two that you would have had some idea of what was occurring in more energy trays. That's why we've called for information about what is in a pack of four energy and now we know that what is most about the possible transport of cleaner energy, climate, and such factors. We are also concerned that there is no doubt about whether a three-pack of energy does not include a deed to our energy, thus making us part of the European market and their laws will exceed our laws. There are so many things about it that we ponder over our discussion. We've been calling repeatedly after the case is referred to the joint EEA committee so that we can figure out what is right for any opinion that today is no more than a political statement if we give specific notice. I reiterate that an article in the Sunday Times told us that everything is about to go to Iceland and one that is missing from the British government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u207	Mr. President. It has just been published on the website of this company, which wants to put in this cable that there remains a recent political change in Iceland in a very good relationship with the Minister of the Government of Iceland, all classes, and that the transpolitian wants to increase in Iceland for the sea cable being laid. At least this is something we knew not ten days ago that had increased in this way. This makes it more necessary than ever for the warnings we put into our hands by means of the burning process that we may face. Because of what? A member of the U.S. District Attorney Arnar Þór Jónsson's article appeared on his Facebook page, reminding me that last morning he is probably a lawyer number four or five who spoke out as if the guards who had not stood up and answered that question as the highest standard. The prime minister had said only in the past that there was no lawyer. But now it has been carefully corrected. I'm asking why. A senator in view of all this already available, has remained clear in the past ten days or so: Is it not a complete delirium to ignore such warnings and not send the energy package to the joint EU committee, as so many have noted? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u208	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's for it. You see, there is something special that the government opposition here is organized by many European groups who want to do everything to get us into the European Union - the only way we should have been brought to the conclusion that there might be no special support to the situation, should have been on some road that is not known how it ends. For example, Pálsson's son Þorsteinn's article says that we are taking steps in the EU, and he rejoices over what should be of great concern. Hv. A senator mentioned the writings of Deputy Arnar Þór Jónsson, who, in my opinion, are very good because he thinks it's only right for us to stay and act in the right legal direction. In the United Kingdom, investors have come to say that they will create hundreds of jobs in the northeastern part of England. There are 25 investors involved. So it's just a lot at stake, and it's not smart to drive the case through the council as it is now, but it's just to take all the threads we've cast here and get our hands on the case so that we can make the right legal decisions so that we just don't get it back.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u209	President. The question is exactly as far as it is concerned that when Arnar Þór Jónsson, the noble jurist, and the district judge, showed up his entry the day after the prime minister had talked about the fact that no lawyer was in this opinion, he added to the group of the above, as we have been talking about, but has not been much in the discussion because it seems that a foreign committee had chosen those who were worthy to be mentioned in the committee's list of more parts. Other than that, they were not allowed to summon all those willing to summon the committee. At some point it was cut off and told that this case would be torn out, because men were dying to get the case through the council before it came up that the fourth pack of energy had arrived, before it came up to the point where the cable was in the weight of the weight and almost ready to lay it down, before it realized that there might be more than one or two who would believe that the models we've made for ourselves, i.e. Governments and its covens would be inadequate. As I said, it was not as thorough ten days ago as it was now, but in the ten days that the government was going to drive this case through the Council of bridal at the majority of the nation's will.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u210	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much. You see, it might be wise at this point to arrange for a meeting on the Foreign Affairs Committee and to receive for the committee the visitors who were not delivered to discuss the new points on the case we have covered, e.g. that the warnings are incomplete, if there is any place to find, whether or not they care nothing about a pack of three energy and aim mainly to consider the availability of parties to land, whether Europe's legislation goes higher or longer than Iceland's law. There are all these things that seem to be coming up on the surface. I remember when we were at the last assembly talking about the new protection laws that we adopted after the European Union. I remember that it took 13 days to file a case through the council, and there was absolutely not enough discussion in the matter of my knowledge because there is still a lot of opinions involved. So I suggest we take one more spin on this matter. I think it's a huge deal that people get to express themselves and roll up the lawns we've repeatedly suggested they've come up.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u211	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagle Daughter for a fine talk, which included material coverage of the warning, sea cable, energy pack one and two, and spanning over a considerable amount of material. I just want to pause at the Senator's meditation on the induction of an energy package one and two and what it really did. In an energy pack, energy was defined as a product or consumer product, in a energy pack, there was an exchange of production and distribution. It is human interpretation, and I agree, that electricity is no ordinary consumer product, not at all, since the transport of electricity is always reduced in electricity transport, varyingly according to the mechanism of equipment, and consequently electricity can reduce by up to 20% in transport, especially between countries. It plays into, for example. change from current to equal current and then from equal current to current, in case of equal current. I'd like to ask the senator in this connection: Is that not why? Because the senator came in to see that we had no discussion at the time -- which we're stuck with these cases from these two energy bags today, and what we're going to do to prevent the payment of a pack of three, i.e. discuss the matter in detail so that we are informed about what is contained in a pack of three energy?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u212	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll Jónsson won the questions. Energy pack one defined energy as a warning, if we knock it all the way in. Perhaps it was the first father ever made to accept one of our basic foundations, which I consider energy to be, as a product, because it's not a normal product. It's a resource. It's a resource we're supposed to use on our terms and in terms of nature and all, and in particular, we're going to run the resource as ours. I never feel that way enough. Like what? A senator came onto the river is absolutely accurate that energy is lost when it is taken, especially by sea cable. Maybe it's, like, cot. A senator mentioned, a loss of 20%. I've been told that there'll always be a loss on the producer, not the buyer. We produce energy in Iceland. We'll carry it through a sea cable and the resulting losses will land on us, thereby increasing electricity prices to companies, individuals, and households. I'd like to say, if you don't mind. This is what lies ahead and should be obvious to everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u213	V.E.G. President. You see, this is, you could say, something fundamental. We're talking electronics. We're discussing the definition of energy. I completely agree with the senator that electricity is a resource matter. We're producing electricity mostly by energy, but also by geothermals, and then windmills are growing. This is no ordinary product. Electric energy is an important harnessing power that has a long history. Now that we have it in our hands, we want to keep it that way. That's why we're talking about this case, really picking up all the cracks that can happen on the bottom of the sails that are supposed to be placed on a fleet if the three energy package goes through. Today, that boat is snorkeling. There's been a lot of talk about the loss of electricity in an internal transport, and I've heard concerns like that. Landnet and other institutions within the electricity sector at the cost of losing in electricity transport. As the senator mentioned earlier, the loss of electricity transport between countries is great, and I know that they are so great that we don't really have that capacity today to survive, and that's why we would have to go through a much greater efficiency program to fill up with the ability to transport electricity between countries. But it's a future mouse. I don't have a direct question in this second answer. I thank you. A senator for an excellent speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u214	The president would like to remind you that answers are meant to ask the speakers questions or to contradict their views.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u215	V.E.G. President. That's a good criticism. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Páll Jónsson is now only right about this beginning and taking care of things, so I'll just take it up for a reason. A senator. He pondered wind mill gardens, and then I woke up with a question: Is there any need for them in Iceland? Is there a need for us to set up windmill gardens to allow enough energy to exist in this country? Or are there other reasons why people are really thinking about windmills as some big thing? We know that the transfer of electricity within the country has been mainly in man, and the Landsnet has given the very idea that something really needs to happen in that regard. Of course, I'm on the level that energy is a resource matter, since we use all the energy on everything we're taking over. Thank you. A senator is eager to draw attention to it. I think we have two prime products that deal with the definition of resources and how to process resources. These are two matters that we already have and have recommended in this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u216	V.E.G. President. What I want to do with my discussion in this talk is a staging analysis or something in that direction. What has mainly been missing in recent discussions - and then I have to eliminate the media's language - is, of course, to publish the scenarios that a third energy package might produce. They are many, but of course they depend largely on whether the stakeholders will test their rights if the directive is introduced and used as a means of getting laid down here by the sea cable. The legal premise, which is said to be there but nowhere, will probably not remain. What, then, is the situation? One stage could be this: The company Atlantic SuperConnection, which has declared its plans to produce sea cables in northeastern England and put it in Iceland, is sure to wait for the European Court to take over international cables by Iceland. In other words, government protests against this project after implementing a three - pack of energy can be expected to bring charges against the EFTA Court, in other words, to have a legal offense for the EEA Convention and to the European Court's claims on damages to the United States for unnecessary efforts to start a lucrative business. Clearly, the General is creating a great degree of justice if it relieves the administrative notice of a pack of three energy. It should be noted that the Friðrik Friðriksson Hirst and Stefánsson Moorsson have warned of this danger in their opinion since March 19, 2019. Any of these things happen, or exactly, they've opened the pandobox. We'll see a rising electrical supply for companies and homes. For example, an internal power market assumes that one market value. That's just the way it is. Understandably, garden farmers are concerned that electronic prices will come true if possible. Our special position in a variety of productions where we have enjoyed offering cheap renewable energy will lead to the export of the produce. If so, what would happen to all the available data beings now being built in many parts of the earth? This scene is certainly ugly, I admit it, but it's real, if things go the worst. We must never let that happen to any Icelandic nation. We must always remember that we are a nation in the EEA, where 400 million people live, where many major investors are drawing an eye to our electricity resources. So there is no better way than to reject the third energy package, activate the 102. g. The contract, adopt the case of the joint EEA committee, and receive an exception. It is not papalism or isolationism or anything like that. It is responsible, that is wise, and what we members of the Parliament must do. We've been working on these shifts, trying to make the government understand that nothing is wrong, and the government has been at its height. In an interview, the minister of industry said that the matter should not be delayed until autumn.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u217	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir For his talk, Páll Jónsson Sigurður his victory. It was interesting to have a discussion about the loss of energy by the electrician. I wondered, in the context of the fact that these issues are being discussed, based on the definition of electricity as a warning, whether the senator will quickly follow another product, defined as such, that is demeaning in a manner comparable to that of electricity, and does in longer transport. You know a story about a man ordering a shirt from Italy and that two right sleeves were on his shirt, but I've never heard an example of it missing an sleeve or a collar or something like that. Then the product is just defective. It is interesting, though, to know whether this is the only product that might be affected by the loss of electricity in a long distance of transport. Can the senator remember any other product? It was an exit, but what I wanted to ask. A member of the council is the viewpoint he stated that it would be a slow and delayed matter until the fall for men, governments, and both supporters and skeptics of the induction, to give time to dig deeper into underlying evidence and reasoning. Now was the time. A senator coming in after a brief leave of absence, but I ask: Has he heard anything in the discussion that would contravene until the autumn?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u218	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason for his answer. So I'll answer the last question first, because the person standing here is coming from a half month off and on that vacation often didn't make phone calls, but it fell in once in a while, and then I began to watch the news and watch even the World Congress Channel. In this regard, what I can say is that my opinion and my opinion that this matter is to be delayed has been further increased in view of the fact that more and more news and information have been made payable to introduce this package, so to speak. But because the senator also revealed that the person standing here is an electrician and not just a gratarian, I admit it kindly because at the time, I took a test of youth in electrical activation, and I really enjoyed that theory, and I love electricity production and electrical power. It is science and chemical, but still simplicity is very understandable. These losses we're talking about are due to electrical resistance and physicality and cannot be altered by any technology. It is only there and will always be, so the loss that is being discussed in this relationship is permanent and future. Scientists don't see anything to change, so it's something that needs to be dealt with for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u219	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll Jónsson Sigurður the answer. I'm just gonna get into it a little bit better. A candidate entered his talk and focuses on how the matter has been resolved in a hurry in its progress. Now I'm assuming that's what. A senator as well as others noted that the last fall seemed to be unsatisfying. Ministers, first the highest. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Þór Þórðarson and then the Supreme Minister. In November 2000, the industrial minister of Þórdís Kolbrún, Rohfjordur Gylfadóttir, declared it. Each day during an interview in the Morning Press, you are not in a hurry. V.E.G. The minister of Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson immediately declared them a postponement until the spring council, the highest. The minister of Þórdís Kolbrún, the daughter of Gylfadóttir, declared a predictable postponement to the 2019, and the word in itself said that it might be delayed longer. I know why. A senator when this change occurred, i.e. that all of a sudden was on the verge of putting the matter through, and this warning was introduced by the former head of the Independence Party, which has called praiseworthy deception in the case? I know what you're doing. A senator of what it's like, when's the ass come to?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u220	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the questions. It's a little difficult to answer with the rush the senator came in, but it's obvious because the speed of the situation now is so intense that you barely get it, and it's very different from what you've experienced not so long ago. It was somehow so that after the New Year's session before the session, an attempt was made to get it in just before Christmas, but, fortunately, delayed in March, April, it seemed as if those members of the government who were very skeptics were turned around. They changed their minds on this matter. They took no note of bringing in this package, but then they agreed completely that the package would pass through and carry them out the warning and other information they read from the reviews and advice. For some reason, the speed increased during that period during the General Assembly. I don't realize why it is. It could be out of pressure from somewhere. Norwegians have been very interested in many developments, i.e. There are various factors on that town, so there may be many reasons for doing so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u221	Madam President. I'm in a bit of the same trail as what. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason was here earlier, I've been looking for reasons for the urgency of this matter. That's why I want to go into it a little bit with a bang. A senator why he is. It has now been stated that if this case had just slipped through the council, as if the order of the government and its ensuing post, we would now have an approved Senate resolution, but would have agreed to it that the fourth energy package had arrived, that the cable would be in our backyard, that more and more lawyers would come up and say that our warnings on this case would be ruined. I'd like to ask you something. To which of these reasons, a senator likely considers himself to be in a hurry, as it were. Is that the information that the fourth energy package is here? Is that the record of more and more lawyers saying that the warnings are thwarted? Or is it the information that the cable is ready and can be on its way here soon? Is that why the government wanted to slip this case through the council at the same rate as they do?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u222	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson for this answer. We continue to talk about viewpoints about where these things take place. It is a good point for the senator regarding a pack of energy because it has proved to be the right thing to do and has developed a perfectly fine skeleton that can tell what is in it. If this is being done, as the senator came in, slip a pack of energy through three before we realize what's in a pack of four - and we've been calling for a first look at it. That's one reason we want to postpone the case, because we want to know what the consequences of a three - pack energy package against a four energy package. I can quite agree that it is what the followers of the case want us to do, that we cannot see what is in a pack of energy four because it may explain that if we accept a pack of three of energy as they are served, we are in a lot of trouble, as we have been wondering about the concerns we have of e.g. Let the watchmen not hold, let them not be worth a dime, and so forth.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u223	Madam President. Now it has been observed that the nation's largest public organization of 130,000 members is opposed to the induction of a three - pack of energy. Many industrial societies, such as the national union of the bakers, disagree. It is against the organization of gardeners. The domestic economists are against it; some communities that have sent in envelopes oppose it. According to polls, 62% of the people are opposed. Now I'd like to ask you what. A member of the Parliament for each reason believes that despite this, the government groups, along with their bodies, are determined to tread this package of energy through the council and into the nation's neck case. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: Does he believe that this is an ordinary form of authority? Does he believe that this is a cry between a council and a nation, i.e. the section of the council involved in this matter? Does he think that it may be that the government groups, along with satellites, are focused on not listening to national will? I'd love it if I could. A senator would discuss this matter with us only if he felt that it was a mixture of all these reasons, or if he felt that there is one reason more than anyone who chose that the government is so determined to push this energy package through into the hearts of the people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u224	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for his second answer. The senator named the nation, the people of the country, the companies, and listed various common relationships, companies, and the public. It is a fact that, according to polls, half of the population is or more opposed to this induction. Many people assume that they do not know exactly what this is all about. As a result, a presentation of the contents of the package would have to be clear and could be worn on a table so that all can get information about what this really means. The senator mentioned a possible mismanagement of power between nation and council and that politicians do not listen to national will. There is at least a gap between the council and the nation in this matter. You can read it from this poll. It could be said that if the nation were to be better informed about what really exists in this package, whether it is as we have been talking about, one piece of the sauna that is being worn on the table and next comes to four and five of the things that we an independent nation cannot bring against.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u225	Madam President. In one of the pink Panther films, we have a delivery to Clouseaus Clouseaus and there's a package that sucks. They roll this package a little bit between them until one of them shouts: "A bomb! " Another says, "What kind of bomb is that? " The one that goes off, or in English, is: 'The last one,' by permission of a president. In many ways it can be said that with the energy package now being emblazoned through the council or trying to slip through the council to the slightly opposing elements, a product is being carried by the government and its coherence, and the government groups are not quite sure how it works. The government is not sure if the defence is in custody. The government is unsure that the product will pass its constitution, and yet the government continues and the government groups and its covens continue to pass on that course in the scapegoat at the majority of the people's will, knowing that the common organizations in the country, which count 130,000, are opposed to it. Several labor leaders have taken their stand against them, and some have suffered because they thought that they were middle - class members. This may show the intimidation and the silence to be used only to slip these packages through the Allied Council of the Nation. I must say, Madam President, that it is very serious when nominal individuals who are official persons cannot reveal their thoughts to the country because they are suspected of being members of a particular political organization. This reminds us of a time in the United States between 1948/1949 and in 1957-1959, where people were appointed for being suspected of being Communists. Then they asked questions to members of the council, saying something like this: "Are you ever? Have you ever been? Or have you thought of being a communist? The fact that they can't open their minds in this case without officially being hit by men in public is a very serious thing. This may show how densely the network of any part of the Generalis is, i.e. They've been talking a lot about the party, but the national will seems to be different, to me. The next challenge is when people in Iceland cannot reveal their views on large issues that have to do with the nation's present and future without virtually losing their reputation. I think it's about time, Madam President, that this case, quite controversially, will be put aside for a while, and it will be postponed until the fall so that it can be won better and possibly work with the people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u226	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's heartfelt appreciation for his speech and meditation. He even talked about it. about individuals who have stepped forward and described themselves against the induction of the third energy package and that they have actually been shouted thereafter. I ran into an article in the Will where the director of the VG doesn't support the induction of the third energy package and I think this director, Bjarni Jónsson, so that I have the name, very realistic on the facts. He begins by referring to the fact that governments will further explain their meaning with the answers they have mentioned. He wondered whether the future will have to be so that every waterfall and earth's surface will have to be activated and damaged, and he will wonder if it really is the left green direction on the issues that have often been viewed as an environmental class and that have protected the resources of the country. I understand his concern and there may be the voice of the grass root, at least in the back of the green green, which a council of the left green could even take. I want in. A senator by the way he feels about it, whether he appreciates it so that there is the voice of the ordinary left green joint, the VG team, I want to put it that way, or what's going on there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u227	Madam President. Without being in my cage in the VG, it seems to me that in those camps there may be the biggest discipline, i.e. A person has met both informed independence and forwardees who have expressed themselves very open to the fact that they are completely against these packages and who have divorced their own party. This has not been so obvious, at least as far as the person involved here, but I'll say again that I'm not the top pot in the vG cage. However, I feel that this is true - indeed, more people have taken steps and have had the courage to say that they are opposed to the energy package, knowing that they can do personal wrongs about it - that people are gradually becoming courageous. It's a big challenge to have to say this, that people are gradually getting the courage to step forward and publicly say that they're opposed to the action that the majority of the council is going to do, and that their tails are going to hang through here with noise. Actually, I hope that this step will be taken by Bjarni Jónsson to give other men and women the courage and strength to step forward and try to help the government in a simple way that would allow governments to take the matter back, meditate, and hold the case at least. To the next fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u228	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson for this analysis. It may be true that this is the greatest discipline because few have taken a step. I'll take my hat off for Bjarni Jónsson, who is quite sensible in his approach, I'd like to say, because he says, by permission of the President: ... this is not consistent with the vision proposed by the VG. That's where we're losing custody of the resource and taking steps to market and privatization of energy. We'd, for example. wants to have power to control energy in environmental projects at home. This statement, as well as some strong words, makes it clear to me. There's a clear meaning in what he says. We have claimed that where we go is not clear and what I want to wonder at. Þorsteinn Sæmundsson is if he normally sees any advantage in bringing in the third energy package, if there's anything inside that can say, "Yes, all right, there's something good in this? It's a question of whether it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u229	Madam President. I'm gonna start by saying that when I talked about the discipline in VG, I didn't forget that the heavyweight players of that party and the gentleman like Jónasson, boy. a former senator, and Hjörleifur Guttormsson, as well. A former senator, has stepped forward in a very handsome way and expressed his opinion on this package of energy, so that it is quite certain that I am not beinglittled that they have displayed that courage, determination, and a prince's intention to step out of this matter. Do I see anything good in this package? Simply put: No. Like he's finished by this government, he's not just bad, I'm saying he's actually dangerous. I think that there may be very serious and costly consequences to the government and its covens in this case to the United States. Perhaps that is why the group that has held up any breath for a brief period of time and who intend to continue for as long as necessary will try to influence the governments and their satellite system for good. At this point, the results are not great, but I have the hope that the reason for these people will prevail or be revealed and they will withdraw this matter and save it at least. Until the fall. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u230	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson for his speech. I would like to inquire of the senator who was during the election season 20133/42016, during the period when it is safe to say that there were matters in Icelandic politics: Does the senator know many examples that it was as difficult for those who had the courage to step forward and give a bold explanation of the opinions of governments as in this matter? Then I'm talking about individuals who were defined in the internal party service of each class. Well, I've experienced a way of saying that the general platoons have an excellent freedom, so they share it with us on the day out and on the day in which we walk in this fight, but I've noticed that it's pretty hard for those who step out of the line to be there, when they're in each party to observe the attention and discomfort to the leadership that now wishes it would all go out and not have to worry about it again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u231	Madam President. I would first like to comment on the fact that the president did not have the opposing number. A senator said so. This could be improved if the information is folded together. Do I remember this in 2013,2016? No, not quickly, but I do not remember the fact that something was happening at that time. I remember, for example. After a very careful discussion of hunting costs bill, which was exactly the same area burned as a left - green bill in this present council. I remember that conversation very hard, and I remember that when they crossed the ranks and agreed with the prince's side of the bill, but I don't remember that those people came to this harm because of their stand. If we look at it, it's natural to be serious if it turns out to be the norm here that it is used and silenced so that people are afraid to express their thoughts. It's very serious, and I think people should think of things like that. Whether they are on Internet media, social media, or whatever the case, I think that a person should examine his mind carefully before going beyond that material.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u232	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson for the answer. From the viewpoints expressed in the previous year, I ask the senator what he said here: "Does the senator have any theory of why people react so badly to anyone who walks off the line? I'd like to teach you a theory, perhaps the senator appreciates whether he thinks I'm on the right track or wants to reform it. Well, it seems to me that the supporters of this formation at a council that comes from a number of government groups are feeling a little bad about it. Could it be that the reason for such an intense response when prominent supporters step off the line is because they think it is more likely that the matter will be done at a time, and that, so to speak, it would be necessary to walk these whipholes again, although it is not the purpose of this discussion to get political opponents into a special problem? The objective, of course, is to correct matters. Of course, the first time for the senator, who is in a position to end the matter, is, of course, the best time for the senator who has it cut short and that it is gone. Takes it. A senator under my theory, or is he better? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u233	Madam President. Now, the theory has been presented in the discussion, not only by a theory but also by certain ones, that many of the senators on both sides or reluctant to lend a hearing to the matter that is now being discussed have actually been deceived into following the case with these so - called omens. Now that it has been revealed through the discussion that the chiefs are not worth a dime, I can imagine that many members of the board, e.g. Independence party, feeling quite frustrated with themselves, having been persuaded to support the matter as unashamed as it is. That might explain the fact that a person is somewhat irritated with himself and that he lets it pass over others. But it's just a theory. The case, however, is that my judgment is above tribunal politics, although the majority of the council has been formed into a classal bitch. I think the matter should have been settled and needed to be settled in a wide sense, both within the council and at peace with the nation, but as the case stands at this point, the majority of the people are opposed. I don't fully understand the government that makes it a game to go against national will, even repeated, in order to deliver badly prepared, ill - prepared, and dangerous cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u234	President. Now it's about 15 minutes to 10 a.m. on Wednesday morning if I'm right to say it's all coming together these days. It is near to the end of a meeting for 24 hours, and today there are kitchen - day talks ahead, and some members of the council will, at least three, have to participate in discussions later today. On today's organization, I'd like to ask the highest. There's a decision on how the Senate will be conducted.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u235	The President can tell you that there are now three in the rosary of five minutes. Then we could complete this meeting in the next 15 minutes. It would be very wishful if it were possible to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u236	Madam President. As long as there is time, the number of the speakers will likely increase, so the meeting will be able to last a little longer if the president's mind is available. Now I expect the person standing here is one of the people who's going to take part in kitchen dates tonight, i.e. If this meeting is completed in time for that discussion, and I understand that it is expected that all members of Congress will be involved, regardless of whether they are going to speak or not. So I would like to know if you can expect to get home and change your shirt to be what's called the English language ◯preseable to this meeting. Otherwise, I don't make comments on the length of this meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u237	Madam President. At a council meeting. Monday was discussed in the main outlines of how the Senate would be held on this kitchen day. It's fine if it just comes out here if they're all down. A staff meeting has been canceled. It seems to me on the council website that a meeting has been canceled into the welfare committee. Is there a reason for us senators who are on the rosary and those who are following the discussion to read something specifically into this? Is the President going to keep us here with a meeting until the kitchen day talk? Well, then I'd be glad to have it in order as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u238	The president may reveal that the exact duration of this meeting has not been determined. You're right. Congress officials report, here are kitchen - day talks tonight, and the president can promise that people will be able to get home to prepare for that discussion. It is the right thing to say, senators are expected to be in the hall at the kitchen day's talk as usual.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u239	Madam President. In my speech, I'm going to come up with the point that turns to a question based on a general rational view of the position that exists, that's to try to figure out the answer to the question: If there's nothing in this matter, if it's so simple, insignificant and dangerous, why this panic? It is surprising that many people, with feelings of distrust and distrust, promote the feeling that there is something in the matter that is in control of the council and that the Minister, who puts out the Senate arrangement, would consider it best to complete by any means possible, that evil is the best thing to be done, so to speak. If nothing were involved, as we have been described, no dangers, no possible events, no knots, all knots, and all possible questions have been answered, it would be simply a decision to take the matter temporarily, leave other important matters on the council program, or the other to postpone the matter until the fall, allow the dust to sit down, and then try to help the skeptians to see that our concerns are unnecessary. No evidence is made to approach the matter in such a way. If there's something added to the uncertainties. Here is a matter of constant need for explanation and not an answer. V.E.G. The minister came here at last. Friday, for a third period of conversation with members of Congress, then returned to the country if I understood it correctly. That visit concluded that the skeptics had even greater doubts, so they failed to succeed. It is human nature to experience that when a developer tries, whatever the case, with all the means of avoiding material matters, if new information is made, put his head under, as he has done in this case, and say: This case should be completed in the current situation, and it will be resolved without any space being given in time to examine and analyze data better than it has already been done. This is noteworthy in the context of the fact that everyone today realizes that the members of the members of the administrations accepted, or who changed their mind, it is more correct to say so, on the basis of this alleged court order. In the writings of the district judge Arnar Þór Jónsson of the day, it says, by permission of the president: When this cable is financed... This is because if the United States still tries to prevent the cord from being laid, it will be a legal offense against Iceland. The Icelandic state will obviously lose the language of energy, as shown by the Tetragrammaton on free flow. That's the best. The Ministers of Foreign Affairs and other government ministers involved in one or another or members of Congress who support this introduction see no reason to discuss this viewpoint in view of the fact that the alleged defences are a fundamental element in accepting the case, to me, in perfect contrast. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u240	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. He turned aside from various aspects of his talk, repeated and asked our main proposal here, which is that this case will be postponed, and that the many points we have pointed out need for further inspection will be examined and examined. Hv. A senator could discuss the conversation that took place in this hall. Friday at the highest. Secretary of state showed up here. There is reason to give the ultimate witness. Minister and I would like to look for opinion. A senator on them. With the permission of a president, I will give a public talk. Minister. He said: ▪ Why don't we put off this matter? We are eager to find a minister's answer to that question. The answer is as follows: ▪ The reason we do not postpone this matter is because there is no reason to do so. Here people rightly say: "Hey, there's only a lot of people who are worried about this case. That's right, that's just right, but the advantage of finishing this case is that they'll see that those who went here very much and with a lot of fear do it out of place. I'll let me ask you what. A senator and a chief. Similarly: Is it appropriate to argue that such a big matter must be handled in order to shed some light on the appeal of those who have allowed themselves to have doubts about the matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u241	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Ólafur of Ísleifsson for recalling this costly and, in fact, amazingly answer to the highest degree. The minister of the minister of the Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson, to my inquiry. Friday. I must admit that this is the minister's response, in fact, lost in the direction of a twister whom we were offered in the minister's answers to our simple questions. This, of course, is so far from being an acceptable answer to questions that are reasonably stated as to whether it is right to take one to two steps back and allow the case to move forward. Not that the main reason for the case to go through is presented, so it allows people to see that their concerns were unnecessary. Of course, no one would think of setting this level as an answer to a reasonable, reasonable conversation, only if one is going directly to annoy the molder. Maybe it was the goal, probably. Fortunately, I don't think anyone could have said a word in this discussion with the members of the Central Party, but it could just be at the top. The minister of foreign affairs intended to try to exasperate our reaction with such a preposterous response.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u242	Madam President. In this answer, the highest will be chosen. Ministers calling for a case of those who have allowed themselves to have doubts, have allowed themselves to address this matter, have allowed themselves to deal with it with criticism, have allowed themselves to call for explanation, and have allowed themselves to care for their congregational duties, propaganda. With permission, Madam President, this word goes down, it's meaningless because it's the highest. A minister did not try or find a place for them. V.E.G. In the same talk, a minister sought to explain the warning given here. In his talk, he says that he is looking at an ETS study with a dynamic proposal for a bill to correct the conversion of electricity law No. 65/2003, with subsequent changes, from a greater part of the employment committee to the highest part. In view of this, does this prove to be a drafting drafting of the industrial minister's implementation order by an article that has some preconceived reason, but can anyone believe that there is a legal warning in the Minister's Regulation? A man who has been led by the search for a warning, a law - trained man with experience in police work and in the use of police technology and methods in his search for help cannot believe that there is a legal basis for being found in the Council of Ministers. [[The president calls.]] What do you think? A senator of that kind?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u243	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson of Isle has answered. To try to frame the answer to this question, let me mention the three points that should interest you in considering the need to consider the matter further. First of all, it's how badly the defenses seem to be established. Second, it's the Sunday Times news. Sunday, rather than Monday, over the pressure of British investors to initiate transpiration, and third, it is the viewpoint of a local judge, Arnar Þór Jónsson's son, who appeared two days ago, with as clearly as possible to describe the district judge that there was no need for action. The situation is very special when none of the supporters of the third energy package in Icelandic gives a reason for considering the matter for a few days, although not more, how much to postpone it until the fall. I reiterate what is said by Arnar Arnari Þór Jónsson of the province, by permission of the president: When this cable is financed, there will be no exchange for anything that will ever be taken care of.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u244	The president allows himself to draw attention to him. The senators assume that we have a fine guest at the Assembly Hall. There's a team of U.S. senators led by Lisa Murkowski who are visiting, and we thank them very much for coming.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u245	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech he gave. He spoke of how bad the matter was that men tried to execution in a way that is done here through the council. We have also noted that efforts are made to speed the matter up through the council, and it is near to say that what has not been seen before this council proposal was to be approved. that the fourth energy package would see that more lawyers came forward and declared the degradation of the warnings made against the situation and that we have a cable in the backyard. I guess, what. A senator, that this may be the reason why men try to cross the case, as they have attempted to commit so far. I don't know why. A senator agrees with me about this, but I would still like to ask him to review it with us if he believes that this might be the reason, that it was the very way that men were supposed to take this case through, because of the fact that men wanted to prevent the events that happened, namely... The fourth energy package, the cable in the backyard, and other estimates of complacency, would be faced by members of Congress and the public before this is approved. I'd like to pray. A senator to explain this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u246	A respectable president. It is clear, however, that if a discussion of the matter had run out as suggested, i.e. By the end of the last week, when members of the Parliament were allowed to speak into the night, discussion and vote would have been involved when the fourth pack of energy was approved by the Council of Ministers of the Council of the European Parliament. I don't know if it was a special objective, but I admit that in my previous answer, I forgot a point that is no small detail in this matter, a subject that is, of course, to be considered, i.e. This approved fourth energy package and how it plays with our current third energy package, when it is expected that the fourth energy pack will be presented with a summary of one of its objectives to expand and promote the authority of the ACER to which it will be transferred. This is really the cause of these governmental concerns that many are deeply concerned about. Of course, there are more views on this matter than on the administrative issues. But now there is an approved Council of Ministers for the Council of Ministers of the European Parliament that puts the matter in quite another context. Of course, just one member of the Senate has expressed himself as being irrelevant, and it was the chairman of the projection. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u247	Mr. President. I think that's where the dog's buried. I think that the men intended to take the case through, especially because the next sure thing is that the members of the management team who had doubts about their involvement in this unfortunate situation were put to work by waving in front of the warnings that would prove hopeless. I believe that this was a delay in the administrative sector and that men wanted to ensure that the knowledge of the prevention was fruitless - men wanted to prevent this knowledge from appearing to those members of the council who were skeptical and even opposed to ensure that it could be settled in a way that the government had decided to do. I think we're gonna do what we're gonna do. A senator may agree on this, but I would also like to mention that it seems that there was a huge amount of time spent fighting the team together as it is and getting people to step in the rhythms. At the same time, people have prefigured presenting the true contents of this energy package, which now comes through in opposition to the majority of the nation. Now I'd like to get an opinion. A senator's explanation of whether this could be one of the reasons why men have tried to commit this, as they do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u248	A respectable president. When given in the way here, some things go through the mind. I want to believe it and make it so that once men have gone along the way to accept this course as a paradox, i.e. That's a good idea, and I'm assuming the same thing by the top. Ministers of foreign affairs and all his men have thought this was the way they could do it. But then, when the situation has become so, there is no need for someone to look for a way to take the case back to the table, in some way that it might be handled properly by members of the council. I think it is quite certain that it is not just members of the Central Party who believe that a great deal of prejudice is presented and how defences are built in it, i.e. in relation to this alleged warning. Sometimes in life, if things seem too good to be true, they are, and I think we're finding ourselves in that situation right now, and somehow we need to find a way out of that situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u249	The person standing here does not have long experience in the matter of Congress, but he does not remember that a congregation meeting had lasted as long as it was now. Without specifically complaining about it, I'd like to ask the highest. President how long he intends to continue this meeting. I also want to know if he intends to have a meeting tomorrow, the rising day. I wanted to know before going further.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u250	The answer is that the conference today will be in line with what was discussed on Monday with the chairman of Congress. There won't be much meeting today. Then the possibility of having a brief meeting was discussed if he could be used for votes and cover 3. paint, but also report that there would be a normal pause before the start of a kitchen day, as is usual. The answer is that it will not continue long after the day, but something will be found for a while. Tomorrow we will not be meeting, but at 9:30 p.m. Friday morning we will have another meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u251	A respectable president. Just to make a decision that is similar: It may be understood that the president intends to intervene, i.e. votes or anything like that, before the meeting ends today? It was certainly discussed at a council meeting, and we would, as a matter of fact, rejoice. Or is the intention to keep the second session on the schedule until a meeting is postponed so that you can go home and flush yourself and change a shirt for kitchen-day talks? It would be interesting to have a president's answer to that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u252	Yeah, I'm sure it's working. There's nothing to vote on, there's no other cases ready to go because there's no other subject that's been established for a very different week than the second one. the part on the program that is still on. Having another meeting doesn't mean anything. Therefore, this discussion will continue until a meeting is terminated and will be done so that a good rest will be provided to prepare for a kitchen day tonight. The situation is that this second issue has an extension record. the suggestion that has stood for 130 hours or so in progress is three speakers, all having five minutes of public speaking so that it would take us 15 minutes to complete the discussion. If there was an interest in joining them to complete this discussion, it would take 15 minutes, even though these three members fully prepared their hearing. While the situation has been over the night, the president might as well have intended for it to be completed in the next 10, 15 or 20 minutes because it has been the time of the speaker's recording. But we know that such things have not worked out since then. It is still the will of the president and the determination to try to reach the point that this discussion can be done in a natural way. Therefore, efforts are made and found. That is why they are directed to members of Congress, and they challenge them to do their part so that we can get back on the normal Senate work. The president doesn't think it's too much, so I'd thought I'd keep at least one. the discussion continues.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u253	Mr. President. In view of what's being said here, I'd like to inform the President that the person standing here will not be attending a meeting tonight at 7:30 will continue a long meeting here but will concentrate on preparing for Friday's meeting, which he expects to stand for a long time. I don't think senators are going to give normal notices to prepare for a meeting on a kitchen day, even for those there to present a case. I wanted the President to know that I will not be attending this meeting tonight if this meeting continues for a long time so that there will not be enough time to prepare for the evening meeting, but the person standing here will concentrate on preparing for Friday's meeting. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u254	It breaks the heart of a president. A senator doesn't intend to come to a kitchen-day discussion tonight. But the President admits correctly. A senator to hire it himself, as well as his place of the night. Hv. Just as members of Congress are determined to continue this discussion, a senator is quick to do so. No one forces them to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u255	V.E.G. President. This discussion is remarkable, but now I'm going to give a talk. There's no energy policy in Iceland, it's clear to everyone, and it's been written on articles and news. It is quite remarkable that people have not seen reason to enter the discussion with me and the middle class to discuss that very point. I'm going to start by asking myself, " Am I going to ask myself, " Am I not involved in selling energy to countries with sea cables? ' It may be true that the warnings do not directly touch a pack of energy, but once we've come together in this European energy market, if they are found, if they're involved and thus connected to the fixing of the sea cable. A cable is a costly and risky project, but it has not stopped investors from saving money. We're talking about a huge amount of money, and we've been here every once in the night to mention an article published in the Sunday Times, where investors present themselves ready to place a sea cable, and is ready to finance it. The only thing that stands out in this regard is the lack of label from the British government to do so. Let's assume the guards are in charge. Then neither do we know how long they'll last. It has been said in our discussion that it is Generalis to decide whether to put a sea cable here, I'm even talking about a future council. People have said, though, that they hope that they will not. I think we're way past the time when we can discuss the matter with hope, we have to set up real legal warnings so that everyone is on the same page and that especially with those who are already in the starting room, such as these British investors, who seem to consider it a law that will be possible to engulf the cables. We know that if the cables are placed here, we will be paying a considerable price for the resulting loss of energy, and it will, of course, increase electricity prices. Not to be overlooked is the fact that if we need to increase our efficiency, it will become quite difficult for us to do so. And the other thing is that it's amazing that we, on the watch of the left green, are generally discussing increasing private and market access to the energy resource. I believe that governments in general are aware of the consequences such a projection can have on Iceland's nature and resources and that we will lose our own right to the resource. In this regard, I would like to remind once again that there is a bill on a resource problem now in government consultation. It is possible that the energy produced here will be sold to foreign countries and bought from contaminated industry there, even here. There, the government will have nothing to say. Jobs will be at stake. In any case, the question is, Do we really need to wonder whether any work here will be involved? Projects started are also in danger. Farming and gardening are harder to meet, which has already called attention to the fact that these work is already in session, hardly improving the quality of putting further signals on that industry. It is also clear that the EU-Wests are waiting to enter the government so that we can be fully included in the European Union. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u256	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this speech. It was time for Icelandic energy resources to be spoken of here for the market of Iceland's resources, resources. It is to let foreigners to the table with self - determination rights. I think it's true that this opinion comes out once, so everyone understands it. There are some legal reasons why the decision to accept this synonym is not to be heard, i.e. To this end, a power supply that is hardly successful in a constitution. It all seems to indicate that this will be done by those who claim to be a permanent waste, but of course you still believe in people's common sense, even though the religion fails with each passing hour. So I am happy that I am. A senator would present this talk, and I would like to ask him why. A senator whether she thinks that's exactly the reason, i.e. that foreigners are now to be released in the Icelandian energy supply, may be an explanation for the forced execution of this matter through the council in a way that has been carried out and so badly lived.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u257	V.E.G. President. Yeah, yeah, yeah. paritaprevir The village of Sæmundsson, I'm sure there will be foreign people who want to take advantage of it, I'd like to use that word, the resources of the country. There is no doubt in my mind, and if we are going to try to prevent it, it will be appealing to us to some sort of break of deal, obviously. Once again, we're reiterate here that we want the three energy package to be placed before the joint EEA committee to ensure legal notice on what would identify Iceland's special status. Then I'm not just saying that it's written as legally predicted that the country is an island, there must be something more under it. I'd also like to remind you of the money-book transfer of Arnar Þór Jónsson, the state attorney who last night said it was absolutely clear that if we don't think our turn and bring things in correctly, we'll be suing Iceland. It should be clear that such a matter is in progress in Norway, which aims to have the warnings given unrecognised, and there is a view that they have not introduced three packs of energy legally. Surely we will learn from that experience and take the lead in doing things right.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u258	Mr. President. That's exactly the way it is. A senator, that this isn't doing things right, and that's why we're going into the future, there won't be a change. It is remarkable that having people tear down parts of Congress, they feel that they do not have to listen to advice. Then I'm not talking about advice from their opponents on the case but about the most qualified and skilled specialists in the country. Such ones cannot help, but they take counsel from foolish men, who do not accept the guidance of the best in matters such as these. As we know, they are worse as more people come together. It is almost certain that this case will be approved, as it is now and unchanged, with consequences that will be unrepeatable. I'd like to pray. A senator will consider what she will do if it is adopted in the way it appears to be. What does this mean for the nation's survival? What does this mean for those who will inherit land? What does this mean for the rule of the Icelanders over their energy resources? Will this mean that foreigners will come here and give us a long nose and act in harmony with their will?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u259	At the beginning of a meeting, the president wants to report that at the meeting of the prime committee yesterday, it was agreed that the 149th legislature will be decommissioned at the end of the kitchen day tomorrow. According to the Work Programme, Congress work could be completed in the middle of the next week, but now it seems clear that it will not. Meetings will now be announced day by day, yet they will try to have the expectation of what is possible. That is how a meeting will be visited. Friday, and it will begin at 0500 hours. 9:30. In these last days and weeks, committees have done very well, and they have mentioned a great number of subjects that are now under discussion. Today's conference program is thus designed to form 32 seminars, proposals, and bills ready for discussion and payment. This week's committee is set aside for a number of cases, and it becomes clear that there will be a great number of cases on the back of the program from day to day. During the past few days, a discussion of one matter of Congress has taken over all the work being done here at the General Assembly. Discussion over 100 hours has now lasted, and one group has spoken for over 90 hours on this matter. The president has previously expressed his opinion, and since then, it was extremely desirable to conclude this discussion so that a discussion of other matters to wait for, and before any further interference occurs in the work of the Parliament these spring days, and further damage will result. Therefore, the President again challenges the members of the Central Party to consider whether 90 hours of room is needed, and although a few more were unable to promote his position so that the council can take a stand on the issue in the manner that our rules of play and the ultimate value, i.e. to vote for the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u260	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much. That's exactly this scene we would need to get definitive analysis of, that of the resources, and who will have water rights and so on. It has not been made so that we can take a stand for it. Speaking of the consequences for future generations, it is absolutely clear that electricity prices will rise, but in this country pure energy will be produced by means of sea cables to Europe, and not only by means of this, jobs will also be able to move there because the industry will be sufficient to keep the energy here clean and then they can be transferred to Europe, where they can even be set up as similar factories as we have here today. It is often even paid less. So there are a number of factors in all of these, and so we need to examine what will follow in the water. It's absolutely clear that investors who want to put down these cables will not hesitate to sue us, it's at stake, huge sums of money. I have no doubt that they will not hesitate to do so. I hope I put all the questions in my hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u261	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagle Daughter for the speech. She came in many places, but there is one thing I wanted to stop and take her into account by her attitude. It is only to see that it has been announced by the Þorsteinn of Pálsson's son, who is a ideologies, which appears to be a group that has remained on its political program that Iceland operates in the European Union - indeed another group here, the body that seems to be a similar situation -- it is to see in its article that appeared on the Web site Circle Road and is dated May 28th, to agree with the current case, the third energy wave, is the road and almost as hard as turning toward the whole continental centre of Iceland. Pálsson's stone renders it in his article, with the permission of a president, while men accept the prince's authority in this matter, they are in effect acknowledging the prince's position as a full part of the European Union, being built on the ◯. It clearly shows what is happening here, a full involvement in the European Union, and with the same people within a few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u262	It is suggested by the president that a meeting meeting can be held longer today than the Senate dictates, and it will be considered in the absence of objections.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u263	Mr. President. In the news of the past week, there was a debate in the local and foreign media that it was a reason to change our language when talking about man - made warming and to stop using terms such as climate change, which seem to be somewhat out - of - date and simply too mild to describe reality, which is really a human catastrophe. Member States in Iceland, to form Land Protection, have encouraged these changes in their country and have already adopted some of the media here, which is good. I suggest what. Councilmen do the same thing that changes our language here in the Hall of Congress in discussions about man - made warming of the earth. Of course, this does not change everything in itself, but it is important that we use correct and vivid words in each discussion. In this context, however, recent reports raise concern for the future, while the U.S. president seems to take increasing steps in his denial of global disaster, first by drawing the United States out of the Paris Convention and so recently by refusing to sign and thus preventing the joint declaration of the Arctic Council because it spoke of the effects of disaster on the north. Similarly, the way youths around the world have joined in protesting the inactions of the government gives rise to optimism. We're supposed to listen to young people. The Group of Group members has proposed a green community treaty that will take over all the social activities of society. But we need to stick together to save the earth, and even if we are a small nation, we have responsibilities. We need to set the goal higher and take greater steps, faster than we previously expected. Words have everything to do with everything, and words can really change everything.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u264	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir IsleÓlafur Ísleifsson failure to ask questions. Just that European groups here at the council were particularly pleased with the induction of the third energy package should have raised the governments to know that something was wrong. It is simply unlikely that the classes all of which are supposed to be opposers in the European Union should now be allowed one thing after another throughout the council. I mentioned earlier this morning the protection issue that we had for our last assembly. It took us all 13 days to put it through the council. It wasn't a small thing, it was a giant case, but it almost went through silent and silent. It is reasonable to assume that the same is true of most of the types that we receive. I have no doubt that all of them are involved in somehow getting us into the European Union. I think it's really weird that the government groups didn't wake up to life with just the scene that seems to be there, no matter what group we're talking about. Last of all, we were talking about unheated meat, which is one factor, and then there are other issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u265	A respectable president. This morning's Office reports a very interesting fact that immigrants in the Icelandic labour market have reached nearly 40,000. During the past 15 years, they have grown dramatically and are now numbering almost a fifth of the Icelandic labour market. It is not surprising, in itself, that in recent years, immigrants have endured much of the economic situation we have experienced. It's a pleasure to see these numbers, and it's also very pleasant to see that this is a global trend, so we see immigrants living under a growing part of the land around us. This underscores the importance of immigrants for the Icelandic economy, their priceless contribution to our economic advancement, and just how important it is to care for immigrants, to provide the children of immigrants with a good and powerful education, especially in the Icelandic language, but not to forget their own mother tongue. It is also interesting to observe when this is associated with the discussion that has been discussed here for a very long time, about the challenges of the aging nation and the age of the nation. in the discussion that the workforce ratio against the proportion of retired people is becoming substantially fewer. As a result, even countertemporaneous measures such as increasing pensions and so on are needed, and of course, greater challenges will be involved in meeting the country's growing health costs. This trend underscores the fact that this is not a inevitable reality. In fact, over the past few years, the ratio of activity against the proportion of retirement has changed little, precisely because of the growing number of immigrants in the Icelandic labour market, who truly live up to the country's improved standard of living of great goods. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u266	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. It is as if these potential games of land between Iceland are going into the European Union, the same European Union, and today they are dealing with a great and obvious internal problem, which has described that they do not accept new Member States' applications, which puts all the stones in the way of the British world, when they have decided to leave the party, the same European Union, and have almost taken away their freedom and state of state, and have made some kind of debt for European banks. As the article of the Þorsteinn of Pálsson, the apostle Paul's son Simon's article, is naturally announced, so the mind will be turned, and now will be blown into the hatches of the army. The point is that the road is being run in that direction by a government led by the left movement ◯ green supply and the participation of the Independence Party and the forward party. In other words, the Þorsteinn of Pálsson is explaining to his readers that it is the work of a government under the leadership of the left green with the involvement of these two classes, which are breaking that path so that it will not be returned, as they hopefully hope. I'm looking for some kind of attitude. A senator in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u267	A respectable president. It reaches wide, the interest in northern affairs, as was killed in the public address yesterday. Earlier this month, two major and international conferences were held in the Chinese large city of Shanghai. A 7th - time Norwegian - Chinese Arctic conference followed by the city's ringboard. Special emphasis was placed on the Chinese'influence and plans in this increasingly important world area. A group of people from various sectors had arrived in Shanghai from Iceland, including The one represented by the Western Council. Much was discussed with the so - called new silk route, the Polish silk way, also known as Belti and Course, a vast Chinese program that has a better connection with other parts of the world. What's turning north is the route that may open up as a result of global warming around the Arctic, from East Asia along the coast of Russia, and to us in the North Atlantic. It was explained at both conferences that the Chinese are very focused on these plans and that they do not actually sit hand in hand. A respectable president. It is very important for the Western countries to observe the trends in the Arctic region, where an ever - increasing shipping trip by the new silk route could be a source of cooling in many areas. This can become the source of various tools and also lead to problems and issues of opinion. Evolution is fast, and it is necessary for us to monitor closely, endeavor to influence. It is clear that a changed situation could appear here in our area until no other suspect. As an observer to the Council of North Pole, we do not intend to sit quietly in the Western Council or allow things to surprise us. Under the common interest of all of us in the Western area, where the cooperation between the three countries is key.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u268	V.E.G. President. It is, however, Iceland in the European Union that has huge internal problems, but the key they see in our affairs is pure energy. That is exactly the key they need to fulfill their goals. Let us remember that they produce so - called unclean energy by 70% and therefore only have to repair that ratio. Our energy is useful, and that is why civil unrest is also common in Norwegian politics. The Norwegian people also have that pure energy. There we are with the European right - handed class in the lead. There's no question to me that Bgreit plays a big part in all this. It's all hanging out. I still haven't put it in some big picture in my head, but I feel like every piece of paper has a bearing on that whole picture, i.e. that the European Union intends to make sure that everything will be one market and therefore all will be expected. Then, of course, I mean, with an increase in electrical prices in the country. Hv. A senator named the Greek nation, who is a debtor. There's no way to look, that's known. To finish my case, I'd like to say that it is our spontaneous demand to know what is contained in the fourth energy package. We're talking about the third energy package and it would have been good for us, I wish people had known it sooner, to know what was happening after even the first energy package to know where it was headed. [[The president calls.]] We now see where we're going, and it's in the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u269	Mr. President. It was a pleasure to have an opportunity to be at Akureyri Airport last night when the Dutch Travel Office flew in from Rotterdam to Akureyri. That was the first flight of 16 this summer. At a meeting at the Air Force Base at Akureyri Airport yesterday morning, the manager of Voitt Travel also announced that sales will begin on the road to the travel agency for the next winter. This is a series of trips beginning February 14 next year and starting in March, a total of eight trips. Then they'll fly between Amsterdam and Akureyri. It's gonna be exciting to keep track of that project. There's a good addition to Superbreak's winter flight in the last two winters. This is a good and important addition that will strengthen the Arctic tourism and, in fact, on a much larger region. It is a well - known fact that the Dutch are among the nations that spend most of their time in Iceland on their visits to the country and are traveling around the country. Here, too, you should mention the importance of Air 66N in all this process. He works under the hat Marketing Office of Northern America. The work of the mall has been very successful in the last year, and it is vital that the powerful work being done by Air 66N continues. I'd like to use this opportunity to commend the staff of the Northland Marketing Office for this milestone and the great and good work being done by the market agencies. Thanks for a good job.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u270	A respectable president. May 4th. I was at a national survival meeting, a national network of motorists, and with the permission of a president, I'm going to read up an opinion on the matter of choice: A discovery of survival, the national network of motorists, held May 4, 2018, at the International Assembly of all Icelanders, is already cutting off a cent across the centennial declines and going to their own law with reference to the 69th C.E., but on this return, as is the case with the election of the Generals themselves. Newly released biographies value for everyone, including disability. ... The organization, however, reminds us that it is yet another humiliation for the government to have to wait repeatedly for its dresser improvement, months after pay and indexes have increased their income in other groups of society... In order for micro-energy pensioners to improve both their quality and the postmortems to return to the labour market, present replacements are decommissioned, and thus a crown to a dollar impairment, the key in this relationship. The great day of horror ahead is the day of terror, of terror of people living in the pensions of deserts and seniors, of terror, when insurance agencies send out their savings, of delinquency of people living at 22,000 dollars. in a month or below, and reduces it so that it doesn't have food, it doesn't impair, this year, not last year, but the next year too. They are people who have done nothing but get sick, get hurt, or get older, people who have turned back to society, older citizens, and desperate people who have a requirement to stop kicking them financially with incredible violence, so they cannot pay the natural cost of home living.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u271	The president now wishes to inform us that a meeting has been held during the course of 24 hours and, in fact, a few minutes more. Apart from lunch breaks and breaks due to other meetings yesterday and last night, an active meeting time has been about 22 hours, which has been said to have yet another attempt to be made by long meeting to empty the rest of the world. about the 2nd issue. That discussion has now lasted over 132 hours. Of these, members of the Central Party have been talking for over 110 hours. The second issue of the matter answers. magazines are now 2,675 and have taken 85 hours in the move, and worse, though this has been a small matter at the beginning of the discussion. This has been a controversy of the matter, and it has been realized that the development in this respect is in great trouble and in no way in the spirit of the man expected by the council when protesters were introduced into the terms of Congress. The relentless speech masquerade, which the president can no longer call a proper name, which has been created here by the council. Tens of other members of Congress, many of which are important and of national interests or of important interests of markets or employment, are being fully developed and ready for discussion and payment. The proposals and challenges of the president, vice presidents, and other council members to members of the Central Party as well as conversations with the heads and members of the Central Party that they now give up their persistent sermons have failed. It is most disappointing for the president, and it is likely that he will be fully pressured to appeal to reasonableness, to appeal to responsibility, or to ask for help, and to show respect for the basic principles of democracy and Congress in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u272	A respectable president. The great day of judgment. The insurance agency has sent out his paperwork. We have heard of the fact that poor people cannot wait for justice, the highest. In fact, one and a half years ago the prime minister said that poor people could no longer wait for justice. But that is exactly what poor people are doing now, and now, an assembly of spoken languages at the National Assembly of Iceland, is being arranged for us to have a very large number of good cases here. Let me mention some of these fine things. I'm going to give you a cent across the crown that Piratars have, and we're getting out of the committee. I'm going to give you abduction of the decrease in employment income of the elderly, a case that is coming out of the welfare committee now, and we're thinking of coming into Congress. I'm going to give you 17 major cases of the United States to cover the well - being and better interests of children. I could go on for a long time, but I have the highest. The president noted that the committees have cases waiting to be treated for Congress while the Allied Council, the highest public speaker, is held hostage in the name of democracy. I'd like to state, sir, that it was I who started talking about the induction of the third energy package in this speaker's package. I've always been opposed to the induction of this third energy package. I've been talking about how opposed I am to this third pack of energy, but it doesn't change the fact that there must be a time when you know when your mind is coming, and you stop punching your head in the wall and sliding yourself out on your own day and into a monologue at the High General Assembly of the Icelanders. I challenge all of us. In the name of democracy, it does not mean to let little less things behave as we have suffered in this time of the end. In fact, I have not experienced any feeling other than violence and discouragement over not being able to do the work that I was going to do. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u273	President. It is the president of the council that conducts the program for the council. It has been repeated on the central Party that he is free to represent a case that, as the president said, is for the national benefit and is prepared to discuss. This has been done many times, but it has not been accepted. It's not the responsibility of the Central Party or his members. The Council is not in the hands of the Central Party or other members of Congress at the General Assembly, that is, in the hands of the President of the Council, and he is the chairman of the program. He's the one who sets up a meeting and decides to set up a meeting. He is the one who decides which issues are considered, and I restate on the fact that more than once and more than twice, the middle class is willing to consider other issues for this matter that have been discussed for a long time in the past.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u274	You're right next door. A member of the council who has the program and is not available to the Central Party, although the Central Party repeatedly requested that it be not only the schedule of the days taken for weeks but also the schedule of the council. [[Up front.]] This does not mean that much less of the members of Congress are given full control.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u275	Mr. President. Civil democracy contains a few pieces of burden: greater power, fairness to my parts, responsibility, and freedom of speech, which aim to be effective in the work covered by democracy. That's what everybody wants to know. Without the majority, success cannot be achieved, and therefore rules for more share, e.g. A council or a local government can serve the community by suing matters after a professional and political discussion. That's what everybody wants to know. Being reasonable to my parts includes being honest with others. in that he achieves his viewpoints and even shapes matters, depending on political landscapes in the synagogue. In contrast, a fair and informed memory tries to respect the truth that there is always a time when there is a time when there is a time when there is no argument, even though there is no bridge between mine and more parts. That's what everybody wants to know. Freedom of speech comes with the responsibility of not abusing the bediest of conferences, not abusing sources that are not even the rights, such as the authority to resist, only to extend conversation with partners, as in any other language club, more violent and alone. The responsibility of discussions is to make time for real reasoning and freedom to make use of it until a picture of opposing viewpoints or solidarities has been established. Disregarding repetitions and extensions are the opposite of civil democracy. That's what everybody wants to know. The series of plays that will now be witnessed by the international community that, after the last days of this council and in the media, with all the major evidence coming up more and more with the farsacks, both tragic and grueling but as a result, it seriously prevents the democratic ideal Assembly from working in a natural and efficient way. Then I ask, "Who wants to know?" It's the doubt. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u276	Mr. President. Less than a year ago, we formed members of the Parliament who were gathered at a special meeting at the House of Children's Cultures on the grounds of the anniversary of Iceland's sovereignty. The fund has now been funded for the first time, but its role is to finance and support a wide variety of child culture activities, with emphasis on creation, art, and active involvement of children in culture. Among the sponsors are cultural celebrations of children and young people in the East, U.S. Hospitalists who will visit children at the Children's Hospital of the Ring's Children and Icelandic studies, with arts for young multilingual children in the West. Artists, music celebrations, playmates, and librarys were also strengthened, and so on. It is a joy to see the wide variety of projects assigned to the fund and fewer people who did not want to do so. It is clear that when it comes to the affairs of children, the imagination of the Icelanders prevails, so it is time to celebrate. It is also a joy that the Council will welcome young people and attend a meeting of young people. This too will be the celebration of our anniversary of Iceland's 75th birthday, June 17, U.S.A. A respectable president. It is old that children are the future. That's the way it is, but, of course, they are the same today. How important it is that young ones share in the community! Not all children have to be interested in art, culture, or politics, but it is important to create a field for those who are interested in learning about it, and it is good and important that two holiday days be especially used. As members of the High Council, we need to remember this when discussing matters and topics and setting social laws and guidelines not only children and young people but also taking them to the table for decision making.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u277	A respectable president. Energy issues have been very much discussed recently at the General Assembly, and they are good because energy issues are extremely important. If we handle this important resource properly, it can be an even greater foundation of well - being in Icelandic society than it is today, such as the fishing route, tourism, and other important matters. Therefore, it is important to take the discussion, just the question, How do we put the focus in our discussion, where do we have it, and what we talk about? We have great and major challenges in the energy issues we need to discuss, which is the distribution of electricity, which may not have worked well enough, and then the reconciliation search to be carried out by a frame plan has not completely carried out. We are now working on energy policy, and it is extremely important that this policy be achieved and that we can shape a powerful and important policy in our resource efficiency, because energy issues are the largest and most important solution in climate. All Europe is working on that now, and indeed the whole world, and investing and so on. We need to discuss these two big issues here, but not just focus on the small things or discuss these matters on the wrong grounds. We're here to discuss what's important about this, i.e. that important resource efficiency in cleaner energy is most important in climate. We have many opportunities here on a country that we have to start using, such as electricalisation rejects, distribution of electricity so that we can fuel energy exchanges across the country and hydrogen productions, and other things that can be sold to cruises and others on cruises and the like. There we will discuss the discussion and discuss the important things.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u278	A respectable president. I care about the so-called respect of the Generals these days. A very long discussion of a three - pack energy talk at the council has now taken place, and that is what is sometimes called a filament. When we take the discussion about filancy, it is common for someone to use it as a kind of foul language but to ignore the fact that a filibuster is a weakness of the lower part. I participated in seminars myself during the last term, did so officially, and was not hiding it. I did it because I thought I was forced, because it was because I had a lot less experience at the council and because I was in smaller parts, though with a percentage, I had 0% of power. So when 60% of the council joins, they have 100% power. If we want to promote the respect of the Generalis, it is not enough to point out just what some political opposers are doing wrong in their own eyes. We also need to ask ourselves, " How can I improve the work of Congress? ' It's not just that we treat one another decently, certainly that too, but not just that. It is also about the processes and the construction of the facility so that people do not experience in such smaller parts and so powerless as elected representatives that they are forced to resort to such tactics as a language code and other such things that are sometimes called contingency, perhaps fully understood during the years, which are sometimes referred to as contingency. If we want to adjust the esteem of the Generals, we need to consider not just how we would behave if we were some other senator, but how we can behave today in the situation we are in today. It's not just about the smaller portion. On the contrary, much more is involved because he is in charge. That's over 50% of the power. That's where the responsibility lies. It is important that voters require that this more things show responsibility in action and the power of my share, even if it is contrary to political interests. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u279	A respectable president. News reports are that a new Western island was released in Poland and returned soon. The first one arrived in December 1959. Of course, there is high expectations when the new ferry, the first power ferry, the first large electrical vessel in Iceland, arrives at home in the middle of the next month. There is also high hopes that the new ferry will increase the use of land islands, which has been naturally far from what was expected of them. It is important that we keep track of how new processes will enhance their uses and whether the combination of the seaport and its trade will add transportation to the Western Islands. I've talked to the highest. Special attention will be paid to this monitoring and immediate intervention will be made if this does not work as we expect. Of course, all the good - byees of a new ship come. Captains have told me that this new ship's governance is great and good. A screw mechanism has been prepared so that the ship does not traw much, in fact just a very small one, and the structure on the ship is exemplary. This transport process replaces the old warlock, which has been sailing for 27 years and has played a good role in the Western Islands on sailing for the island of Aegeans. There will be great regret in the beautiful, large ship that has served the island. He will continue for a time in the Western Islands if anything goes wrong, but in the future we will better see what his share in transport will be in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u280	Mr. President. The waiting period after the diagnosis of ADHD in children is about one year. There are now over 300 children at the waiting list at the Development and Behavior Center and a long wait for the service recommended after diagnosis. Development and behavioral centres include to perform an analysis of children with ADHD up to 18 years of age. The future of the station's operation has remained uncertain and has not had enough money or human resources to carry out and maintain services in accordance with needs, such as services to children in the country. More than a quarter of the reference comes from there. Mental - health services with children should take priority and be put in top priority on government plans. How important it is to avoid waiting for a service to produce severe complications! According to a 2016 National Review Report, mental - health services with children and adolescents may be divided into three stages, basal, and special care. Each level of service is designed to handle a particular group of individuals who suffer from varying degrees of mental health problems and who require different measures. It also states that lack of clear guidance, efficient organization, and overall policy seems to have led to the existence of groups of young people without clear advice. The role of a second service, such as the Development and Behavioral Institute, has not been defined here, despite the fact that three years have been since the Report of the Kingdom Review, where these limitations were pointed out. This indifference by the government is a disgrace to these essential services to children and their families. This is a service that should be the most important thing in life.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u281	Mr. President. During the last fall, I was a perfunctory at the General Assembly in a very useful discussion of the well - being of boys and young men, who seem to be mad. There are some signs and signs that have been on this problem for a long time. I mentioned in my discussion that teenage youths have much more difficulty reading than girls have at the end of high school. Incorporated boys in high school drop 30% of them out of school, while girls' ratios 22%. Three or four times as many boys as girls are diagnosed with autism. The share of students in 20 years is 62% among men while the ratio in young women at this age is 86%. 36% university students are men, the other 64% are women. Only 30% of those who finish high school master's degrees are men. Repeat, 30%. The percentage of young people who are not at school or at work is much higher in men than in women. 78% of those who died of an accident one year and were under 35 years of age were men, 78% were young men. A lot more men take their own lives than women do. 885922% of those who receive unidentified judgments are men. In the case of custody by another parent after divorce or separation in 2011, one father and 58 mothers were taken into custody. What are the reasons for all this, Mr. President? Is this the case with physical laws? Do not boys and young men need some action to assist? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u282	A respectable president. Now, we're going to resume financial policy review if all news of that is correct. The law on public finances speaks of changing financial policy if, by permission of the president, the principles behind financial policies are missed or predicted to be broken by economic failures, national years, or other circumstances, which are impossible to deal with with with the available resources. A report on official financial law lists other things, such as serious problems in the workplace, perhaps involving the fall of Waow air or the harrowing failure, inaccessible contractures, natural disasters, or national threat. However, these explanations must always be related to economic and national problems. It doesn't explain what it means. If there is to be a revised financial policy now, an explanation is being made, and it follows whether these listed conditions are considered to be economic failures or national years. There is a set of precedents which I think are critical. The financial adviser is to give a review of that argument. I also look forward to seeing that review, whether the evidence is based on the basis. We have exciting times ahead of us in regard to financial policies and financial programmes. What I'm most impressed with is that it is predictable that there will be significant changes in financial plans, many billions, tens of billions. Forty billion, or something like that, has been mentioned. These are changes just before we complete a financial program. No comments. I don't think we're going to get many visitors to cover these changes, although there'll probably be some impairment on both the income and the pay side over the rest that could cover some of them. I encourage the government to back up these changes very well, to call a guest if it is necessary for the changes beyond what is likely to be involved in a change in financial policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u283	V.E.G. President. In view of the last speaker's recommendation, what? paritaprevir Björn son Leví Gunnarsson, it is proper to note that changes in financial policies and financial plans need to be treated properly during the council. I now believe that many have been prepared for the discussion over the past few weeks that such adjustments would be necessary. It is only natural for them to be given normal hours in the budgetary and the following events at the council Hall. However, it will be a reminder that by means of a financial programme, each spring will be discussed and revised in each spring, as well as a financial hearing that begins on autumn days, the opportunity to discuss the state's budget is far greater than perhaps ever in the council before. If we look at the whole thing, I'd say that with this new arrangement, which has been a great deal of agreement to record, we have a financial and financial debate and a financial agenda going on almost every year, instead of being limited to two, three months in the fall, as it was before. This makes it possible for us to take into account the activities of the Parliament that it cannot be carried out so that it cannot be carried out indefinitely. It must be set by some frame, some restrictions, so that it can be handled at a reasonable time, although, of course, so that all views should be expressed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u284	V.E.G. President. 2nd. the third energy pack is now being held at the General Assembly. It seems to me that there are still plenty of questions left, and many of the questions are hardly answered, as it seems. A case like this, where huge interests exist, our future, and possibly custody of our own energy is a big question, and the question of whether the Senate arrangement violates a constitution must be answered. In recent years, there have not been many issues that have moved as much as the Icelanders. It has been a long time since the International Assembly was as against the nation as it seems to be today. Opinions say at least Unable to handle this. My memory says that this was the last time Icezave was being discussed at the General Assembly. Icelanders have so far stopped and have been prepared to discuss matters if there is any doubt that the Icelandic Constitution is at hand. It's about this and a lot of other things. I'd like to briefly review the situation of this council. Many people had doubts about the Senate arrangement when it came out. Of course, we in the Middle Ages were not alone at a council with doubts. That's for sure. However, when it became clear that the case could not be crammed in this way, an attempt was made to stop into a faulty Senate arrangement with a warning that seems to be unsatisfactory, and something is wrong where to find it was found. The speed of passing the case, which is certainly a question under whether a constitution is established and if a third energy package is thrown over Iceland's head, is incomprehensible. I remember to mention some of the doubting issues that have occurred before, but there are few too often references. The fact that this matter lies before the Council raises questions. What's the point? This is a directive that deals with the rights of ACER and establishes a checker that will monitor the Icelandic electrical market. If people are interested or think that there is a great need to strengthen the power market work here, there is no basis for this to be done. There's no need for a change in the EEA contract. As a form, the decision to move across the borders of energy is based on the Parliament's smell. This is true in Europe and where energy can be transported by a transboundary cable. This is not true of the Icelanders who do not have tools to connect with the energy supply of nations, but this equipment is all the same referred to as sea cable. We have access to European regulations by means of canals and railroads as best known. Why is this not the case when a European connection is not available? The discussion has included mainly two regulations, i.e. No. 713, for a new European institution, the European Commission's Co-operation of energy markets. Its acronym is often referred to in English, i.e. ACER. The other is a requirement for access to a cross-border electrical network and no. 714. As we have seen, detailed reports are available in this case. The analysis of Stefánsson's Motorsson and Friðrik Árni Friðriksson Hirst on the administrative matters, related to the government's campaign to the EU and EFTA due to the EU's third energy package, is a warning that the proposed program does not meet the rules of the constitution. They say that in the conclusion of their opinion it is not an example for such a power supply to national institutions on the basis of the EEA Convention. It is the conclusion of the authors'opinion that, as they put it, a great deal of doubt about whether or not the key to ESA will be played, according to Article 8. Regulation No. 713/2009, as planned for the EEA treaties under the decision of the joint committee on May 5, 2017, is included in the legal Constitution of the Republic of Iceland. The authors to the common administrative guidelines to be considered in these areas and specifically stated that the perspective on the EEA Convention, the cut-off of the lead, and its wide range is difficult in this relationship. Authors call attention to the position of the European Commission, ESA, against this ACER institution. As regards the EFTA State, it is assumed that the Agency can provide the authority given by the ACER in Regulation No. 713, including Legally binding decisions pertaining to cross-border structures. A basic element is in this context called a sea cable. As noted, ACER is expected to have a major impact on the content of such decisions, and ESA decisions should include: based on a decrease in ACER interval for ESAs. Telling the authors that such an arrangement will be poorly affected by the two support systems of the EEA Convention, which includes the guidelines considered in the evaluation of whether the office of government to the international institutions is included in the Constitution. The authors take note of the regulations given by the Regulation No. 714, previously spoken of 713, may raise comparable government opinions and ESAs to make legal binding decisions according to Article 8. Regulation No. 713. I'd like to call attention to the fact that the authors of the opinion, Stefán Stefánsson and Friðriksson Frideksson Hirst, take special care of D- force 1 mgr. Thirty-seven. The Directive, No. 72/2009, on this basis, it is related to a national organisation in the Member States to, and to implement, all relevant legal binding decisions [ACER] and the Commission, to be agreed on by the Member States and to the Member States, to conduct. The review of authors' regulations on Regulations 713 and 714 as well as the provision of Article 37 paragraph. Directive No. 72/2009 makes it very dangerous to accept the energy package. Even that might be viewed as demeanable. The authors, Stefán Már, and Friðrik Árni clearly state what happens if we do not accept the energy package. Here's a direct quote, with president's permission: However, Iceland has refused to lift the controlled warning, which leads to 103. gr. The EEA Convention would have to take it back up on the joint EEA committee and seek its release. This will be followed by a case that is equal to 102 C.E. The EEA Convention. ... The joint EEA committee shall seek to establish an agreement on a solution that may be accepted by the parties in order to withdraw the deadline at the first opportunity. V.E.G. President. The route provided by the authors of the opinion of the group includes is represented by the issue of the Central Party. It gives the constitution the benefit of the doubt. She's careful and able. This way, of course, should be ours. The government should retract the situation and refer it to a cohesion process in the field of the Common EEA Committee on the basis of the decision of the EEA agreement itself. It's not just natural, it's our job to do it, and so let Iceland's interests always come first. We need to take note of the warnings given in the ratings and act accordingly. The Constitution is to be interpreted and therefore in the favour of the sovereignty; it is under the oath that we generals have signed. The way the government and its cohesion are going to go by removing the governmently warning by agreeing to this synonym and implementing its national duties - in no way has it been demonstrated in the legal opinion that this way is possible. Recently, mainly in the media - and even in the General Assembly - it has been claimed that we, while warning the third energy package, are plutonium, isolationists, and even the EEA treaties. Only at the position of the EEA Convention, and generally agreements. The EEA Treaty has benefited us in many ways, and treaties are not made unless data sources are readily satisfied and both are favourable. Thus, the EEA Convention can be said to serve the interests of all its members. There is no reason to believe that the deal is upset, although we do not agree to change it. This is exactly what the change in Annex 4 of the EEA Convention is. This 25 - year - old contract would no doubt require a review of some kind, but it would, of course, have to be done in terms of the approval and survival of all its members. I'm afraid that he's upset is a panic attack. It is a panic for those who see nothing but the European Union and who are willing to sacrifice their soul to enter, in fact, in small steps, but whose limit is clear most of them. I would like to quote the article entitled The Chief Aðalsteinn J. Magnússon, biochemist and economist, in the May 16, last May, by permission of the president's article: Despite previous ideas and economic education, I have turned against a ◯2 fold increase in association with a joint EU market, i.e. Under the directives now under rule and order, unless it is totally on our terms. Why? A connection on grounds other than our soles could eventually lead us to a very limited government, where we become the rabbit in what is called rabbit and horse stew. The recipe is one rabbit and one horse. I don't like that cooking at all. In this regard, the author of the article explained that as a nation, we must take care of each step we take. Under no circumstances do we want to be powerless. In view of these and many other factors, we are obliged to reject the Congress resolution on the third energy package and refer the case to the joint EEA committee. Of course, for this we have full authority. We need to reveal our viewpoints. Until then, they have been maligned. I call attention to all who make strong comments. These include ASI, president of VR, the community organization, and many others as well as the polls show great opposition to this process. I would also like to call attention to the transpolitic organizations called our Orc. Within them are a large group of people who have made serious comments, including former ministers and members of Parliament. There are plenty of scenarios that we might face in front of the Senate arrangement. One is this one. In the third EU energy directive, i.e. A third energy package, stated that national governments belonging to the EU internal energy market are permitted to prevent links between countries. The European Union in 2007 decided to provide increased emphasis on cross-country between countries and to establish the EU energy agency, i.e. ACER. This is done by regulations in 2009, called the third energy package, and is still more clearly indicated by Regulation No. 347/2013, part of the fourth energy pack. Since the 1980's and 1990's, the EU faced challenging assignments, i.e. when Eastern Europe began to enter the EU Union. These countries were more and less involved in destroying all infrastructures, including their electrical capacity, whether it was the production or distribution of electricity. None of these apply to Iceland, who has developed their electronics with great power in all the streets since 1936 when the activations of the Sowga were taken into use. Thus, all EU electricity directives initially took into account the underdeveloped power markets that have been transferred in recent years to the predictable electricity depletion in Western Europe due to the requirement for bioenergy production in an eco-friendly manner. None of these factors apply to the Icelandic electricity market. These directives have never done anything for Icelandic consumers, except increase the cost by increasing the writing industry and the cost of electricity production, by law, to pay their owners, i.e. The nation, profited each year with a favorable electrical price. This was changed by induction of a two-pack of energy. Landing has prepared the sea cable to be repaired since 2011. First on your own, but today on the basis of the third energy package, i.e. ... afterhisinduction. The European Union's policy is that the entire energy sector is owned by a private member. The European Union is not as uncomfortable as any community business, public business. We should keep in mind that the EEA Convention has been constantly adapting to EU policies. So we must be careful. This is what I would like to stress that the proposal will be rejected and referred back and that she will be given a natural and reasonable treatment, and then the case will come back to us where both parties can agree with the process.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u285	V.E.G. President. Thank you. As we say, a senator is eager to hear a extensive talk. He came on quite a number of things, and I thought he was taking it up a little bit, how we've been facing it. Many questions have occurred recently and especially when we have reached a deeper point. These are questions that can be a bit complicated in such a way that there can be a number of consequences if we enter this EU energy law section; consequences in nature, employment, and environment; all sorts of foreign transactions; and basically all of Icelandic society; we can talk about families and businesses in this context. I'd like to ask you something. paritaprevir The Sigurður over Páll Jónsson, whether by means of his talk, he would have realized in some way the consequences of all of this may have been. Then I may especially consider Icelandic society in whole, family, business, and even how it is facing people all over the country. It's not just at some single corner of the country that this might have an impact. Rather, we need to look at it in the overall context.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u286	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagle Daughter for the counter-sponsored. I've noticed that now, after watching the news from time to time on my vacation, the discussion has deepened. There are factors that need to be developed, and the discussion has deepened at the time that has been discussed at the council. To answer that question, if this package is introduced, I will see to it that electricity is rising possibly or will reach safely. It has a natural impact on the homes and businesses of the country, and I don't like it. Electricity production has been in our hands. This is one of the cores of our Icelandic society, that we produce electricity with cleaner energy on our own terms. That's kind of the basic theme that the person standing here, and we who have been against this induction stand for continuation. We've been building an electrical security problem. Every four years, the synoptic odors work to improve national electrical exchange. Rather slowly than doing so on our own terms, we should continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u287	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much. If I understand why. Even though he was on vacation, a member of the Parliament has observed news reports. What has happened is that the discussion has certainly deepened, and the discussion has deepened, in fact, some of the ways that we can go. A national agreement is referred to as postponing the case until autumn, and it is said that we will have to wait at least until the Council is adopted in September 23. I've wondered if it's not a reliable opinion. A senator says that one of these ways is good. Then I wonder what he thinks is best to do now, what best to start. What would be our wish if we got something through and what possibilities are in the situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u288	V.E.G. President. Yes, it has often been testified that the terms of the agreement to refer the case to the joint EEC are a good way if there are any opinions, as in this occasion. I can see that we can use ourselves. It's at 102nd and 103th. The deal. Now and/or a national agreement too. But there's not so much to go on with this. The witness was given as the highest witness. In a recent interview, a professional minister said that there was nothing wrong with the fact that the matter was delayed to the fall, and I think that the responsible minister is still of that opinion to this day. Everyone seems to agree that the matter is not so private. But for some reason, they keep shoveling.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u289	A respectable president. We had this fine talk in the first round. how this synonym was about consumer protection, transparency, independent surveillance, energy security, and so on. Various claims have been made on this subject during the discussion and because I know why. A senator does not agree with anything but honestly answer me during the council and trust him to answer it clearly and clearly, I would like to ask him why. A senator whether he would be willing to reconsider his position in the event of the issue. On the other hand, there was a difference. The candidate was well aware of the procedure in monitoring for cross-border infrastructure, i.e. A cable, what it's like in the hands of ESAs, and you can get an opinion from the ACER. It was in the substance of the talk. But there was a quote. A senator in his speech I consider wrong. It is the quote: ◯ACER monitors the Icelandic electronic energy market. Based on the description of how ESAs are monitoring infrastructure above borders and not on the Icelandic electric market, isn't this claim wrong?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u290	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir To answer, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. The first question was review. What we've been calling out for is that these warnings will be visible, but we haven't seen them yet, so we don't really know what they're really talking about. It is also true that when each party is warned of the contract, both parties must sign for that warning rather than just one person, as it seems to be in this case, that he is in the regulations or somewhere in the synonym or anywhere else just then, as has been said, to a home bridge. Precautions are only transparent and useless if they are made only by one person and the other person does not sign. With regard to a statement about ACER, I can't really say that there is a statement. Rather, I was quoting from that article that I recall, in my speech, and I need to understand a little bit more about that question so that I can answer it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u291	A respectable president. It was quoted as follows: ◯ACER monitors the Icelandic electrical market. In a speech or two. The candidate was explained exactly how ESAs monitor infrastructures across borders but not with an Icelandic electrical market, so this conflicts with certain facts regarding how the text is proposed and what the electronic market is since. I didn't ask for the warning, but I find it very interesting. A senator claims that he had not seen warnings because a special Senate document has been in front of the Council since the beginning of April.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u292	V.E.G. President. I've seen a warning, but it's that legal side we're waiting for. For ACER and ESA, the ESA is above the ACER. Or the other way around? What's it like? [[Up front.]] It's the other way around, yeah, and I just have to admit that I'm not quite well enough in that legal issue. This is what I read and wrote down, and I trust those who put this on paper with full confidence that they speak the right thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u293	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. This will be the first speech ever. The senator of this discussion, and I look forward to hearing more of them in terms of their circumstances. A senator has already crossed over. It's very good to get such a point from, but I don't know if you can call it outside, but what. A senator has been, as he mentioned, observing the discussion from outside, and may be able to put things in perspective for us who have been discussing matters in this room. That's very welcome, and for that I want to thank you. Hv. A senator just mentioned an exception that Iceland has received from points that are not relevant here and that are called canals and railways. I would add, especially with this energy issue, that the Icelanders received just an exception from the natural gas package, both electricity and gas. Then one must ask: In view of the fact that we received an exception from geothermal directives or regulations, since there is no production or at least no natural gas sales from here and no link to these pathways, why would that not be appropriate for the electronics? Why shouldn't we be able to get an exception to the electricity in exactly the same way we have the natural gas as we do? What you fear is that if you simply anticipate a change, the land will be affected by a marine cable and the European Union will be able to access or access the renewable energy of the Icelanders. Takes it. A senator under these concerns, that the reason for this difference, the exception of natural gas instead of electricity, is that people can predict from here that electricity exports are taking place?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u294	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson for answering. Yeah, I totally agree with that, and they worry me. There was one of the first points that went into my mind when this case came up, that we have no cable, so we are not required to introduce this package. We have an exception, as was shown in the contrary to the senator, from natural gas because we have no connection. Similarly, railways and canals appeared. This is not relevant in Iceland, so this induction is unnecessary and we need to refer it back to the Committee, where the case will be taken up. Regarding having been absent and observed the discussion in the news, it is true that I managed to see this from a different side than that of standing here in a council hall. Then came this basic thought: What is our motive, and how are we doing in this regard? Is there any need, as indicated in my speech, that we, who have built up our electricity in Iceland on our own terms, must yield to power elsewhere in order to work on that issue? We are fully equipped to do so, and we have done so very well and organized since 1936, as shown in my speech. We can keep going. We are very early in these matters, and we need to be independent in the future of electricity production and electricity sales.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u295	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer I'm very comfortable with. Two more things I'd like to ask you. A senator in. On the one hand, industry's position in Iceland, but perhaps especially with regard to the ideals of what? Senator. There are places where industry is heavily relying on energy at competitive prices and is important for society at least As far as I'm concerned. What does that mean? A senator that would have for such communities if this industry lost its competitiveness and moved anywhere else? The other thing I'd like to ask you. A senator inside, if he has time to say: A senator did not agree with me, following the discussion, that what we are trying to do here is to produce a democratic will? We are not trying to promote the will of some councils. We're trying to promote the actual democratic will of the public in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u296	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. The question of how this affected the industry - he referred to the district in which I come from, much of which is industry, the natural thing all over the world. For an enterprise to be able to walk, costs need to be within the limit that the company can walk, and if electricity is rising at its price, offering less money elsewhere, there must be an alternative. I have, for example. You're worried about it. We are building up in the country, and this needs to be so that the cost and cost of business can go. The national democratic will, in my opinion, is that we are independent in this matter, as we have done in other matters. [[The president calls.]] We were on the interstate here before, and then I was proud to watch, outside, and we can do that on this matter too, because it's a little bit of a weekend. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u297	Mr. President. I'm going to discuss the origin of electrical energy related to the EU's third energy directive pretty much, like I'm getting closer to the speech. A law on the origin of electricity responsibilities was set in 2008, and as often before, they were a part of a process of induction by European Commission Directives, in particular by the European Union Directive No. 77/2001. The audience to information is the source of the power of electrical energy - what really is meant by it? These are some form of witnessing published on the market. The European Union, with its directives, has tried to produce signs of the purity of electricity, is rooted in renewable energy sources. The Icelandic energy companies have begun selling these certificates, which can be written as well as electronic. In the United States, there are four power companies that have been selling these certificates. It's interesting to examine. I sent the highest. Industrial, innovation, and professional secretary of inquiry during the previous year and received an answer at the correct month. It turns out, but there are no accurate numbers, but it is estimated that 2018 was the year when these responsibilities or this certificate was sold for 800,850 million. But are the companies selling energy at the same time? No, they're not selling energy, they're just selling energy certificates - people buying are usually out in Europe to look better. To present their clients, clients, buyers, or people they do business with if they produce any product. Then they present the proof. A buyer can breathe slowly because the seller makes his product with renewable energy, resulting from renewable energy sources. But that does not have to be the case. There may be nuclear plants nearby that the company buys the energy from. So this is some sort of deception, but behind it is certainly a good will because this is to be, of course, primarily to promote electricity producers, to produce more energy with renewable energy sources. That's the point, and they're paid for it. The price of this good energy is being created, and as a result, the level of waste energy, nuclear power, and coal power from which it is processed is reduced. That's where they're building incentives. How did the Icelandic power companies sell their energy according to the minister's response? During 2018, the total value was estimated to be 800 to 850 million. Renal inactivation is the most widely sold product, estimated to have sold land in 2018 by 600 million. The energy dealer is one of the sellers. Nature's energy, an estimate that it sells these responsibilities this year, the current year, 2019 by 150 million. Finally, it's HD Power. I'll be better able to do this in my next speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u298	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for informative speech I encourage him to continue his studies on this matter, which he has taken the initiative here at the General, including with a remarkable inquiry about the matter that we all await in anticipation of an answer. There's one thing I want to pick up. A senator. That is what we read in the letter of Friðrik Arnarks, the Árni of Friðriksson, Hirst, and Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson. The letter is dated April 10th. They say, with President's permission: There is no legal question that the way we set out and put it is fundamentally in the Congress of Ministers of Foreign Affairs is in accordance with the constitution. In our opinion, that is the most important fact. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed with me that there was a clear difference between a letter and an opinion? There's a certain statement I don't question in any way. I would have been curious about knowing and seeing more information and logical support for that conclusion. I think I'm getting close to the answer. The answer is that this route, which was put forward and adopted by the minister of State and the government, involves - as shown in a report on the Fride of the Year Friðriksson Hirst, which appeared on the same day, April 10, on the Web site mbl.is - that it is followed by the Friðrik of the Árni that the Constitution is actually delayed. But as I say, I would have chosen to see the further legal interpretation of this. I'll allow myself to encourage the highest. Secretary of State to make a better distinction between a letter and a legal opinion. Of course, it is understandable that in a short letter it is not possible to go into an extensive logic and legal analysis, of course, a legal opinion. It's a bad idea. A senator on this would be interesting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u299	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the questions. He made a subject of their opinion of the companions of Már Stefánsson and Professor Friðrik Fridek's Friðriksson Hirst's partner, a detailed opinion of 43 pages they made on the request of the government. Secretary of state, and send in and she will follow the case. Some other time, I don't have a date on it, they send a letter that has been called the lawsuit, where, in short, they cross the basis of the government's way. It will be taken into account that the way the government decided to choose is merely the endpoint of their detailed and clear opinion, which is listed on 43 pages. They end up a report in less than eight lines, pointing out other possible solutions, as they put it. I'm not going to read it. Then, in the suggestion they make there, they end up saying that this way is not without blemish. This letter, which they send to the secretary of state, if I have it just after - no more legal assessment of that letter can be made than the contents of it indicates. What I want to say is, of course, it was the right thing to do. Secretary of State investigating this route much better. It's only at the end of the group's opinion in a few lines, that there's a way - I'm going to make it better in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u300	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Such a possible solution, actually in two places, is discussed in the opinion of the two types, and it is pretty much the same text in both places. It's a half-eighth line, but they say, with President's permission: ▪ A possible solution could be that a third pack of energy will be created in Icelandic correctly - this time come the password - ◯en with legal notice that his directives for crossborder structures, e.g. Section 8. Regulation, don't make any sense... That's where they've drawn up at least The content of the legal advance, i.e. Regulation 713, or at least looks like they're saying that... Section 8. Regulation No. 713/2009 does not gain value, for such building blocks are not meant to leave here. They say. So here is the content of the matter they suggest. But lawyers are that nature, like cot. A natural senator realizes that not only content but also shapes are asked. And now there has been widespread search for legal warnings. A senator has had a measure of leadership in this regard. I would have liked to see their analysis of the shape of this legal advance, but as we know, there have been all kinds of ideas and suggestions in this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u301	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Ólafur of Ísleifsson for these speculations, which are of great interest and are, in fact, the core of the matter, in my opinion. This is really the point of the matter, that these fine scholars point to a possible route, and they say it as well as then, like hell. A senator read that this article that has been most widely in the mouth of the opposers, 8. ................................ That's where they suggest an 8. Can't get any value. How? So it is with this so - called legal advance that all depends on it. To the 8th parr. If you don't have any legal value, you'll have to pay your dues. Further instructions on what is included in this legal advance, which is exactly what he is, where he should appear, and by what means, he is lacking. The instructions for this are lacking. That's why when we asked for it, the government's staff found a lot of footing. The men had nothing to do with that, Mr. President. We received a number of responses that all of us had at one another, and we have been very busy looking for that legal warning. There has been a search for him, and there is now an estimate that the Regulation is in the Ministry, a matter of decision as to whether it is legal. Then we come back to the basic question: Why was it not granted to the legal advisers how exactly to do this? The men ran so fast that they were asleep on their heads with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u302	V.E.G. President. That's a pretty good discussion. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason very much. I wondered what he said about the legal warning, that he has come out in all forms, so to speak. I found information to say that in March of this year the European Commission's Executive Director and the Director of Energy at the Commission interviewed matters. A joint news release was followed by a joint announcement confirming their common understanding of the uniqueness that Iceland enjoys in the common energy market. Is that legal? The report states that due to the unique status of Iceland as an isolated system, a large part of the third energy package does not apply to the value or practical relevance of the region, and this is relevant to the provision of a European Commission on energy market cooperation, i.e. ACER and ESA. Is this legal? It also states in this joint announcement that the current provision of the third package has no effect on Iceland's capital. That's where I want to put the point, because this is what I think is the biggest case of opinion we're facing, and I wonder, is it legal?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u303	Mr. President. It is one of the factors that has been considered, and it has been suspected that the legal defense is in this joint declaration. If I've understood why. A member of the Parliament, which I thank for the question, refers to the declaration of the Minister of Energy and, as well as of Europe's energy managers, the Miguels Arias Cañetes, which declared a common understanding of Iceland's speciality. What exactly is it, Mr. President, that men meet somewhere in Europe, Minister and some high-ranking European energy agency, declaring that Iceland is a long way out in the ocean? It seems he has been suggested that Iceland was an island in the middle of a sea and that there were no electrical lines there. They acknowledge that it's a special place, it's an island, there's no electrical lines in this island. Therefore, many aspects of the energy directive are of no importance to this issue. That's obvious, Mr. President. What does this mean? Is it legal? No, it's not a law. They're not putting any law there, they're not doing it, although they're talking together and confirming Iceland's unique status and known facts about it. These are not laws, and this cannot be legal, but, of course, it is a statement with value. This is mainly of political value, Mr. President, but not legal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u304	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to apologize for not giving a direct quote or a reference to where I had this information that I used earlier in my reply. It's information on the work and innovations of the Ministry, and it's presented as I understand it in cooperation with the State Department of State. It's good to keep it up and keep it up. I cut it by what I did. A senator in his speech that Europe is now calling for clean energy and has set up the two key objectives of energy technology, as it is said, to reduce the cost of pure energy and to have the EU industry in the lead, industry in the EU, with rapidly increasing technology and to reduce carbon use. In that case, the European Commission will present a strategy to be met. That's why Iceland is under, and even Norway, who have a lot of cleaner energy, and I wonder if we're completely safe as long as there's no sea cable here. I wondered if it's all about the cable. We're dealing with a pack of three energy, and we know that package four is coming in very fast. Where does the cable fit into these two packages?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u305	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For that question and for the question, I'd like to present to Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir The Year's Daughter. She spoke of pure energy in the European Union. Yeah, you're right next door. A member of the European Union has long been working to increase the share of renewable energy in the production of the countries. However, in certain parts of Europe, such energy is scarce, and energy needs to be purchased elsewhere and even far away. The rules, both the energy directives, the first energy package, second and third and more, actually set the way for the future, which is beautiful and good. The purpose is good, but there are shadows on it because energy prices in Europe are very high, also to the public. We've had low energy prices in Iceland. We have built this system for ourselves, the nation, the kingdom, and it is in public property, both distribution systems and activations. In the future, the inhabitants expect to benefit from this building work. But it doesn't have to be that it serves the European Union's future interests, industry and development interests in Europe with clean energy that it could receive from windmill gardens or from Norway and possibly from Iceland from renewable sources of energy that are abundant in this area. How do they do this? They introduce a rule as I have been to mention and will continue to mention sales of responsibilities of origin, i.e. so that this looks good and increases the share of renewable energy in increasing the price of pure energy to further reduce the share of unclean energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u306	Mr. President. This morning, on a Web site, a report appeared under the heading ◯ Over 2,100 talks and protests by the Middle Class. This report is very thorough and contains detailed information on the number of speakers and the number of respondents, divided by individual Parliaments and members of the Central Party, who have participated in this discussion, and made it clear that this report is carried out by great industry and conscientiousness. Then there is a picture of several members of the council, and it is always a pleasure to have a photo in the media. But I must allow myself to ask, Mr. President: it is limited the coverage and reporting of the state media, which is set to have considerable contributions, I suppose that would be more than 5,000 million a year, than about 4,000, in a large case involving some 4,000. constitution, our position in important cooperation between European nations and the nation's resources, with details of the things I mentioned? Mr. President. This discussion has been a subject, it has been illuminating, and it has been an analyst. We have applied ourselves to study this matter, to investigate the principles that are fundamental in this case, including the legal opinions to which we are intended to introduce, and many other factors. May I mention, Mr. President, that we have been very active in the legal advance, and we have had the premeditation to seek this advance and have the humanity that has a measure of expertise in the power of law and leadership of the country's police force, of course, I mean what. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason. There are very large questions that concern the legal in advance. First, where is he? Second, what should he do? I think we know pretty much what to do. He's supposed to solve the administrative problem by procrastinating it, but he must not be giving us a problem with the cooperation we have had and the national commitments we have accepted. Therefore, it is very important to submit a legal opinion and analysis of the type of prevention required, at least ... intheformoftheform. Its contents are recorded in the opinion of Friðrik Árni Friðriksson Hirst and Stefánsson Már, that is done in two places in the poll, in which they say that the third energy package will be introduced into Icelandic correctly but legally warned that his laws on infrastructure over cross-borders, e.g. Section 8. Regulation No. 713/2009, if such building projects are not available in our country, will they not be accepted? In effect, the lines have been placed on the material of the model. But as everyone knows, one form and form is important, especially if these cases might be tested in court. They have called attention to the possibility of at least For example, in an interview at the World Friðrik Árni Friðriksson Hirst, it is conducted in a court hearing where it does not rule out that EFTA, a short-acting ESA, is a reason for appeal of negotiations to the EFTA Court on the grounds that the third energy package should be introduced into national law. Similarly, he says that it was possible for individuals or lawyers to have damages against the Icelandic State. [[The president calls.]] There are many questions, and I have had only a few, but I will mention more in the next talk, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u307	Most of the time, it's still the same. Two o'clock. Senators have requested an answer. President wants to encourage them. Councilmen to set the matter straight further and shorten the discussion so that they may be tempted to finish it as quickly as possible, but still stress that freedom of speech and the freedom of expression is in place.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u308	Mr. President. Hv. A member of the council asked whether the Kingdom News on this subject and this discussion was limited to statistics on the length and number of discussions that have been discussed. That is not so, for the Kingdom News coverage is not limited to statistics alone. Friday nights will be part of this television station, which I think is Friday or Friday night, and is supposed to be a sort of show, but I'll go out to a group of friends from the West Side of Reykjavík and downtown meeting at the taxpayers'expense to share my compliments, but at the same time, perhaps in the first place, mock others. I understand that this aspect of the matter was a significant subject, and it was the last contribution. The chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee for the discussion, however, ridicule and ridicule were completely ignored, and the content of the matter was not mentioned at all. In that sense, the problem is just around the corner. A member of the Parliament that although the State Radio coverage has not just been limited to statistics, the content has not been covered much. Then the question, taking into account comments from the highest point. A president earlier. I agree with what. paritaprevir The Ólafur of Isaiah's Ísleifsson that this discussion has been very meaningful and beneficial. But there's a reason. A senator agreed that it would even be more likely to speed up the discussion and speed up some sort of conclusion in this matter if those who support this energy package had a chance to show up and answer, defend their stand, try to explain it to us?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u309	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, for the counter, and I thank him for giving further light on the subject of the Kingdom Media, which I understand is neutral to the law on the Government Radio. Perhaps it would be subject to discuss the responsibilities of the media and how monitoring is done by his general responsibilities, including these. I can, of course, agree with that. A senator said that if the answers were answered to the questions we have raised and there are many questions, it would be a natural solution to the discussion. I had a list earlier that I wanted to list in my speech, and I just found out that with the first point facing the legal warning. But I'll know if I can mention one or two more in my own time. Why was it not granted release to the joint committee? In view of our lack of contact with Europe, were they not searched for it? In the joint committee, Iceland was given an exception from natural gas, so Iceland was being given an exception because of a special status. We have a special situation where we don't have natural gas. We have a special situation where we do not have a connection to Europe. Why, then, do we get an exception to natural gas and not because of the other factor? Why doesn't there be any rational talk about it, let me say it? Why not consult the joint committee on the basis of a recommendation in the contract itself, so that there will be an exception in the way the contract assumes? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u310	Mr. President. This is one of the fundamental questions that have not been answered. We've done a lot of things to shed more light on this and to indicate that no lions are actually in the way of directing the case to the joint EEA Committee and getting a real exception or at least asks for it. But we're not getting any answers. V.E.G. In fact, the minister of foreign affairs came by at the council a few days ago. He did not answer that question. He pointed out that there had been another route, not explaining why the route had been gone, but not the recommended route. And there is doubt in fact that the government and the minister are going the opposite way. Obviously, they're not going through the EEA better route, but they're probably not going to the lower point because the backups have not been found. The search will continue as we know, but no one has been found foreordained. There's a gun. paritaprevir Þorvaldsson Thordvalsson agreed to the interesting fact, and made clear by referring to the source of the Regulation, the Regulation itself, to the introduction of the third energy package, we were enforcing the energy package as it appeared to the joint EEA committee in 2017, long before some PR agent, or I don't know who it was, trying to convince a panel of the independence people by making a so-called notice. In other words, it's headed for the government's approval of the 2017 energy package. The premonitions make no difference. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u311	Mr. President. It might very well be written by a lawman at a meeting of the State Department, which I had the opportunity to sit down and say, "I don't want to be on notice, they're for home bridges. " Mr. President. I mentioned a few factors that I think are absolutely necessary to discuss in a thorough manner from those responsible for the synonym. First, they need to explain the situation. Why is this needed in May by many unscrupulous questions? When this issue was not presented, a minister in the media, one of the advisers who has the greatest responsibility, may be expected in the spring of 2019 or in the fall of 2019. At that time, it didn't seem to be in such a hurry. Secondly, it is absolutely necessary to have information on the fourth energy package so that the energy package can be evaluated at a single time. It will be 1,000 pages from the Brussels writer. So I'm running some further questions: Why can't we wait for the news that has been announced by the Federal Court of Justice on September 23, which will discuss the warnings of eight that were made in that country and the administrative problems that we've been dealing with here? And finally, all the analyses of the plans that have been revealed in the report of The Times are missing yesterday and reported in the Icelandic media as well as on the plans of British investors to place a cable here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u312	President. I thank the senator for his speech. I thought I saw at the Web site the will.is that the agency of this British company was contacted and interviewed. It's nice to see that this company is here with Iceland's employees working on this for themselves as they work on it in the UK, so let's not think anything else except that there's pressure in both places for this project to be realized. But I'd like to make you happy. A senator by the fact that I noticed on the TV website that the energy package was discussed yesterday in Krakka News. It's a question of whether this coverage was consistent with the mountaintops on politics, which have, for example, been used. published in the series Our Hour, where humans have only taken advantage of this opportunity and have been promoting political propaganda in that child show. I'll tell you, I haven't seen Krakka News, and I'm looking as little as I can at this and not just the Kid stories. But I think it's very important to keep it stressful to encourage this predatory state medium to go deeper into the matter. There's certainly been some interviews, but there's more to do, I'd say. Hv. In his talk, a senator asked a few questions, and there were no doubt others left behind. He came in right at the end of what I've been talking about and thinks it's important, i.e. It's a combination of the energy packs of all and the future mice. How can humans justify going through this discussion without considering the overall picture? I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether we can expect someone to sit down, e.g. With us members of the Central Party, saying, "It's time for us to examine the bigger picture. [[The president calls.]] Let us pause this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u313	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. He sheds new light on the Kingdom media coverage, just like what it is. paritaprevir The above was the Sigmundur over Davíð Gunnlaugsson. How interesting it would be if someone could make a personal effort to learn what this discussion contains and whether it is relevant to the subject in a material sense! I'm going to let myself tell you, Mr. President that I have a brief speech and very short answers to and tore at least a few answers. Six very important, very important things, and in fact, each of these will include many questions that will be answered. This case, Mr President, is in fact not well prepared. I've allowed myself to tell you that the preparations are in a bad shape, that they don't say they're scary. The matter depends on the ability to qualify. The greatest honor would be that the government would be restored, and if possible, the government would be better able to answer the questions raised here and try to work with them. But I'm not sure it's possible. As with the members of the Central Party, the country seems to be very opposed to the situation, in many of the messages that we have received since this discussion began.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u314	President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. It is true that he came in his talk, and previously mentioned that the answers have been rather poor on the legal basis of so - called and, indeed, in poor answers to all our many questions. I had one 18 here on paper only with regard to the fourth energy package. You're wondering if it's not a legitimate tip, I'm not gonna use the word requirement, from the members of the Central Party that it's wise to look into the whole thing and assess, for example, because of the situation. A member of the United States has mentioned the possibility that the European Union will be exposed to the EFTA Court, whether any component of the fourth energy package increases the likelihood that this could occur, some changes that might encourage it, the potential motivation. While some people wish to watch the packages as special boxes, two, three and four, etc., these are compatible in the European Union. It is natural to wonder. So I have a question about whether it is wise to examine the bigger picture, even if it was only on this point. Then there is another. Nor have we had any response to what the attorney Eyjoður, a yearEyjólfur Ármannsson, in Norway, warns about his authority, i.e. that energy policy is being introduced by the European Union at the same time as Iceland has not developed energy policy. This will prevent us from evaluating the interests based on the different policies that are actually being set on the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u315	Mr. President. I thank the President for this important information, and maybe the State Radio even published a news report about it. This case is, as if I traced the previous year's answer to an enemy. paritaprevir Gunnar the Bragi of Brana, the son of Sveinsson, is not well prepared to speak. I'd like to mention that about maybe two more things, but that's enough to take. If we look at what is emphasized in the comments of Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, in which he speaks of his knowledge, has been in the highest order in this case in his time when we entered the EEA, which is the main thing: as soon as the public or members feel that cooperation makes an agreement about mutual access to the market could not be considered, as he puts it, for access to a market to a resource. Now we are faced with a legal opinion that cannot be interpreted in any way other than the fact that we are here at least. Part of the access to a resource. Why does the government promote a fundamental change in foreign policy as it has been followed?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u316	V.E.G. President. Since the discussion of the third energy package began, the government has claimed that there is no need to worry or in general about the matter. But on closer examination, we can see that the warnings are not there, we haven't found them, i.e. for the regulation of the energy package. The implementation of EU regulations shall be agreed with other countries. So these regulations are the same for all the nations coming in to this covenant. They can be found in more than one language. This means that the energy package directives for Iceland are exactly like the energy package regulations for other EFTA countries. If we are to enter notice in such regulations, this must be done in accordance with the countries of the covenant and in accordance with the EEA agreement. But what's the alarm about? He is, in fact, a promise from the Lawgiver to himself, if we can say so, to see if the order of the work will last for a constitution if it comes to this site. We can then debate the value of the Lawgiver's promises to itself. It is also true that the premise applies exclusively to the sea cable and can be said that it simply has nothing to do with the energy package. If the Parliament's arrangement for the energy package is adopted at the General Assembly, Iceland will be the last country in the EFTA enterprise to lift the so-called administrative warnings against the energy package. When Iceland relieves administrative warnings, the energy package regulations will be No. 713/2009, 714/2009, 543/2013 and 2009/72/EC implemented into IV. The annex of the EEA Convention to take effect for us. This process is quite clear. It's with the EEA joint committee. Once the third energy package has been introduced, if the council approves its protocol, a specific procedure will be initiated to adapt the Icelandic law in accordance with the regulations. But back to the warning. Since the Icelandic electricity system is not linked to the national electricity system, building blocks across borders are required by the European Parliament and by the Council Regulation No. 713/2009, with no electricity connections between countries, has not been implemented in Iceland while such a connection has not been established. Sources that make it possible to transport electricity between Iceland and the EU energy market will be built only after the approval of the Generalis and review of the administrative law under the scope of the Regulation. It says that Iceland does not intend to change the law now in accordance with the regulations in the terms of international transactions, they will be stored until later, or until someone has the intention to put the cable here. We have already seen evidence of such interest. In this regard, it is appropriate to note that in the EU the rules for priorities apply. These rules require that in all cases the EU rules are more justified than the laws and regulations of the Member States. I think this is a very important point, and I think it's a good point to point it out. I see my time is almost up, so I'll finish my next speech and ask the president to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u317	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. There's been a search, like a cot. A senator may know that, on behalf of members of the Central Party, they have not been found, despite their repeated search. The question, however, may not be about it but about whether the warnings they are presented in this matter are, as you say, worth the paper because it is like a dog. In this case a senator went so well over the law of the EU or the EEA is higher than the law of Iceland and may not even be enough, as well. paritaprevir Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gunnardóttttir said, wear belts and shoulders, clothes on, and new shoes, and an adhesive to work with it. So I ask why. A member of Parliament: In view of the discussions that have taken place recently in advance of warnings and how they are put in position and how they should act, however, the causes of confusion. A senator that these warnings will work as expected? Counts 'em out. A senator that a sentence in a case of this magnitude really means securing the interests we want to secure? Or are they primarily such a smoke screen, if we can put it this way, a bad translation of an English word, but the matter is Icelandic, to dust the eyes of the senators who have been led to support the matter of forced willows and to throw dust into the eyes of the common people?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u318	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much. The premonitions have been called either a joint statement by the EFTA states or a declaration by the government. You can find a trace of the advance thought in a report. Then I read for the benefit before that there might be a possible problem with a joint press release. That's what I read back there. Let's say that people are working on this whole thing, and people really believe that these warnings are being held, and it may be even more obvious that they should wait for a conclusion when the case is addressed in Norway on September 23, after which Norway set eight warnings. I think we talked about the officers being put in - at least 14, 15, 16 months ago and they weren't there. At the same time, it seems that if warnings are made, they should actually feel, or come into effect, within six months, a rule of some kind. I'm still trying to tell you that we haven't made sure of our backs and backs. I think we're supposed to hurry, and it's time to go to the depth of the situation. Then you have to pray again to the media to help you see how all of this is growing. It's not that cut and cut. We have shown this in our presentation that it is not.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u319	Mr. President. That's exactly what I do this morning. A senator, to the state media, produced a very precise number of discussions that each member of the Central Party had held and a number of hours. Now it's not a sports event. This is a discussion of matters that are important to the future, that are important to our children and grandchildren, and that I would have thought it might have been 4,000 million. K. worth reviewing some of these conversations that have been presented, both for the night and for the past days, many excellent and illuminating, instead of counting minutes. But perhaps the government media has not yet gone out of Euroviation, where everything goes out of measuring, counting points, and measuring minutes, so it may well be that he is preoccupied with it. But that's not what I was going to talk to you about. A senator. I was just going to thank her for pointing out that this September, a administrative court in Norway is going to discuss a warning that the Norwegians put on their induction on the third energy package. I'd like to ask you what. A senator considered what she thinks we are doing about bringing in this package of energy in the poor way that we're doing with reasons that aren't really worthts, before it turns out what's going to happen, if I can put it that way, the Norwegian defences on the case are going to be taken into the administrative court. I'd like to pray. A senator would give us a brief overview of how she feels about this method or this plan to do it in this way?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u320	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's scoring for the question. That it is best for me to wait until the conclusion is resolved in Norway, at least to see if Norway will take over. On September 23, I think it's about whether the case will be recorded there, and I expect that will be done because the eight watchmen are not found. But since then, I've heard that the highest. Minister Reykfjörð Gylfadóttir Gylfjördóttir, has brought up the matter to be said that it would be possible to postpone the case until the fall here. You might say it's pretty good at the highest. A minister to bring it up, and perhaps it was because of the supreme. A minister realizes that Norway is a serious situation and if we do not continue in our course, we can be in the same position as they do. I can see this so that we should wait completely beyond September 23 and then be reassigned to see what could be done and what could be done from that day forward.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u321	President. Hv. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir mentioned the warning we've been looking for. You can often see why. paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautaça sit over large stacks of magazines with reading glasses on the tip of the nose and a cross-checking pen in one five colors looking for clues as to where to find the warning. That investigation continues. Hv. A senator, a former sheriff, a businessman, and a principal, he does not give up. But what if the warning did not exist and never existed? And what if even in the face of danger? It wouldn't matter. Now I'm going to ask you what. A senator on a point that appeared here one night in speeches. paritaprevir Like a lawyer, Jón Þór, the son of Þorvaldsson, who made his case a master case in a brilliant way. He brought it out with reference to the law and regulations that if the third energy package is approved at the council then it includes the full source of the energy package as it looked out in 2017 when it was last approved by the joint EEA committee. That's when no one started to talk about this warning. In other words, it is true that among others, the apostle Pálsson, former president of the Independence Party and Prime Minister, has pointed out that the warning is just a delusion. Isn't this proof of what we've been pointing to? The only way is to send it back to the joint EEA committee, because when it is introduced, it is introduced as arranged there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u322	V.E.G. President. That's an excellent question. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. They're starting to do research work anyway. paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautaça, who have not yet failed to succeed in spite of their great will. I don't think it's the wrong conclusion of this research that the models are not found, since they, as I understand it, are about the cable. A Swedish string is not included in an energy pack of three. However, I have not examined the matter deeply that I know if a cable is found in a pack of four energy. And then the question is, will we have anything to say about a pack of energy when we get in there with involvement in the EU's internal market and thus we need to stop because if the EU is going to land a sea cable into Iceland? I've chosen to watch this, so it's not us that lays a cable from Iceland. Rather, we're going to need a crust, if a cable is laid in Iceland, if it's on our terms. I would like to argue that it is not reasonable to plan for the next council or its members or usually for the future meetings to decide whether or not. We're supposed to be done now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u323	President. The third energy package encourages my opinion at least very much for the sea cables to be laid, and it doesn't seem to be just my assessment because this weekend news was released in the Sunday Times, where it said that sea cables to Iceland were very far along and those members who are only waiting for a stamp from the British Ministry of Business. Induction of this package and, of course, in context of various other regulations, including in the face of competitiveness, which is designed to remove obstacles, especially if private members claim to be ready to engage in this process. This will be done on the basis of the European Union, the third energy package will have been introduced. But I agree with it as a matter of course. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir says the rest of the fourth energy package. It is designed to make it more likely that this will still be the case. I fear, however, that the third package is enough to contribute to the seastration. Then the fourth package will be carried out under the direction of a foreign agency, not under the United States, but in foreign officials.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u324	V.E.G. President. You're absolutely right. Of course, the induction of a three - pack of energy encourages further planning for transposphere cables. This has made us part of a common energy market, and we can hardly say when Europe needs clean energy to be found here, although I realize that they also want to go to Norway for clean energy. Now private people have already invested themselves and are investing a lot of money in laying sea cables across the country, both domestic and foreign. Hv. One senator referred to a Sunday Times report, and it was true that the person interviewed said that he needed nothing more than a British government stamp. He did not write about Icelandic governments as being in control. It just tells us that we're part of this market, and then a string arrives in Iceland. That's always what I have in mind. We've already become part of this rule. We are part of the coalition; we must contribute to the supplying of clean energy because we are under obligation to reduce the levels of carbon dioxide of everyone. The purpose is quite clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u325	Mr. President. I got out of my way this morning, and then I got such a lovely greeting from the President. We Middle-class people have a lot to list and a lot of good things to do, but we don't manage Generals. This is what the president of the Parliament, a longtime and well - known need for rich expression, should understand those of us who have the same need to express us abundantly in matters of great importance. I don't know any better than the offer that this case would be set aside at some point and that important matters would be placed in front of them so that they can be settled. I've been here a few nights, and I can't see that we've disturbed any man's night's sleep or that we've done anything to interfere with the Senate that night and the rest of the days that have been set. So I would like to direct it to the president to consider that this matter can be set aside and that other matters could be set aside. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u326	The president has explained under this session several times that when members of the Parliament have to express themselves extensively, there is little more to do than respond by extending meetings and offering them an opportunity to do so. [[Up front.]] This morning, the president did not withdraw his comment, he had reason to believe, and has reason to believe that the more than 90 hours spent by members of the Central Party have been used to express themselves on this matter are now enough to make their point and to explain their viewpoints in this matter. So much time, one congregation of council probably never got in the history of the council to explain its position on the subject. Then, at some point, such things should be emptied and should be possible to take care of the case so that the council will decide. But he does not do so when it comes to preventing a decision. This involves the responsibility of those chosen.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u327	Mr. President. We appreciate that the president has extended a meeting so that we could express ourselves freely or - little. On the other hand, there is an issue of growth with this matter that the mood of Congress is different. According to polls, the majority of the people are opposed to this matter. We feel obliged to present this matter to the nation as best we can, because the government has not, and neither have the government groups. We have seen a great deal of response on the part of those who have observed the night and day in this regard. We really feel that it is our duty to inform the people of what is really involved. It's not to us that men slept on their green ear and didn't want to talk here with us about the matter that we're sorry about. But then, naturally, we continue to talk to the nation for as long as it takes and for as long as we can.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u328	President. Then there is another turn to the absurd situation we live in at the National Assembly of Iceland, a position we heard earlier today that other senators are complaining about, that it is prevented by a maskless silence - it is nothing more than a masquerade of speech - that it is here that the will of senators should be realized, that it is possible to operate properly and resolve a matter. People who get 90 hours or more to communicate may do something other than promote their opinions or take lessons on how to shorten their views so that jobs can function normally. Coming up here and complaining that this is the way it is, it's a perfect hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u329	A respectable president. Like what? paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé knows that we regularly renew our commission to sit here, and when the voters feel that's enough, they say it to us. Of course, members of the council are free, including some of them. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Francis, Óttarsson Proppér, is changing his field of activity. Like everyone else, he is free to do so. There's been no complaint about this night meeting. In fact, there have been indications of reducing the number of answers and such. However, it is unmistakably true that if the president chooses to represent and handle this case - we know that there are other issues that the senators and ministers are interested in finishing - it is in his power to set this matter aside and take, for example. Health or salmon or what it is if you want to finish these matters. It is not necessary for us to allow such matters in advance if a person wants to change the program in this way. But there is nothing more to say about that. [[The president calls.]] It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u330	President. I hope the President senses the irony of the highest speeches. President and, actually, his party buddy from the left movement, a green supply. At times, they have had to express themselves a lot, such as in times of need. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé calls things, and hypocrisy is still being added to the sarcasm. I just wanted to reiterate it as a matter of course. Councilmen have pointed out that we have repeatedly offered to discuss here any matter and to speed up the matter of Congress. I've also pointed out that this new approach is highest. A president who has never been tested as far as I'm next, to let the discussion take place in the middle of the night and late the next morning and even the next day, has proved to be of no particular benefit if the goal is to speed things up. [[The president calls.]] When a discussion takes place under the cover of the night, it is expected that people will not be able to observe it and that the discussion will need to be repeated.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u331	Here a discussion of this part of the program began. just after. 11 this morning, so we can do it. Today, members of the Central Party volunteer to discuss this for about ten hours on a bright day. They cannot call it a cover-up or a night meeting. I've heard members of the Central Party's idea of solving this case by getting their part of the program. They have made an extremely tempting offer that the members of the Central Party receive the part of the program at the General Assembly. And it is only natural for them to insist, in effect, on that, in a way that they have taken over. Regarding the fact that members of Congress may contradict the will of a part of the country, we are based on government democracy. Parliaments elected at the International Assembly of Iceland during this terms took the commission to the nation during the last election and then renew it according to incident if they contemplate continued activity in this field. However, they do not attend polls from day to day. Of course, members of Congress cannot accept responsibility until they are given the opportunity to take a stand on matters, vote. Thus, the Council expresses his will. This will be the final outcome. Thus, the rules of democracy are on which we build all our work. Those who have to think their way of life are those who come for a long time and who are preventing the council from working under their own rules and guidelines of Congress and democracy. This is all the things the president has allowed to remind us in these matters and believes his recommendation to do so. The members of the Central Party were modest. But they have so far failed, that's right.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u332	Mr. President. Slug. Last night I opened a talk about the interaction between the principle of order shown in a pack of three energy and one of the European Union's other regulations. This is an enormously important thing that I have to be able to do. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason first made it a subject, and it's extremely important to consider this in context. It's all actually playing. However, this morning so unfortunate that the discussion of this matter was lost. So I need to move for now to the next talk but to the highest. The president has nothing to fear. This speech is not as lost as a warning and will be found and brought in later. Then, to the next talk about Norway and what we can learn from Norwegian experience. I've already discussed the Norwegian advance, eight warning from the Norwegian Council, and I'm not going to cross them again here. However, I'm going to review just how this case worked out in the Norwegian Parliament, for it can give us some insight into the situation up here. This will include a brief review of Aftenposten, the Norwegian newspaper, a paraphrase that appeared in the business magazine. I'm going to grab a little bit of the business sheet from March 22, 2018, which says, by permission of the president: A further portion of the Norwegian Parliament has agreed with the implementation of a third EU energy package. The three states of the government, the three right party, the forward party, and the left category, are translated here, the prospective Venstre - together to form a minority government - together with the Toads and Greens - chose with the package. There are details, Mr. President, for the government groups, but especially the right category and Venstre, are great European groups. The members of these classes, I think, may be permitted to divulge groups of European Union, and must look at their position in this light. However, there were considerable doubts about this matter, especially among the workers of the Labour Party, actually with the Greens, I think, and it became clear that there was no more to this matter in the Norwegian Parliament. It could be delivered only by agreeing to the Norwegian Labour Party's demand that, along with the payoff, be placed on legal notice, the warnings I had mentioned earlier, and have traced it into a speech. Only in this way could most of the council be supported by this induction. So here in this article, President: The EU energy package is aimed at opening a European energy market and connecting the energy systems of the EU Member States. This package includes recording a total of six EU types in the EEA Convention. Three of them deal with the electricity market, and two are in the field of natural gas. The sixth model measures the establishment of the energy market partner organisation, called ACER... ACER is entrusted, among other things, under specific circumstances, to determine the issues between national monitoring authorities on the basis of cross-border infrastructure. This became just one of the main topics and the major factors in the Norwegian Council and despite the fact that the Norwegian are already linked to the European electricity system through two cables. Many members of the Parliament feared that the induction of the third energy package would move around or contribute to the third string for Scotland and that it would then be done under the guidance of this institution, ACER, or on the basis of the European Union. These are the concerns we find in the discussion here. So says, with President's permission: The third energy package has been discussed in Norway last year, but little has been discussed on the national package. The case is controversial in Norway, a part of the EU internal energy market in contrast with Iceland, but more of the Norwegians opposed the package and the ACER, according to polls. It's still very familiar. [[The president calls.]] But I haven't finished this tour, which is very informative for us at the Icelandic council, to examine the experience of the Norwegians.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u333	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson gave the speech. In this discussion of the Norwegian experience, I feel that there is a full need to draw much more clearly. We're with the Norwegians in the EFTA community, and apart from the fact that they're among all our closest friends and cousins, it's probably important that we learn a lesson from their experience. It was very interesting to hear what was happening. A senator traced the political wastes that occurred before a pack of three energy was approved in the Council. It is of great interest that the work force needed to be directed and that he should require support that no less than eight warnings be given. I think it is absolutely necessary to submit a detailed analysis of the outcome, as well as allow me to say that I believe that the energy package will be approved here before the news of a planned decision, a sentence, or what will now be planned in the field of the European Court of Justice of Norwegian September 23. I reiterate, Mr. President, that I find it very unwise not to learn from Norwegian experience in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u334	President. It's unwise, but it's also surprising, because many songs and discussions about Norwegian bills in Iceland are referred to, like, to national governance or at least Law set. This is especially true in the case of the EEA where the Norwegians, like the ocean. A senator points out, is our associates. How strange it is, then, that at the introduction here, people have chosen to overlook the way this case was held in Norway. This is especially true of those Norwegian warnings I have heard from the highest. advisers I have had the opportunity to ask about the matter that I do not know much about and their contents. In any case, it is clear that they have not been in our place in this case at the International Parliament and with the members of the Central Party, they had to seek out and translate into Icelandic as best they could. However, they were very revealing about the dangers that the Norwegians see in the third energy package and are as such a very strong warning to us. Then there's what happened. A senator mentions the Norwegian Court, which will handle this case on September 23 of this year. You wonder if it's the highest. A industrial minister may have had this in mind when the minister suggested that this might be a reason to wait until the fall. I don't know, but it's at least ...wrong and simply irresponsible to handle this case here, while the outcome of the Norwegian Court is not the case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u335	Mr. President. This is that we have faced the government and those who present this case say that to make up for the shortcomings that may be involved in a conflict with the constitutions of the Constitution, these types of energy are being introduced together in a legal way. Like what? A senator's committee has not yet been able to locate it, but it is suspected that it should be in the form of a series of articles in a Regulation that will plan to be published on the basis of the highest level. Secretary of the trade. Of course, people can ponder the legal force behind such a document and weigh it against the force of national commitments that we shoulder by implementing the energy package. People in review should be aware that the induction of the energy package, provided that this council-sense proposal will be accepted, that these two most widely mentioned regulations, 713 and 714, will be given legal values in Iceland. With all of this, it is hard to see how to go back, and that's why you ask: "Where is the legal opinion to form on the part of the two authors most commonly mentioned, whether the Minister's Regulation is effective here as a legal officer?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u336	President. I suppose that's what. A senator built his theory on where the warning might be to find latest information from the search for warning. But if this theory is correct, i.e. that the guardian will be created in the office minister's office, raises another huge question, and it is this: Why is the defense not shown before the matter should be settled from the council? If the theory is correct that the alarm will exist on the secretary's desk, why not show what it will look like? It's all on the same book. They are either overlooked or sometimes simply as if they were hiding basics related to this induction. So I'll answer a question. The senator's lack of a legal opinion: Yes, I find it obvious that this route needs to be evaluated for itself, i.e. Write an opinion on the way the government proclaims. In order for such opinions to be written, it is likely that they will need to be warned. So far, there is a secret if it is usually there or there is to come. All of this is to the same well, there is a secret of what is being done, and governments, ministers, even ministers, seem not to have it quite in their own hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u337	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much for his speech. He wrote a good deal about what could happen in the future, and I want to start by thanking all those who have sent us good - bye and who have encouraged us. It's kind of remarkable that there are in some way people in town, if I can allow myself to use the wording, which makes us think about what will happen through the induction of a pack of three. We often address the European Union's actions, and they float almost silent and silent throughout the council, so we are very grateful that we had been called upon to consider this matter better than was planned. What I'm wondering about is a pack of four energy, and that vision that might follow the induction of a pack of three is either. When we become part of the common European electricity market, an energy market, a senator might paint some kind of stage. What? What will follow? As if this has gone pretty fast, getting a three-pack of energy in Norway, and now a pack of energy is almost in there, so I'm gonna ask you a question. This is for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u338	President. Hv. Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir puts me in a bit of trouble because she now asks me what I was going to do in my next talk, and then informs me of a particular subject, bringing news, another new story into this discussion. But first, what? Of course, a senator asks, and I can tell you that the fourth energy package has been introduced to Norway's government. The government and Norwegian Congress are now expected to produce the fourth energy package on the grounds that the third one has been introduced. It seems, however, that the Norwayn government intends to hold this up at the Norwegian Parliament until the Icelandic Parliament has delivered its third energy package. Here is another example of how this combination is all worked, and another reminder of how strange it is that the Icelandic government does not seem to be aware of the content of the fourth energy package or unwilling to inform the Parliament about the contents of the package. So we hear that some people in this town have been introduced, and now it will be confirmed that the Norwayn government has been officially delivered a fourth energy package for treatment. It's probably just waiting for the government and its support groups to move this matter through the Icelandic Parliament so that they feel safe to go to the fourth package in Norway.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u339	V.E.G. President. These reports include a lot of news for us and especially for the people of the United States in Iceland. The question is, will the Icelandic government not have to spit on our hands and start answering our questions so that we can find some conclusion on how we want to conduct our affairs? This date, September 23, must be intertwined by their induction process on a pack of three energy. It's just as well being running the case through Norway as here and, of course, all of this must hang out. So the question is, Is Norway's interest outweighing Iceland's interests? Of course, I'm saying Iceland's interests, but I'm not sure that's what it looks like, and I don't think the government agrees with me. It seems to me that the government of Iceland is going to do whatever it can to please the Norwegian. The question is, how do you know? A senator imagined that this matter can be concluded? We know it's the highest. Minister Þórdís Kolbrún, The Reykfjörð Gylfadóttir of Gylfjord, has talked about postponing the case until autumn. Is that a good idea?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u340	President. First out of a remark. However, a senator for Iceland's interests and for Norway's relations with the national governments, I believe that the interests of the two countries in this case at least I think it's possible for you to get along really well and work together. That's where I live, even. in the Norwegian warnings that show just which points concern the Norwegians, and this list closely harmonizes with our concern, even though it adds only to our concerns because of other circumstances. But all that the Norwegians ask for is a point that we Icelanders would also desire to receive an inheritance from. However, the involvement of the Norwegian government with that Icelandic government is very interesting. It must be remembered that, in general, the Norwegian Right Party, the company of Prime Minister Erna Solberg, is a highly Europeanist and Norwegian senators, I think it is safe to say that I can tell much more Europeanly than the locals, especially this right party. In Iceland, however, we have a government set out to be members of the European Union or European Union. However, they are now competing to force the Icelandic Parliament to serve the European Party in Norway and, of course, the European Union. This is not doing any favour to the public in Norway. This group may be doing a favor. So I finally answer a question. I believe a senator is alone in not believing that he will immediately refer the case to the naturally best joint EEC committee to postpone the case until the fall and wait for the information to come. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u341	Mr. President. I'm going to start by coming here and asking Ragnar Þór Ingólfsson, president of the VR, to apologize for the inconvenience and challenge he's faced because he accepted the media case. It is in itself very sad that he would face an outcast for accepting the views presented in the media's presentation that a pack of three energy will be pushed aside and stored until autumn so that things can be taken more seriously. I hope this does not disqualify him or anyone from joining in a good work that the Central Party has and represents. I'd like to be able to do here this morning's article on the core, which is Haraldur Ólafsson, entitled "Why delay the energy package? " With the permission of the president, Haraldur Ólafsson says: It has been a long time for members of the Parliament to talk about the energy complex. Although the discussion is long in hours, it is not mere repetition or meaningless. The question is amazing, and it smells a lot. More and more factors are at the surface, and still more questions arise. The wise thing is to give up the matter and otherwise to postpone it until autumn. In this regard the General shall bear in mind: 1st A number of questions have been raised during the recent Council, day and night. The questions depend on the mass consequences of entering the European Union's energy law, its consequences in energy for industry, nature and environment, foreign trade, and the European Union as a whole. Then there are supposed to be veiled in front of the guard, in order to be spoken out in a mild way. The government that wants to be taken seriously must try to answer the questions that remain before taking any steps that are difficult to take. 2. Much more of the population of Icelanders who take sides is opposed to the legalization of the energy column. The gap between the council and the nation is the deepest in this matter. That knot can be solved by blowing into national law. If so, the minimum requirement is that the case be delayed until autumn so that governments will have time to convince the nation that their cause is good. 3. The approval of the Norwegian energy law team will be adopted by September 23rd. If this case is passed illegally, there is evidence to suggest that the matter will blow up, Iceland and Norway outside the European EMP, all without cause and for the benefit of many. Therefore, there is good advice to await the decision in Norway. It may be that Haraldur Ólafsson, this fine man, is one of the officers of our Energy and president of World Visions. It has been observed in the many of us here that people are observing the discussion, and this fine thistle of the Haraldur is just an example that people care, the public cares, the nation cares. That is why it is vital for us to continue to swerve this matter. As Haraldur rightly points out in his fist since this morning, the discussion has deepened, the matter has deepened. There have been countless questions that no one has ever answered. In itself, what he has said in discourses, many, confirms that the matter is elaborately worked, and that it is to be taken aside, put it off to the fall, so as Haraldur says, that the greater part of the Council affords the opportunity to introduce it better to the people. It has been said with a measure of superiority that those who are most likely to support the third energy package are those who have studied the matter. Therefore, I think it is even more necessary for the greater part of the Council and the government to present this package objectively and properly and by some respect for the nation so that the greater percentage of the people at the Council can, by some means, win the greater part of the nation on their side.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u342	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir SólmundÞorsteinn Sæmundsson for his speech, this quote, and a reading from the article of Haraldur's son Ólafsson. That article is brand-new. Such articles and discussion have given rise to the discussion, and more questions have been raised that need to be answered implicitly before going beyond the discussion. They always agree, and just as you can ask, What is the delay of the matter until the fall, making better progress at the bottom? The article speaks of supposed officers as covered with mystery. I wondered if the senator can only shed light on them from his point of view. Has the senator seen this particular point, what can we learn from what this speaker, the meteorologist Haraldur Ólafsson, is doing in this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u343	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. I feel that the Haraldur's thistle points to what we have said before, as I told you before, that the nation cares. She observes this matter and the information that is being presented, and she leaves it to the end of her future interests. The senator believes that the examples that Haraldur uses so politely are wrapped in mystery. The talks here show that we have, especially, why. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason, in search of these alleged omens, where to find them, how they were put in, etc. First, the search has not been successful, but second, it has been shown, e.g. on behalf of the justice of lawyers, that the defences under which this case is handled by the government are not worth a dime. That's what I've been trying to explain, including in the discussion of this discussion, that if a black man were to commit steel in this case, if e.g. The Icelandic government would be sullied by the induction of the energy package, the so - called premiums that have been cut one. They won't answer a few opinions. They would be thrown out of court, and speaking would begin. I reiterate that Haraldur Ólafsson is tingle, and politely saying that he is covered with mystery, that is, in fact, the least humans can say on this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u344	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's scoring for answers. The warnings are as stated in the preceding article in a occult. Now the one present has always viewed all the warnings made in business or negotiations that usually involve two persons, perhaps more, need to be signed by both parties so that they can keep water. Isn't it also a major part of this case that the warnings we're talking about are made solely to home bridges, as often shown, but not stamped on the joint EEA committee? Is that not what we would like to wait for this package to be sent for and to arrive? in the article? Doesn't the senator think that's a basic requirement? The best thing to do is to make a contract hopeless, that the deal is so good, if it's waterproof, that it can keep without warning, without the need for any cracks.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u345	V.E.G. President. A number of jurists have encouraged the government to reject the third energy package and send it into reconciliation to the European Commission, where laws would be intended for which the EU would observe and therefore exist. It just seems so bad that I couldn't find my report from the Eyolður of the Eyjólfur's Ármannsson, the lawyer who's supposed to be at rot on my table. He's getting into all of this in a review he sent to the State Department, but nothing was done. I had a word with the highest. Secretary of State on this statement that the minister of foreign affairs did not seem to recognize but spoke down. He said: "We rely on the best experts. This made me feel that he was minimizing this fine man, the Eyjólfur Ármannsson of the Year, who, in my opinion, has presented one of the best reports I have yet done on this matter. His conclusion is absolutely conclusive, i.e. to send the case back to the European Commission on the basis of Article 102. The EEA Convention to achieve a common outcome after agreeing treatment. Hv. A senator expressed it so well when he spoke of the need for both sides to agree and had both come to the answer. As this is now, we're setting a one - sided notice. We've done that before, and sliding on your ass with it, including... in a so - called meat language that will likely be on the program for the coming assembly and will likely be a long discussion. [[The president calls.]] This is what is meant by the words that have been said to prevent water from being held.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u346	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Have I stopped only from the potential effects of a pack of four so - called winter packages on us Icelanders compared with what was reported in a report on its possible effects in Norway? The report claims that many activities will be compromised if energy policies continue to be implemented by the European Union. That package of energy, by permission of President, is named in English: Clean Energy for All Europeans, which is an excellent name in itself, but by which it receives ACER, i.e. with the fourth energy package, increasing power through electricity flow between countries. It will mean that it will then be the same electrical price in the whole area, and then I'm talking about in the whole European electricity area. I'd like to put this in context of a business here on a country we'd like to carry around the country, and ask if it's all right. A senator has thought of something, e.g. With Crumbian surgery, what happens to such activity, and then only with the less industry people are trying to build up all over the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u347	Mr. President. Yes, it does not help because the Norwegians are rather terrified of a pack of four of energy because they have, of course, installed a pack of three, of eight which are now being treated by a government court or taken care of in September of the second, so we do not know exactly what will happen about this induction. At any rate, the price has greatly increased power. Industrial Association in Norway, i.e. The body of smaller and medium-sized enterprises has suffered an increase in their business, thousands have lost their jobs, and thousands more are predicted to suffer the same. Last night or this morning, I quoted an article from the former Supreme Court. Minister and minister. Senator Sighvatur Björgvinsson. Soon, that worthy man will be accused of taking over the sights of the Middle Party. And late, that prudent person will be accused of what has been called a national dishonour. But he has strongly warned of this induction that we are standing in front of and will have additional effects when a four - pack energy package comes across; first of all because of high energy prices and secondly, just so I draw it together a few more sentences as the former. A senator said, because of an increase in energy prices to the public and because of the increased impacts and power of international institutions, which can pose a challenge to the energy sector as best of the European Union. Sadly, more of the Council has not listened to men like this fine ex - force. A senator will do us all harm. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u348	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's for it. It is, of course, that this will have certain consequences, and it must be our duty to inform the rest so that people know about what they are doing. I know why. A senator is an amateur in the media and how to handle and handle information. The question is, could it not include a specific appeal from us here to enable the media to have, what should you say, this informed discussion, and give it the importance that is necessary, because it is a huge case? I think it's clear that energy prices will rise here and more things will play in there. Then there's my question. A senator whether he has made a picture of how it would just be best for a presentation of a three - pack energy package. So as goes on, it's not normal to have a careful presentation of a four - pack of energy. I'd like to say this with all due notice, because my earnest will is that we postpone the case until autumn, and that should give the government space to do this well and inform the people about what's going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u349	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'd like to argue that the careful and controversial discussion that has been conducted here during the past few days and nights may be the presentation that the public should have received on the side of the government. However, the government has not cared for it, except that the minister of foreign affairs went through the country to introduce the third energy package, incorporated. But in the case of the Independence Party, you have no idea whether your trip had gone to introduce foreign ministers or the energy package. I view the media, especially the state media, as having obligations that they have failed to fulfill. Just this morning, for instance, I have a story, in case the news was to be heard, about the discussion at the General Assembly, and that a table was set up, as in Eurosion, about the number of speeches, minutes, and anything like it, but the content was nothing, not a thing made. Of course, especially the government media, should put up publicity shows in this big issue, I mean introduction shows, not propaganda shows, where the benefits and vices are put on the case, and of course the government should see to it that some of the 4,000 million who are going to run the state media might be involved in informing the public in the country what this is about, what it is, how it will affect the present and future and what follows. In short, I feel that the media have failed in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u350	V.E.G. President. I'm going to go ahead and finish my last talk, where I would discuss the need for the warnings. A few members of Congress have noted that there may be no warnings and that this is really nowhere to be found, so the matter is disguised, as the writer of the Quarton, Haraldur Ólafsson, spoke of in the article of the day. Within the energy package, there are a number of paragraphs, many of which have nothing to do with what is called international exchange on energy issues. Without any warning notice, those paragraphs will be fully valid after the control panel has been removed. For example, there is a bill for a law promised: Electrical law and Power Institute. And a bill entitled Electromagnetic Law. These bills are made by the highest level. Minister, Þórdís Kolb Kolbrún Reykfjörð Gylfadóttir and have arrived at the council program. Source projections have made changes in electricity laws to synchronize new European rules aimed at accessing the energy package. You have sometimes thought that this is all being done in the wrong order. First, we may need to change our laws in order to introduce regulations, but there is something that tells me that this action is deliberately performed in this way. Then the question arises: Is there a need to give warnings if we are told in the word that they have no value, that they have nothing to do with it? Yet, when we brought up the issue that the warnings were then, perhaps just a statement, a press release, or a declaration, we had no real legal value, although such statements certainly have some kind of political value. I wondered, since there is no intention of laying sea cables, at least not in a pack of three energy, as we are told. The paragraphs on which these warnings are addressed are just about that, but they do not concern us with the energy package. We need to realize, though, that the regulations that are being introduced are always higher than those of Icelandic law. That is, I think, an irrefutable fact that has come to pass. In spite of this, there is another situation and even worse, as noted in the opinion of lawyers Stefánsson Pálmsson and Friurik's Friðriksson Hirst, who are highly qualified and impartial experts, I would like to say. They argue that with the energy package, the state power is handed over to the international institution and is then in doubt whether it will last for the constitution. What, then, does that mean? That means that we will agree to the government to then put a cable in Iceland we have to break the Constitution for the current Regulation on a pack of three. That's how it hangs together. And then we have only two possibilities if any government in the future agrees to sea cables, i.e. ... tochangetheregistry or to resign us from the EEA Convention. I see my time is running out, I have to take the end of this later.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u351	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir The Year's Daughter for her speech and, at the same time, want to thank her for calling attention to this keen article of famous and well - known meteorologist, The Haraldur Son of Ólafsson, written on a tract called the NG. His comments are the most outstanding and most beneficial, so it is good to do so. A senator should draw attention to this, for as we know, many are watching. He writes the article under the title: "Why delay the energy package case? He says, with President's permission: It is best to give up the matter, but otherwise to postpone it until autumn. So, too, he says, with the permission of a president: ▪ The energy law team in the Norwegian Parliament will be adopted by September 23th. If this case is passed illegally, there is evidence to suggest that the matter will blow up, Iceland and Norway outside the European EMP, all without cause and for the benefit of many. Therefore, there is good advice to await the decision in Norway. I suppose that's what. A senator might agree with this, but I'd like to submit it to her. I would also like to thank all those who have sent us greetings and encouragement and in one of these received me this morning were told: This matter should, of course, be delayed until after the election. After all, I'm willing to add, no political party has acquired voters to promote this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u352	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much. To begin with something, I'm going to try to reach the final answer to the question. Senator. When we say that we might be handing over government, the senators in this hall will shake their heads and refuse to do so. However, the scribes Stefánsson and the Friðriksson Friðrik Hirst said this, and this is still in my mind a very valid conclusion, I'd like to say that, because I have not yet received the answer: Why is there a government consultation bill? Minister Katrín, daughter of Jakobsdóttir, of resources. It's about the constitution and all that. There must be some reason why we have come to that conclusion. I'm pretty sure it's all hanging out. Hv. The senator spoke about the need to postpone the case. I think people have come to that opinion in general. It is not enough to postpone the case because a conversation, such as it is now called, about the pros and cons and how we come to a conclusion, has to be carried out, how we simply defend our country's position in terms of energy. It is true that I did not notice that any political party had this subject. However, it seems always to have been in the pipes, on the other hand, there were many groups other than we in the Central Party who were aware of the route, such as. The current control categories were included. Perhaps the matter should simply be postponed until the next election, whenever it occurs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u353	Mr. President. I notice why. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir recalls that this matter was unacceptable during the last campaign, and it certainly did not. I'm gonna allow me to claim that all three members of the board have a policy that is different from that of their representatives at the Council, in order to hand over authority to the extent that is right here. I remind you of a statement made by the authors of the two civilizations, Friðrik of the Árni and Stefán Már, that the deed involved in this energy case is more than an example in the history of the EEA deal on our part. Mr. President, I would like to call attention to interesting comments in the subject at any given moment. A senator drew attention. With permission of the president, Haraldur Ólafsson says: A number of questions have been raised during the recent Council, both day and night. The questions depend on the mass consequences of entering the European Union's energy law, its consequences in energy for industry, nature and environment, foreign trade, and the European Union as a whole. Then there are supposed to be veiled in front of you, in order to be spoken out in a mild way. - A lot of things to say, I'll add. If you want to be taken seriously, you must try to answer the question that remains before you take a step that will be difficult to take. Mr. President. Let's run this energy package case, at least. To fall and remain until the election.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u354	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to answer the question, so it is true that all major members of the board - political conferences or what they are called, different names are on the subject, but these are the most diverse categories of organizations - have inferred the current way. And it's amazing that the government parties have changed their minds so carefully, I'd like to say, i.e. Groups of these political parties. I'm not quite sure that all people will follow in that journey. The fact that European groups at the council welcome this matter should, in effect, awaken the members of the board just to be dozey in order to have a careful look at the matter. You're right. One senator says that governments that want to be taken seriously must try to answer these questions. We have repeatedly called for answers because as we get deeper into the matter, more questions arise. They often want to happen when people take the time to study a matter. Of course I'll agree with what you're saying. The senator to postpone the case until autumn, at least until September 23, mentioned here as a date on the issues of Norway.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u355	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Year's daughter for a fine talk, and again, more depth comes from the discussion with new questions, new information that makes the matter deepen. When I listened to the talk, I put four points on my magazine. It's a legal premium, power supply, and then it was in the question of getting the authority of the public by their policies, whether or not we should postpone the case until the next election. I found this quite interesting, since much of the conclusions made by the main meetings of various classes are completely confused with what they recommend today. And then there's the resources. I was thinking before now how proud a man was to observe it at his time as a young man when we fought for our land weekend, 50 miles and then 200 miles. Then there was no such thing as National Pologism. I'd like to ask the senator, because we're talking about postponement, if it's not basic to answer this with the authority of the constitution, and then with the legal premise that is covered with mystery, as stated in the recent article quoted earlier, that the two issues will be exposed to light. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u356	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll Jónsson's victory for a great deal. It is clear that there has been no introduction in this case, at least not a presentation for those who would be needing a presentation, i.e. The public of the country. The majority of the nation is surveyed against the induction of a three - pack of energy. If there were to be a proper presentation of the whole case, perhaps there would be some basis for a firm approach to this grand case. It is also sobering to consider a potential source of power. At the moment, one of them says no and the other says yes, and then there's nothing more to talk about. There is no depth in what sides are relevant, even though we have repeatedly requested answers to do so. Then there are legal decisions. The premonitions are presented in political matters, with declarations of will and press releases and what all of this is now called. But they are not in the law. That's all we should tell us to wait for Norway and wait at least to the autumn to see what will happen to the warnings set there and whether they will in some way be considered non-sanction, not according to the proper way we have also discussed here, which is to refer the case to the joint EEA committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u357	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagle's Daughter for the best answers to these questions. Then I think, because the senator mentioned the presentation and results of the polls and what the nation thinks about this matter, the people I meet and hear, and who observe: What is the subject? On the basis of who holds the best talk, or who puts it best, instead of what it is, the matter often seems to be taken into consideration. There's more look than the content of the language. Therefore, I fully agree with the senator that a presentation of the language for the nation, for the people of the land, is absolutely necessary, so that those of us who are working on the national authority will find out how the nation feels about it if it is revealed about it. In the early stages of the case, there has been a reference to the sa·ra·loyʹpe method. We are witnessing it now, and that may well be what those who want such a case to be used to reduce their awareness of the matter. We've had very good cooperation through the EEA Convention, but we also need to realize that we're a nation of our own. Nobody does that for us. How could the senator imagine that this presentation would take place if we were talking about a delay in the case, until the fall? It's not a long time in the fall. How might we introduce the matter to the nation of Israel and improve it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u358	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much. Hv. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson came up with an excellent thought. The presentation needs to be well arranged and may be known to me, so not all need to agree but to weigh various viewpoints that may arise. Then people can draw conclusions from the way they handle matters. I don't know if national law is any good in this regard. Some will say that questions are too leading, so there is a great need to be done in that way. I'm sure we've tried our best here over the last few days to shed more light on a pack of three and then we've gone to the depth we've touched what follows, i.e. course four energy packets. I'm in a place where I'd like to learn more about a pack of energy because I realize that it's the same thing about him as a pack of three, that it should only be run through, as they say. You're absolutely right. A senator for the interests of all the countries involved in the EEA cooperation must be fundamental. It should be taken into account that it is done at the outset, but do not plan to try to fix things afterwards. We see that this is happening in Norway, and that is not a good way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u359	Mr. President. In this discussion, we members of the Central Party have repeatedly raised the need to learn from Norwegian experience. In view of the fact that there is a news report on the scene of the Norwegian Court, which will discuss the eight warnings in relation to the Norwegian constitution, this report is expected to be expected on September 23. To emphasize the deep - seated nature of all these matters, I would like to introduce to you the good authors of Friðrik Friðriksson Hirst and Stefán Már Stefánsson in their legal opinion of a particular court against Norway, the so - called Hjemkfall case. This is the judgment of the EFTA Court, and most recently it is reported that the ESA appealed this case against Norway. By permission of the President, the subject says: ▪ It was a law of Norwegian law dealing with permission to buy water rights. The decision on the case was different. to allow permission to purchase water rights for electricity production would be premature if they were granted enterprises considered to be officially under the law, but temporarily for other enterprises, including all foreign companies. The case further covered the same laws that recommend permission of enterprises other than those considered public being required for water rights and other assets related to electricity production, i.e. the construction and activation equipment, fell to the State to end the period of leave without paying compensation for the value of the vacancy. For an explanation, the two authors, by permission of the president, suggest: Since the start of Norway, civil rights may have been subject to private property, but foreign investors'interest in water supply was growing. The rules were set to deal with this trend. This is discussed in a matter of long ago in the opinion of the team, but time allows only to refer here to the conclusions. The subject is available on the Generals web. With the permission of a president, I'm going to refer to the subject on page 18. 12: It was denied that certain kinds of ownership rights in a system such as the Norwegian, which solely contributed to or held that the relative rights of property were fundamentally on public property, but gave the authorities at the same time free evaluation of whether private persons gain such rights. The Court's assessment was that the Norwegian arrangement was more likely to involve public management of water resources than their official ownership. This shows that the questions that can arise are many in relation to the energy issues we've been discussing over the past few days and actually nights. With the permission of a president, I intend to correct a statement I had last week when I reviewed governments in the 1970's and mentioned that the government of Geir Hallgrímsson was formed on September 28, 1974. Of course it was a miscommunication, Mr. President. It was and in fact in a fresh memory of August 28, that year. I hope that this correction reaches the conference in a proper formal manner after being corrected from the Allegorium.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u360	The president rejoices that members of Congress are preoccupied with having what is proved true in each case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u361	A respectable president. I have, although removed, observed over 90 hours of the Central Party discussion on this important matter, the introduction of the third energy package. I'm sure there's a lot I can do about it. The members of the Central Party are uncertain, the concerns they are concerned about, and that at all times members of the council have discussed the matter, they have not been able to answer the questions themselves that they have repeatedly asked here. In view of the evidence on the matter, this gives rise to a number of surprises. I'd be interested, though it's not directly related to a speech. A senator who was brought here first, in case. In short, a senator could tell me what the main concern of the members of the Central Party is and what if they alone, the nine members of this hall, were so deeply concerned about the case when 54 of their colleagues in this same hall seem to count the matter completely and fully and ready for votes here so that the will of Generalis may be revealed. I'd appreciate it if I did. A senator could briefly inform me, certainly it is not a long time to do so here, what these main concerns are, especially in view of the fact that all the administrative experts who were called on to discuss the matter, and in the reviews of that at the preparatory stage there were in all doubt that the payment of this procedure was in the way the Council of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u362	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It is good to tell you that I spoke some time ago, perhaps even before noon, over a factor that I consider very important to me in this issue that remains. It is not for us to answer the questions we ask, as could be understood in the case of the senator. However, we have pointed out that answers are not found in the evidence or in the case of a minister when he was involved here. Friday. So I'll give you a few examples, the legal defence is on the wrong side. His search may not have been complete, or at least it may have been complete. Not safe. It is also not certain what would be behind him to the national commitment that we bear by accepting this concierge decree, which includes the introduction of individual types of energy in this pack. Another issue is that there has not been a clear answer to our judgment why it is not possible to look for an exception in creating Regulation 783/2009, in view of the fact that there is no electrical connection between us and Europe, just as we were given an exception because of our special status in natural gas. We have an exception to that. We've mentioned a number of other factors here. Because of how little time I have, I say, we need to know what's in a pack of four energy and how it's connected to a pack of three. We need to learn a lesson from Norwegian experience. We need to figure out yesterday's news about planning to put a sea cable here and such things. [[The president calls.]] These are many important questions, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u363	President. He's in a lawsuit. The members of the Central Party have repeatedly been referred to by Stefánsson Mástsson, professor of the University of Iceland's Law, and Friðrik's Árni Friðriksson's Hirst, and in his letter to the minister of foreign law, they handed the same experts out of interpretation. The model of their design that, first of all, there was no legal question that the method proposed to be in accordance with the constitution, and that this is the most important thing, and that the defects they considered on this route were merely to see if the uptake or induction of the model in this way would be an indication for an examination by the half of the ESA they consider unlikely. It is specifically reserved for the legal warning so extensive that it can be found in a law bill at the highest level. A traveling and industrial minister for the work programme. [[The president calls.]] I don't understand why the Central Party's repeated search has made little of this legal notice. The answers made by the experts that the Central Party repeatedly referred to where it is to be found. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u364	Mr. President. I hear what you're saying. A senator claims one of many theories on where the warning is found. This is one of many delivered here. Hv. A senator referred to the two - man letter dated April 10th. Their declaration on the first team refers to a possible collision with a constitution. All right, they've explained, in particular, the Friðrik Árni in an interview with the web server at the moment, that in this way a postmortem is delayed and, in fact, the regime's problem was introduced into the future. There is another problem, however, and they explain it. Hv. A senator correctly stated that they had said in his letter that they thought it was unlikely that ESAs would protest, but they brought up the matter in their opinion that we could face a damage case on the part of a foreign company because of a violation of the contract. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator is fully able to imagine what sums of money he could be playing if we lost such a language that they apparently do not consider far away from the page - now I can't exactly remember the pages. Excuse me, Mr President, this is in footnote 62.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u365	The President is still on trial again. Senators are worth deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u366	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Oleaf, Ólafur of Ísleifsson, very much for his speech. He covered the court in Norway, the ESA sentence that discussed permission to buy water rights. I ask myself, " Am I falling into the same pit in a country where we have become uncomfortable with the fact that all kinds of people, especially foreign people, have been buying land? ' They often buy out land that has the potential for triggering streams and rivers that flow through the earth. It is known that 9.9 MW inducers, if I remember correctly, can be installed without environmental assessment and at the time of recovery, such activation can be extended to 30 MW. I can see that this is a very, very, very good time for someone who wants to have a water rights and has something to say about their affairs. See what? A senator realizes that such a judgment or such a procedure, I don't know what to use, could be here on the land if we didn't try this induction?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u367	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagle Daughter for the counter-sponsored. What I believe is the essence of this matter, which it says here is that we are in danger, is not correct, that there should be a legal case raised against us. On the other hand, it is treatalized, but it is a harmful case. These possibilities are tore up in the opinion of Friðrik The Árni of Frildursson Hirst and Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson. We have received reports of the efforts of British investors that seem to have done significant preproduction work, and it is informed that this matter has been in preparation for the past few years, and it has been reported in the media that Icelandic advisers are working for the sake of this society, as well as that financing is far off if not strictly committed. I won't judge it anyway. In view of this, we are faced with the question found in the footnote that I quoted in answer to the reason. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Víglundsson just now. Although I didn't write pages, I can remember her number, No. 62. It raises the possibility that an enterprise that had sought permission for connections and received a revelation from the Power Institute could have such a damage problem. They make it clear that they may feel that the odds are not on our side of such a situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u368	V.E.G. President. That's just an amazing thing to do. Now we have two interesting scenarios in Norway, on the one hand, to be warned on September 23, Norway, and on the other hand, this judgment is a court order that says we should be careful. Hv. A senator spoke about British investors. It is not enough that they have already provided funding. Rather, they have arranged their affairs so that they can gain strength from the European Union. It is all so clear that we are not going to be careful. I want in. A senator who believes that the trade of foreign parties here will play some business.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u369	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. There are two striking factors that make humans want to pause and ask thought - provoking questions. On the one hand, they are at home as food. A senator, including one of the other members of the foreign community, and then a number of applications for study releases for hydropower and wind energy activation, especially by smaller forms, up to a maximum of 10 MW in force, and then a license for activation. I've been asking about these things. Prime Minister in the written inquiry that I expect to hear a reply soon enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u370	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Ísleifsson For an illuminating speaker, the Ólafur of Islemasusa was given. The Senator entered a court hearing in Norway that deals with water rights and so forth. We're talking about the Norwegian experience of bringing in the package since they accepted it, which is actually a short period of time, and what we can learn from that brief experience. I'd like to ask the senator what lesson we can learn from the Norwegian experience of the package induction. Similarly, when the senator was in opposition to what happened, I thought of him. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn Víglundsson who asked, if I put it this way, "What are you afraid of about the package?" Isn't this all enlightened? I thought why. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Is remnantson does well in the basics of an answer. We don't have much time. What may have been missing and I would like to ask the senator: "We talk about how the nation is divided in half with this energy package, that the nation has opinions about what is right and what is wrong. We were here to introduce it to the people, and I think it sounds very good. However, it would have to be ratheretinomatic so that there would be an informative introduction to the facts. Is it not something that we have an obligation to inform the nation? Because the people trust the political bitch but listen to the facts.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u371	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir He Sigurður Páll Jónsson's answer. It closed the polls on public opinion, people in general, toward this energy package. This has now been the case with two polls that I'm known to be familiar with. On the one hand, a survey by the MMR company carried out such tests and then a radio - network poll. I'm just going to say that I don't even place these two researches at all because it's important that you follow the game rules of probability and higher statistics. Then the first factor is the random selection of the sample. This is a perfect prerequisite for taking note of these types of surveys. The enterprises that are specialized in the type of the polls work naturally on the basis of this principle. Then there are all sorts of studies where people choose themselves into the sample, i.e. You can choose for yourself whether to participate in the survey. This is what makes the survey unscrupulous, in fact unscrupulous. Then she has become more of a social event and has nothing to do with studying, enjoying, and perhaps having some sense of direction. In other words, the last study I know was a scientific study of MMR, and it showed that 62% of the responders were opposed to the approved energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u372	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for this study. I'm just an innocent choir boy from Stykkisolmi, so I'm not very good at the polls or their appearance. I want to believe that they shed light on what people think, and I think somehow they can just be right, but I'm sure they're not that simple. As I said before, people are very bickering about their position of taking because there is much more to question than answers. We, who have paid attention to this, have been adding questions, and we need answers. Here, the conference hall is almost empty unless we middle class are here and we want answers from the government and those who are involved in various questions, but they are not involved. [[The president calls.]] So the second question is just that: Is it not necessary for us to have the answers we have been asking about? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u373	Mr. President. I simply agree with what. Senator. These answers are vital because the questions are urgent. They are important, they are important, they involve a constitution, they involve our participation in European cooperation. They touch the nation's resources. These are basic questions. In some ways, we have been talking about questions that might pose a potential danger to us about possible speech offers. The danger was suddenly much higher yesterday as a result of the news that there were British investors gray for irons off the shores of the country preparing to land a sea cable here and the money that's playing in such a case would be guessable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u374	V.E.G. President. A recent article quoted earlier was quoted from Haraldur, son of Ólafsson, and it was very up - to - date to read that article. I would like to quote an article from the same man who, in fact, is six months old, but I think it will last forever. In effect, Haraldur refers to the European ambassador. By permission of the President: The fields that are set for Iceland's decision to submit to the European Union's energy legislation are first of all that it is brilliantly good for consumers. The ambassador's concern for consumers in Iceland is certainly admirable, but he can be sure that the International Council and other governments are fully capable of securing consumer interests, and if there is something missing there, the citizens of the country can choose a new Council. It is called democracy, and it works better than the way of hiding foreign citizens. Then the ambassador points out that the Norwegians will get into trouble if the Icelanders don't live under the law. The Norwegian may be viewed as fools in the environment of the ambassador, but that is a problem with the experience of the writer. If Norwegians want to know, they will not be in any difficulty in handing up all the power they want, without the guidance and help of the Icelanders. In fact, the vast majority of Norwegians do not care for the energy law column, so it is expected that the number of friends of Norway will increase if the case is lost. Most important, the ambassador says that part of the EEA contract may be temporarily invalid. He's probably referring to earlier energy groups. It is easy to see how important it is for the Icelanders and the European Union to drop them. If the ambassador means that the rest of the EU contract is equal to those with energy, it's fair to say that he's more vulnerable to threats and not to compromise. It's even here. It is noted that the EU ambassador was called as a candidate for the best interests of Iceland's servants. Such opinions have been prominent recently. Such methods as calling those who have the warnings of isolationists, popu lists, and the worse. It is not unknown that some political groups believe that our interests are best paid to enter the EU. Others, like me, want to have a good relationship with other nations. However, I wondered, " What journey are the governments, who have so gently stepped to the earth? ' In this regard, though, the conclusions they have given at meetings are at odds with the policy they have taken in, and I refer to the independence party and the forward party. Government party members, in effect, intend to violate their own policies. I'm asking why. Is this really true, so that national interests are not guided? Who Should Benefit? Probably the electricity companies, the current markets, and the non-employed enterprises for electricity efficiency and otherwise linked. While the funds will be made at first, there is a danger that the government will sacrifice the manufacturing sector. If our competitive stand worsens, our national losses will be great. I also pointed out that for some time, foreign investors seem to be very interested in foreign investors in foreign purchases. The lower inducers are not required for environmental assessment due to their small size, but if all of these activates are combined, they are an enormous amount. Even now, experimentation with so - called deep fevers has begun, but it may seem that in the future this will be further. I allow me to quote the report of the business magazine, May 28, 2019, by permission of a president: In Iceland, including for the European Union's 2020 Project, the European Union's largest research and development program, held around the concentration of geological engineering projects. The project of about 80 billion euro, or equivalent to 9,750 billion dollars, has to play between 2014 and 2020. Further, it says in another place, by permission of the president: The Deepeg project is led by Orcs, which received 20 million euro strengths from the European Union Protocol, Horizon 2020. The work of Iceland is also involved in the development of the European Union, a deep - seated project on Smokejanes, and another deep - seated development in France. This is a work of cooperation in which one learns well from another, even though it had only a hiccup in it on the grounds of permit and so forth in France. This is just what's going on right now. V.E.G. President. What has mainly been missing in recent discussions - of course, I will be excluded from our media class or those who have addressed the matter - is to publish a set of scenarios as to what might be involved in the induction of the third energy package. They are many, and of course they depend largely on whether the stakeholders will test their rights, should be implemented, and will use themselves to get laid here. The legal premise, which is said to exist, but apparently not found, will probably not remain. What, then, is the situation? One stage could be this: The company Atlantic SuperConnection, which has described the plans to produce electrical cables in Northern Ireland and put it in Iceland, is sure to expect the European Court to take up the affairs of electrical integrations in Iceland. The United States government has opposed this project after its introduction to a pack of energy, three can certainly expect charges against the EFTA Court. In other words, there has been a violation of the EEA Convention and a requirement for damages to the Icelandic government for unnecessary efforts to start a lucrative business. Clearly, the General is creating a great degree of justice if it relieves the administrative notice of a pack of three energy. It should be noted that the Friðrik Friðriksson Hirst and Stefán Már Stefánsson have already warned of this danger in their appeal program since 19 March 2009. Any of these things happen, or exactly, they've opened the Pandora case. We'll see a rising electrical supply for companies and homes. For example, an internal power market assumes that one market value. Understandably, garden farmers are concerned that electrical prices will come true from the market. Our special position in various productions where we have enjoyed offering cheap, renewable energy will lead to land production. What would happen to all the available data in this country? Though this scene is ugly, it is real, if anything goes wrong. We must not let this happen to any Icelandic nation. We must always remember that we are a nation in the EEA. There are 400 million people there. There are many major investors, who run an eye for our electricity. So there is no better way than to reject the third energy package, activate the 102. g. in the EEA Convention, taking up the case on the joint committee. It is not papalism, isolationism, or anything like that. That is responsible, sensible, and wise, and what we members of Congress should do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u375	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. He was a busy man, and much interesting was in his speech. First, I want to name Norway, which he wrote about. It is also interesting to review the words of the spokesman for the Ministry of State and Foreign Affairs in this case, Carls Baudenbachers, former judge of the EFTA Court and current advisers in this field. Of course, Carl Baudenbacher's group is of interest to many things. It is primarily legal, but it has a political party that is interesting. He says in his opinion that the Norwegian look at Iceland as a very minor item in the EEA deal. There seems to be a number of indications, Mr. President, that the Norwegians are exerting considerable pressure on the Icelandic government to accept this energy package. In fact, Baudenbacher says that when it comes to the EEA deal, the Icelanders are obliged to accept everything they think of. If it's true, it's pretty serious. Compared to what happened. A senator went through, I'd like to ask him if he senses what he has learned that perhaps the Norwegians are putting pressure on the Icelanders to accept the energy package. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u376	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir For answer the Birgir of Þórarinsson. Yes, our Uncle Norse. Sometimes cousins are the worst, but they're also good. I told them at some point when we were arguing about the invasion of Iceland in the EU that since Ingólfur Arnarson had come from Norway, he would certainly not have sailed to Iceland and studied there to join the European Union a few years later. I think that even if we are small, we need to maintain our self - respect, in our low self - esteem. We must not feel inferior to our own advantages and the great, precious, priceless resources we possess. This includes the hydropower that I would say is essential and, as I said this morning, the vertebral device of our resources. It's the hydropower. We're just talking about her in this case, it's so big that half would be enough. The Senator mentioned Carl Baudenbacher, that he even looked in Iceland as an extra point, but we were obliged to produce this energy package. I'm just saying let's get out of my back and stand by ourselves. [[The president calls.]] We're not related. We make decisions based on our own interests in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u377	Mr. President. Thank you. When a senator says that we must be proud of our actions and maintain our rights even if we are small, he will respond with a complete heart. We are indeed a small nation in the international community, but we are a sovereign nation who has every right to refuse to bring the matter into existence and to ask for permanent release. Similarly, we must not be intimidated for obedience, as it were. Norway has a clear shake of the fact that the matter is now here at the council and does not cross the council, as may be expected. I have wondered, " Is it surprising that someone who has come to this matter what the Central Party has held up a powerful case against it? ' If you look further into Baudenbacher's opinion, he says that even with Iceland and Liechtenstein, we're actually in a role of some kind, mostly Norway, who's in charge of the EEA community. In many ways it is possible to do so because, of course, Norway is the grieving part of this contract. But that doesn't make us party to him and have our legal rights. I just want to say the word. A senator says that we should stand firm and not be bent, even though the Norwegians are concerned that this will not go through the council quickly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u378	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for this. There was no direct question in the counter, but the senator appealed to what the person here referred to, to self - respect, and to stand up in the back, and to the other sort of thing that we are doing in this matter, all the questions come from which all the questions can be made. What we have often quoted in talks is 102th and 103th. in the contract to return to the EEA joint committee. They'll help us. It won't upset the EEA deal. We've been informed. Actually, it hasn't been put to the test since 1992 when the contract was recorded, but once everything will be first. Why not put it to the test now in such an enormous case? I'd say this was one of the biggest cases we've ever had since we made the EEA deal. The Senator introduced the powerful language of men and women who have opposed this case and clearly, as well as I've been following it - I've just come from a vacation - in the media as to the depth of that presentation, the increase in questions, and more information on opinion. While there is talk of filament, it is not that there is evidence to support the debate. This is just a necessary discussion to inform and to get the questions that always arise in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u379	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll, the son of Jónsson, was victorious for his fine speech. He speculates about various forms of friendship, including, e.g. The institutions of political parties, which are the core of each political party that keeps regular meetings together, place some lines and the following emphasis, if you can say so. It's remarkable that the government groups, at least an expansive party, good if not left greens too, had everyone in their own way not to bring in a pack of energy. We can take it together that way when they turn down the resources they're supposed to be dealing with. But it will certainly happen now that we produce a pack of three energy, followed by a pack of four. It has been observed that in Norway, too, we can call it political, since the right category is the European category with Erna Solberg as prime minister. There's a lot of things going on in there. I want in. A senator will determine if he is not fully aware that we must ask for a postponement of our affairs until the result of what is going on in Norway.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u380	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagle Daughter for the counter-sponsored. It came to the conclusions of the main meetings that are now in the government, and they are in a state of confusion regarding the outworking of the case and the route of the case. She listed three categories, independence party, forward party, and left green. You've been thinking about what you're doing. They say they've already been convinced that the case is bulletproof. Then it has been shown that these models are almost just a doll. They stand alone and do not feel at all, and they also have some kind of shelter, not a good idea to find them. Yes, procrastination is our minimal requirement as opposed to this matter, any delay until autumn. This was shown earlier that it was appropriate to have a postponement past the next General election. Then the nation, those having the right to vote, could choose their opinion on this matter. But as I said before, people aren't exactly shot in politics today. They want more facts.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u381	V.E.G. President. I thought why. A senator makes a good point earlier when he discussed that we had a legal cooperation through the EEA Convention. That's exactly what it is. Then the question is, Is it more legal than political or if we can equal it? We've been on the EFTA political declaration, and that bus draws a European company to Norway. It's a little interesting to wonder if it's that way with our board of directors. None of them are now the European Party, I know, even though they are moving faster into it as obvious. Are we being taken? I want to ask you why. A senator to see if we are blinding ourselves as we have a right European class in Norway. Is he putting us in his best interests? Are we like the horse with blindness to the side and not able to see the bigger picture and just be distracted?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u382	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for this question. Their shields are often put aside by their eyes in horses so that they can see straight ahead. They can't see anything out of them. In this regard, there may well be an excellent comparison when discussing the matter with those who wish to pass it through. I totally agree with that. This is unfortunate because we have everything to do with these matters at home. We've built up electricity production and electricity transport. Although electrical security is lacking, it is a fairer way. We do not need to be guided or controlled by another person. We can totally handle it ourselves. It's one thing to work together and another thing to be told. When a man makes a deal, he is made conscious of both and then both parties maintain self - respect. It's not that you have a contract to give up your soul, you must have it. I feel that if we go in this way, we're selling our soul. It's just that it's not good enough at all. We're a nation of our own, and we're supposed to stay that way. We're supposed to be proud of it. Being in good cooperation with other nations does not mean that we have to give up our authority to them, although in some matters, in small measure, and not in this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u383	Mr. President. I'm going in my speech to enter the interests of the public briefly from the induction of a third energy package. It was stated in the early stages of the case that under much interest in the country's homes and with the middle-class skeptics, it would be putting a stone in the way that the land's home would be prepared with more efficient energy and less prices, safe delivery safety, and so forth. It took a while for Tossa to be out of the government and representatives of the energy package and his supporters here at the council what was meant in this context. For a long time, increased consumer protection and transparency were spoken of. It was good and blessed, but it was difficult to apply the evidence in the case. But the only answer, I think I can allow myself to say, which came up from the highest level. The minister of foreign affairs so that, in an acceptable way, it would be the last Friday when he came to our meetings for the third time - and now I'm going to read from the highest answers. Secretary of state that started at 2 p.m. 17,51 last Friday, for those who wish to look it up. It says to the secretary, by permission of the president: ▪ Hv. A senator asks about consumer security, but this extra autonomy is the energy monitoring of the Power Management Agency. The improved environment of the country's households is, in effect, increasing the independence of the European Environment Agency, the market of the Rapporteur. All that is available in the evidence regarding the effects of the changing Power status in your home is an increase in monitoring costs. That's all there is. The secretary continues, with the permission of the president: That's what it's all about. This increased monitoring of the Power Agency is what the public interests of the world go through. It's a little thin in public interest. And the Minister goes on. ▪ The current electronic watch is able to obtain more authority to push and monitor these factors. I have to say, I expected more with regard to the interests of the country's homes, since this point was so thoroughly solved, as it was. With increased monitoring costs, little experience is assured, but the actual cost of monitoring increased. V.E.G. Minister said in the same answer, in the previous paragraph, 2 mgr. The answer for those who look this up, by permission of the president: ... and prices have been reduced according to two sources assessment. - So he's referring to the effects of energy input package one and two. The energy exchange factor has dropped, but because we've been involved in construction of manure activities, and so the transport factor has increased. Of course, what matters to our homes in the country is the total amount of the electricity bill. What is involved in the implementation of these rules will be increased by the development of new organisations in energy production which will not be permitted to cover the costs of this structure directly to those people requiring the building need. The cost will be spread by consumers in the country, just as the minister answered here, with honesty and fairness, when he said that because we had carried out constructions and so on, the transport factor would have increased. This is a core point, i.e. each total cost of domestic households is due to its electricity consumption, not to a single drop while another major increase is occurring.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u384	So that three down. Congress officials have requested a reply, and a review may well be made, although there may not be an urgent need for this after more than 100 hours of public speaking, in the event of a later round statue for a minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u385	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. It presents a very important issue in the implementation of the energy package and the consequences of the energy package so far, i.e. One and two, for the benefit of the people of the land. We've been through this and I've done it in my speeches, and I've shown that the electricity prices for households and businesses in the country have increased considerably since we took up the EU directives by creating a energy package 1, changing electricity law 2003, and then we've entered this facility here and now we need to introduce a pack of energy that includes an even greater step, which is taking part in a common market in Europe. We heard in speeches when the induction was back in time from those who were anti-energy packages alone when introduced in 2003, people were not interested in the market of national electricity systems. There were left greens in the lead, and they voted against it. Of course, you want to congratulate them on this. But then, for some reason, they are involved in further markets. So there is an enormous contrast in their language in this regard. But what I wanted to do was come inside. A senator in this regard is that the words of officials and ministers at that time were not to be trusted. It was claimed that the electrical price would not go up. Then, the industrial minister did it. Then came the second day. Is it not reasonable, then, that we cannot count on them for reasons? Senators and Ministers have said here that a pack of three energy doesn't come to have any effect? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u386	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For answer the Birgir of Þórarinsson. In this context, I'm going to allow myself to say that the moves are frightening. There's a reason. If we look at the politicians that have come to mind, by reason of the field, politicians who have been a member of Congress as members of the Council or Ministers, most of the Ministers of the group I am thinking of, if we look at the former Ministers involved in matters that turned to the induction of energy boxes one and two, and some in relation to the EEA contract at the time, we have turned on a very large number of the former Ministers. The vast majority of those involved in the discussion of the induction of the third energy package have moved to a group of skeptics. In fact, it is only one, perhaps two, who have moved to the arm to support the induction of the third energy package. The vast majority, even of the old group, have turned to the curve of being cautious, afraid, and here we are dealing with a case that is not presponsible to drive through in a way that the government is obviously trying to do. But so far, there is no way. I think that's gonna answer, at least. partially, ask why. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u387	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. What I find interesting about, too, if you look at the history of the case from the beginning, there are mail exchanges that were carried out in the current industrial and commercial department, e.g. of 2001 that discuss house - to - house subsidies. It says, by permission of the president: ▪...the object of subsidies has greatly increased as energy companies are now taking out electrical energy for the heating of an apartment building. (7) Then, by permission of the President, we add: Then, the order of energy issues to be produced will likely require changes in these rules. It's not even the Ministry that makes it clear whether this affects the house warming or not. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to add and say something to what. A senator: Isn't this the essence of the matter, that we don't know the effect this will have on those who have just been wronged? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u388	Mr. President. I think, unfortunately, there are a lot of factors in what has been said about the third energy package so far. That's interesting. A senator entered his opponent just before, and I had not done any investigation. However, since the current government has been called after setting up the scenarios, which are likely to affect different times of the third energy package, it is of interest that at the time, at the time of the first energy package, it is already shown that there is a very small idea or a feeling about the outcome. I assume that the staging analysis was just as moderate then as it is going to be now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u389	A respectable president. That especially attracted my attention. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason quoted the highest. Minister of State from his visit here to the council a few days ago. I tried to keep track of it as high as I could. A minister said as much as possible, but he probably had to turn me aside for a bit when they spoke out. A senator quoted them as being killed. I find them very interesting and perhaps somewhat vivid in what way it is the highest. Minister is approaching this case. When asked for what is involved in the consumer protection of the third energy package, it refers to the independence of the Power Institute. I was reminded of the highest. A minister had said, with some thieving, during the first siege. on this matter: What exactly are you opposed to? Are you against the independence of the Power Agency? You wonder if it can be at the top. The minister of foreign affairs does not know why they are changing the Power Institute law and establishing its so-called independence. It refers to independence from democratic elected representatives, independence from the public, and voters in the country, so that the Agency can, not become a state of the State, but to become part of this European conglomerate, become a so-called national rule. In other words, there is one energy agency in every country that is infested, I think there is no overhistory when it comes to the implementation of the ACER Institute, the common European institution. Could be that, hey. A senator at the highest. The minister of foreign affairs simply hasn't put two and two together in this matter? [[The president calls.]] .
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u390	Mr. President. You do not want to believe that this is the case, but you do have a visit. Secretary of state. Friday, together, did nothing to calm us of the skeptics on the induction of the third energy package and, if anything, more determined on their view that it would be necessary to take a few steps back and take a closer look, postpone it until the fall. I said in a radio interview, last night at the Ripple was absolutely certain, they're running a little together for so little now, that's where the power of it was. The minister of the foreign minister Þór Þórðarson had the opportunity to turn us off completely from the Middle Class if he had just come up and answered questions, presented reasons for his position and the government, and in effect left us at the point where few questions remained. The least I could say was that his aim, which I give myself, was completely screwed up. It probably couldn't have been messed up, because after the visit, it would have been the worst. In the first place, there were more questions than when he came here, and in fact, he had added to the feeling that men had not thought the matter through but had, as the former head of the Independence Party, Þorsteinn's Felt Pálsson, called it, to get to the level of praiseworthy deception in the case, intended to draw a rabbit out of the hat and make the problem go away.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u391	A respectable president. This seems to be the case, and more and more evidence shows that the government and its support groups - and when I say support groups, I'm not just talking about the government groups, but, in fact, all other classes at the General Assembly than the Central Party - have no conviction of the case but had to be told that it had to be run through, men had come through with the so - called praiseworthy deception. The danger is that of forming a dog. The members of the Independence Party now feel trapped, locked up in this position. Then there's my question. A senator: Is there anything we can do to free them, let them out, and let them take their stand in harmony with the stand that many of them had expressed?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u392	Mr. President. What can be done to make the matter easier for members of the Independence Party who are sure to feel bad about it now after beginning to escape alleged warnings? It's been found to be the highest. The minister of foreign affairs probably had not thought of all the factors to come to an end. Now I'm just in charge of the answers, or not the answers that came on Friday. That's a very good question. I think it's important. But I have to admit that I don't have an answer to that question at the moment, but I will certainly soak my head in the next few hours for a man to find a way, for our benefit, out of this unfortunate situation that they brought himself into trouble. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u393	V.E.G. President. I'm glad to see a president so excited about the President's chair. It was of great interest that the above statements may be given to skeptics who had serious doubts first in this matter, e.g. Yeah. Members of the Independence Party, a chance to re-program and read a little more. I can't remember any better than that. to the maximum. The president who now sits was completely unconvinced when he discussed this matter at his time at the council, never so lacking, usually follows his words with great conviction. But this time, I felt that he was a distant subject. I believe that this matter has been rather hooked on by people like when you drink a bitter cup. There is the proper secretary of state for the Party of Independence... a bitter cup. I don't know if he's taken the company on the altar, but he has given him a bitter cup. It's been a matter of taking the team by themselves, as it stands. But I'm not sure that my mind will follow through. And I'm not sure about that, but now that it turns out that the greater part of the nation is against it. I hope to the highest. Presidents and other good independents have met their platoons. Saturday, on the 90th anniversary of the Independence Party, I did not tire of congratulating them, and have heard down on the good people how they feel about this mechanism. I'm sorry, I haven't wondered about it, but I hope that this good birthday party has been rather quiet, but I hope, at any rate, that there was a lunch that was given to a nation's affairs only to harden themselves on the case. I'd like a little reflection. Senator on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u394	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's answer. I give myself that all members of the council that support the induction of the third energy package hear from their supporters, their backlands. Left green, I think it's grass root. Independence calls it the backland. I don't know what the candidates call it, because at the moment they seem to be participating in an Icelandic champion of silence. But in view of the tone that comes to us in the Middle Ages, and from all directions, there are not just middle-class supporters -- in my case, contact me with people who say hello, says that there is no particular chance that the person will choose the Central Party for the next election but will ask us to continue for a while and see if their men don't take sides. Now I'm gonna try to answer. I think I've got a solution for it right now. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson asked for an answer before what? paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson. I think the answer for all the members of the board, I expect the members of the Continental Parliament and the Environment Action will be frustrated, is to take the matter off, not just to let others do it, and then to finish a discussion about it after that, but to postpone it until the fall of the council. As everybody knows, there is no timeweight in this case. I think that everyone would feel better by giving the case more time to consider. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u395	V.E.G. President. I think we're right next door. Senator. If you first talk about the Independence Party, I believe that taking this case off a program to consider it better would be a better birthday to a party on the 90th birthday than a three-year-old energy pack. I think it's a rather loose birthday pack. Here, I remember when you were little and had a birthday, you didn't like soft packages. But I have reason to believe that the common independents don't like this birthday. As for the left green, I don't quite realize that. Looks like they've become the number one markets. But like what? A senator said about the advance party, which now has belts and bracelets, in overalls, and with the creamed wigs, and on new shoes, I don't think the disguise dress is enough to make the party members take their joy out of this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u396	Mr. President. Sounds like a Senate would agree with my proposal. It's a question of whether the highest. The president is now not taking the matter off every session until the fall. At least I haven't heard any objections in this room for the last few minutes, and I have plenty of opportunities. I've wondered, " What would be the most practical solution? ' In the Middle Ages, we have repeatedly suggested that the matter would be canceled and then resumed, but somehow it seems to me that the most reasonable solution, very much for many reasons and for the anguish of a large number of councils, is postponing the case until the fall. We need more attention. There's too much unclear. There are too many questions left, and the solution is to postpone the case until the fall. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u397	V.E.G. President. I only got out of the way this morning, so I didn't hear the landmark speech of the head of Stockholm, who was originally involved with me and the Middle Class and myself in the rest of the third pack of energy. This morning, however, it was as if a group of people had turned around. The head of the party said it was impossible for small groups to take a hostage. Great men are we, my Humphrey, standing somewhere. But the dissidents of our middle class in this matter are not merely of that, but because more and more of our people are opposed to this matter. We have received encouragement from all over the world. Because by nature it is not a group of political issues and should not be. It's a lot more important than it's supposed to be stuck in some class lines. Sadly, however, other members of a council have dug a ditch between them and the people and hang on the canal, despite the fact that the nation is on the opposing side of this matter. So it is natural to wonder whether a group of people might simply change his name, for he is not standing with the people in this struggle, even though he did it in the first place, but he did it badly. Somehow, Mr President, when you're in politics, you have to try to build up some endurance. The president of the council is now investigating the progress of the Central Party and is finding out gradually, each day and night. But away from what the media have held out, such as the state media who had a news report from the General this morning on a tablet that reminded me somewhat of a scoreboard in Eurosion. It specified how many speeches the Middle Class would have kept and for how many minutes but nothing on the content, nothing, which is very interesting because I am quite convinced that the people at home in the living room are exactly no matter how many talks we've given each one or how long they've been. But I'm almost sure that many of those people want to know what we said, if they've missed the talks. Of course, there are many people, such as the highest. The president knows that he's been following this up all night and day. From the reaction to what we receive from the fine people, it seems that they are keeping a good eye for the discussion, and they are not easily bored. While men refuse to be heard in this matter and do not listen to the national will - it's good now that there's a former journalist here and now he is. This includes Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, in the hall; once there was a magazine on Thors Street that spoke a great deal to the nation, never had anything to do with elections, but always spoke for the people. But it may well be that we have not had the most part in elections, but we do know that in this matter the will of the nation is very clear and that we speak into it. That's what people have been talking about, e.g. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Mr. President, not the one sitting right now, but the highest. The president of the council, that one of the basic principles of the Senate is a case such as this is being handled by Congress and votes. That's right. It's one of the basics of the Senate. But it is one of the basics of democracy to listen to the majority of people's will and to try to honor and honor them and to follow them. People often downplay the public, feel I, all too often, because the Icelandic public is well-lit, people who know what they want and know what they don't want, Mr. President. And it doesn't want the third energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u398	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. She was interesting. I have to agree with that. A senator that I have felt a keen interest in our presentation at the council and know that an amazing number have made contact, claiming to be watching the channel of the Generals and find these discussions interesting. It's a pleasure. Likewise, it is strange to do what is right. Councilmen present themselves at the council's office and criticize the fact that the Central Party is here on business discussions. Because this discussion is perplexing. There have been new information, such as yesterday, very important, new information that is important to this relationship. Surprisingly, no other senator would be interested in this new information. They should come up here and discuss this new information because it is important. We see that the cable is far beyond anything and the induction of the third energy package is designed to open that way, as we know, and to facilitate the introduction of the sea cable, which leads to the loss and true custody of these issues because of the activation of the third energy package, this directive. But I wanted to tie it in with what I was thinking. A senator asks if he does not find it unusual for us in the Central Party to be the only members of the council who support this chemical presentation and, for example, this. In view of new information, no one should come from here, e.g. These are the members of the management team, and they will review new information. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u399	V.E.G. President. In these brief discussions, we have long called for representatives of other classes to come to our meetings, even though only to tell us where we have strayed from this matter. It hasn't happened. Then there's something else, like what happened. A senator rightly says that new information has been received. I can't remember what this navigating company is called, whether it's Atlantic SuperConction or something like that. I apologize to the president, but I don't think the name of this thing is in Icelandic on the website. On the website of that company, it says that this company has a very good relationship with a minister in Iceland, on the contrary. This may well be an illustration of the fusion I've said had been made between the left green and the independent party. I'm not quite sure which party has taken over the other. At least it's not a hostile takeover. That's for sure. It's very peaceful. It can't get between the knife and the knife. And then there's the natural advance team, along with the overall taste pants, with belts and shoulders, and a creamy wig, a hairpiece, and a new pair of shoes. Together, these three groups seem to be, according to the latest news, getting Iceland directly involved with Europe's electrical system, the country's damage. And they are surprised that the middle class wants to talk about it. In fact, I would challenge these senators to come to a meeting and at least tell us where we are so badly lost in this discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u400	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. This raises many questions. And like a cot. A senator rightly mentioned this company that was reported yesterday - a British easyman - that I believe, who is interested in laying down a sea cable and who has done it pretty well, as it were, financing, and so on. In Britain, he sees a great deal of employment opportunities as a result of the project. Then it turns out that he has a good relationship here in Iceland. He has a so-called P.R. here, which shows that there's a big deal behind this. Of course, this raises questions when such powerful people are in contact with the Icelandic government, informalally, clearly. I think it's safe to say that at least... has happened some conversation. In such cases, it is important to inform people if so, because it really is important in this discussion. If this directive is sent to the joint EEA Commission, rejected here, it will clearly cause a tremor among these parties. They may see to it that possibly it could happen that Iceland would receive a permanent release. Then their whole plan would be upset. Then you might ask: Is it possible that we are under pressure that we have not heard of, which is, in effect, trying to run this case through with the slightest discussion? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u401	Mr. President. Yeah, it's just as good as it is. A senator says. How interesting it is when such events become evident in such developments! Now it is, like, cot. A senator knows, to the highest. Since her visit to Britain, the new prime minister has returned. the recent prime minister of England. It might have been a catch for us to know if on this trip -- now I have not seen the minister's schedule - if she met, for example. represented by this firm, who claims to be in good contact with the government minister, on the contrary. That would have been very interesting. If so, it would have been very helpful to know the content of our discussion. It would have been very good to know if that had not been the case at all. I'm not going to do anything, so shoes are special, but it's really interesting when it comes to that kind of information. This is how both this information and other information that have been presented, just as we have gradually deepened this discussion, have not been available on the part of the government of the United States. They've come up here and there on the news panels, and they're here in the country. It is not possible to say that governments in Iceland and the government groups are keeping the public well informed on the subject discussed here. You can't say it with a good will and a good conscience. So I think we're going to have to continue talking about it for a while and deepen it and see if we can reach some conclusion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u402	Honorable and welcome president. I cut it down in my speech anyway. A senator said that he made it a subject of how difficult it has been to get men to discuss this with us. He linked it together that at the same time much more people are concerned with this and are opposed to the induction of the third energy package. This is another factor that reminds us of a matter that some of us had to discuss quite a few years ago, the Icesave Controversy. But what I find interesting about the comparison is that they were not usually allowed to talk it over at night. Sometimes meetings stayed. I think the longest one that ever struck most of the record was past five o'clock in the night, but the general public gave the opportunity to discuss it during the day. I think the discussion lasted three weeks. Why do you think so? A senator who seems to be intending to give the least consideration to the discussion? At the very least, I can conclude from the freshness of having the meeting held between six, seven, eight, nine, or even ten in the morning. Is this matter more important to you than the Icesave case? And how is it possible for the government to overdo this, and the general president of the Generals in particular, to force this case against the taking up of new customs and hitting every record in the night meetings? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u403	V.E.G. President. You might think that by holding a meeting at night and by tomorrow, the President of the Generals is trying to minimize the impact on the General Work Programme. I'm sure the middle class and I haven't made it count to talk at night. At that time, we have not specifically been disrupting our congregational ethic. Similarly, as you have seen many other members of the council at the Assembly Hall, we have not disturbed so many nights'sleep, yet we have not formed it. I'm still quite broke in the matter of why the government groups and the co-fish are so concerned with fixing this case through the council to the vast majority of the people at this speed we've warned against repeatedly, as to which the case is pointed out, in advance that are not worth the call which we've pointed to, irreverently, which we've pointed out. In itself, I do not have the answer to the reason why such efforts are so overwhelming that people are putting such a matter through the Council at an alarming speed of the night. I don't realize that. Nor do I realize why they want to tread this matter through the council through the people's foul hearts, knowing that in September over. will be considered in Norway on whether the induction of the third energy package meets the Norwegian constitution. [[The president calls.]] It will be handled by a political court. I'm incomprehensible to why men, for that reason alone, do not wait on this matter until the fall and consider it better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u404	Mr. President. We seek to answer that question. One of the few clues we have received from the management team on what they are at the head of this case, the latter, was seen in the Supreme Court. Of course, when he looked briefly a few days ago, a foreign minister did not answer many questions, but it was how the highest. A minister spoke, and his message told his own story. He re-enacted his conspiracy theory that the opposition to the third energy package had resulted from the reefs of some Norwegian people, especially the Norwegian Middle East and the Norway organization, who are fighting the country's involvement in the European Union. But after the highest. The minister had argued that the first message was received by this organization, which pointed out that they were aware that the Norwegian government was pushing them to produce this energy package. Finally, the Norwegian connection was discovered. As many know, at least two of the three groups of the Norwegian government are very Europeanist, and these European groups may have developed groups in Norway's will and put the whole population of Iceland to the point of driving this case through before the Norwegian Court gives its decision. If Iceland's people are already incarcerated, it is too late for Norwegians to correct themselves under the judgment of the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u405	Mr. President. Now it must be acknowledged that the person standing here has not been subjected to harassment from the Norwegians, since he does not understand Norwegian very well. I don't know what it's like. However, I recognize and think of the U.S. Secretary of State, as well as his colleagues, as we hear the sound of the north. I'm not from the time that they met in the north to discuss this matter. I don't think they necessarily were talking about the hay sale to Norway, without I know it, I don't believe in it. I think that business deal was on before they met there at the barrows. I think it is obvious that the Icelandic and Norwegian governments have had some conversations over this matter, and I expect to discuss their position on both fronts, i.e. In Norway and Iceland. I'm still saying that I'm a little reluctant to understand why we're going to end this case in a hurry, so badly prepared as it is, before the Norwegian Court dictates whether or not the case, as it's tore up in Norway, stands in the Norwegian constitution. One scholar after another here in Iceland has just warned that, and there isn't just one, not two, that the case as it's lived here in Iceland at least will test Iceland's long-term constitutions to the limit, if not entirely in the Icelandic constitution. There may be one other thing about what you do not understand why it is so urgent to push this matter through into the heart of most of the nation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u406	Mr. President. I had planned to complete my speech on the situation in Norwegian politics and the impact it has on the situation in Iceland. Also, I can inform the highest. To my discussion of the interaction of different regulations that were lost this morning, although the warnings are not found. I can finish this talk soon. Then I was informed that this will be my 40th speech in this discussion. In fact, some have the highest. Presidents, including the highest. President Brjánsson and the highest. The president of Brutish Haraldsdóttir, made it a custom to mention it specifically when such a turning point is being made in public speaking. I don't take it seriously if I get to the top. A president who is now seated has not done so. But in view of the turning point, I intend to wait only on the talks mentioned earlier and to give a landmark talk. It is a major turning point in politics, not just in Iceland, but in many parts of the world. It is in the response of the public to the bad developments that have been under way for several years, and it involves what I call a system application. It is constantly taking authority from democratic elected representatives - and they are responsible for it themselves - for government officials and institutions. The greatest example of this is, of course, the European Union, but this takes on various forms in our society as well as in ours. in relation to the EEA contract. But now it is come to pass before the voters, many more and more, that such democracy shall not work. In order for democracy to work, voters have to have at least one Any hope that politicians will have a position and ability to act in harmony with the promises made in elections. However, once politicians give up their power and are not even afraid to exercise the authority for which they are assigned under the democratic arrangement, voters have already been powerd. Now we see the response of these disturbing developments, last in elections to the European Parliament, especially in Britain, where a new political party received a third part of a series, while another new political party, which seemed to establish it at the head of a class like this, was going to be no. One thing in it, got, I think, 2.8% and might not ask him more. But the group that put almost exclusively emphasis on the fact that democracy would be respected and held at the conclusion of the National Code on the passage out of Britain from the European Union won a great victory. This is just one of many examples that the public realizes that if politicians give up their power, they're giving up a power they don't have. They're giving away authority, which is really the property of the voters. In such a situation, a major mistake may occur, even though it may take quite some time for the failure to experience it fully. Men have, for example. Call it this energy package that not all of this happens immediately, it may even take up to ten years before you see the real consequences of this. But ten years is not a long time in the history of a nation and, in fact, very short. I heard a talk coming from you. paritaprevir Páll Jónsson's Sigurður earlier that Ingólfur Arnarson had hardly come to Iceland just to join the European Union a few years later. I may have thought that it was a little small to call more than 1,100 years, but then I recalled the lines of the song: To you, one day is a thousand years And a thousand years, and no more! So when we discuss this matter, we need to keep in mind the effect on the future. Although given ten years, that would not be in the context of the parts.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u407	Mr. President. I'd like to start now by wishing. A senator will be happy with the 40th discourse on this important matter. Now I have listened to the anxieties of the Middle Class with spirit today, and I have to say, in fact, that even though a little six hours have been added to the 90 already, I am little closer to what really concerns the group. That's why I'd like to ask him why. In view of the fact that the four major administrative experts appointed to provide a review of this matter at its preparatory stage, all of them agreed that the case as it happened before the council would last in all the places of the Iceland's Constitution. There would be no danger that in this absence of any extension of the custody or administration of our resources, and it would be quite clear that the principle of transboundary transport could not apply here on a land in which such transport mechanisms were not available and would be established only with the approval of the Generals in the light of the legal advance that the Central Party has sought very much to discuss this but is being discussed in the work programme. That condition, law bill, is waiting in fact and is next on the agenda for approval, that the cables will not be placed to this country without the approval of the General Assembly. In case of a moment. A senator could give me a quick talk in short terms as to what the Party's concern is. Why does the Central Party consider all these experts to be wrong about this matter and that the survival of a body of 54 members of Congress is mistaken by counting the case to be finished and prepared for votes? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u408	Mr. President. First of all, I want to thank you. A senator's greetings. Those happinesses may at one time make up for the highest. This milestone was overlooked by the president in his presentation earlier. But I want to thank you too. A senator is eager to attend the discussion and ask for this inquiry. This is now one of the things we've been waiting for. It is noteworthy, however, that governments are letting government officials know that this is true. But I can't waste my time on unnecessary speech. Rather, it's time to answer a question. Senator. He brings up the reviews that came from, if I remember correctly, three directions, especially the constitution of the case. On the other hand, the reviews of other lawyers may be waved to different conclusions about that factor. The highest opinion and the government, at least the highest. The minister, based on his suggestions, expresses serious doubts as to whether this introduction will pass a constitution. This is mentioned in particular. That is, of course, the opinion of Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, and the Friðriksson of Friðrik of the Árni. In particular, the problem should be delayed, as the government seems to be trying to do, if legal protection is not to be the case. But that is not the way the government is going. It's ensuing. And if we agree to the third energy package, it will be introduced exactly as it looked to the joint EEA committee in 2017. The Þorsteinn of Pálsson, a party brother. That is exactly what a senator called this warning deception.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u409	Mr. President. This may be the very essence of a matter. It may be that when a letter to the minister of foreign law was addressed to informers in particular that their interpretation was not to be appreciated or viewed as having doubts about whether this treatment for the Council would last or not. There would be no doubt that the procedure here will be set up for the full constitution, and there would also be no doubt that there would be a sea cable, not unlike the approval of the Generals, as it would be arranged for a clear legal committee to treat the council with this matter discussed here. Nor would it be necessary to challenge the joint European government and energy authorities declaration that the third energy package on cross-border transport initiatives would not be appropriate in this country in the absence of such transporters. This may not be surprising. It is difficult to apply the rules about such transporters to nonexistent transporters. In view of the many times when the middle class has quoted the opinions of these honored men, I wondered, " I am surprised that no mention is made of the appeal followed by a repeated discussion, and I would like to deny that there was a difference. ' The members of the Central Party felt that there was no concern here, no doubt that this trial would last forever. There would be no need to fear that a sea cable would be placed in opposition to the council's will and that there would be no need to worry that the warnings given here would not be kept. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u410	Mr. President. I'm a little surprised at what I'm talking about. A senator restorations on this notice. I sincerely thought that the revered members of Parliaments, such as their bandit brother, Þorsteinn Pálsson, viewed the warnings as just a delusion, and thought that it was just fine, realized that this was a tool to try to convince - or deceive - members of the Independence Party. But now there's a problem. A senator begins to speak as if he took this warning seriously, perhaps to keep it steady. The members of the Independence Party are at bay. I don't know. However, because this letter is again asked out, the letter of application called by the foreign minister, it can be pointed out that on the very day that that that the letter appears, an interview with the aforementioned Árni Friðriksson Hirst at the moll.is, where he runs it very clear what legal uncertainty is involved in this. So reiterate what I said before that these lawyers pointed out that the warning had to be the nature of the introduction that would not be valid. They admitted that they had not seen this warning. And then we're gonna have some. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Wazowski's Víglundsson here and mentioned, I think, another more place where the warning may be to find or be in shape. We have to report what. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason as to this new clue. Why, then, is the warning not presented? Do you intend to end the matter, apparently, on this notice, before being presented? Before he comes into existence? Before calling for a legal assessment of the ahead and whether it is sufficient to meet the required requirements? This is a very strange order of parts, but unfortunately, it reflects on how the matter has been held. Then I hope so. A senator continues to respond to us and raise us up a little in the discussion and to explain his energy issues. [[The president calls.]] [[The point is, isn't it fun enough?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u411	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I just wanted to come in on one thing or two. A senator mentioned in his talk, i.e. how you look at Iceland in the EEA Convention. Then I'd like to refer to what strategist Carl Baudenbacher says in his opinion of a team made for the minister of State and the Ministry of State and has been a key tool in their conduct. He says, with President's permission: In the long run, Iceland's rejection of the third energy package could play a critical role in the EU contract. There he is, in fact, with political opinions, not legal, that are a little ambiguity to my opinion. Then he adds that it has always been held in Norway that the EEA Convention should be interpreted as a two-sided contract between the Norwegians and the Europeans, where Iceland and Liechtenstein were in a role of some kind. I find this quite remarkable a statement that, as a sovereign nation, we are involved in this two- side deal, all of us have the same rights as the others involved in this contract, legal rights, let's play a side role of some sort. What does that say? A senator of his own opinions?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u412	A respectable president. I gave a theory about this scene one night when no one had the chance to hear it, unfortunately. It is good to have an opportunity to correct her. You see, I have a theory about this very point, Carl Baudenbacher, and I knew that he knows the Icelanders well and how they think. I think this has been added to this opinion so that, in fact, the Icelanders would challenge them to do what they have to do. Carl Baudenbacher is quite aware of how Icelanders react to such explanations. He realizes that it is not possible for the country, or any other independent country, to approach an international agreement in a way that, as it was said, it is some kind of codfish with an increase and a park or a need to be loyal to a foreign country. That's not what we've done to this in this partnership, or I hope at least. Could not connect to torrent %1. Of course, this message from Carl Baudenbacher is primarily to warrant that we now have to show that we are in this cooperation on an equal basis. This view may be present somewhere in Norway, in the Norwegian government system to form, even among some Norwegian politicians. But then, if it's Baudenbacher's assessment that he's informing us about in this respect, we'll have to use the opportunity now to make this decision. Iceland is in the EEA business on an equal basis.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u413	Mr. President. In view of this statement, I don't think it's unnecessary that we're in cooperation on an equal basis, as it were. A senator mentioned, and he is a member of this contract, not through some role in the cooperation of Norway. Surely the Noreg is the back of the spine in this contract. Nevertheless, we have exactly the same rights as Norway in this regard. I must say, this political statement, this opinion expressed by this fine man, surprises me very much. In international relations, people should speak with caution in such matters. This is unusual. I'm telling you, I'm telling you. It is unusual to make such a statement on the part of a man who, for example, is hired by the Icelandic government to give his opinion. At the same time, I think he's downplaying the Icelandic government and Iceland's involvement in this context. I am surprised that the minister of foreign affairs has not responded in some way to this declaration and called for further explanation by Carl Baudenbacher on this matter. It is not comforting to know that with the opinion of such a person, at the same time, according to my personal opinion, we should belittled by Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u414	Mr. President. Certainly, it is considered very unusual and political. This is not a traditional legal opinion, as it is considered in the opinion that it would be completely harmless to send the case back to the Joint EEA Committee. In fact, it is a point that the foreign minister chose to skip a summary he published on Baudenbacher's opinion. That portion was not translated and included in the summary. But anyway, this is an unusual opinion and political concept. Even though I mentioned earlier that I knew Baudenbacher well and thought of him, we are not alone in politics. We do not agree with political issues, and perhaps most of all in Europe. It was quite surprising, therefore, that this man's political opinion of the subject should be sought by the minister of the Independence Party. I would have understood it if a minister of restoration or Conspiracy had sought opinion from this direction, but you can't draw a conclusion other than that, to the ultimate purpose. A minister with this espionage, which well meant long after a discussion was started with the committee and shortly before further arrivals were closed, should have responded to the problems the government had already encountered in support of this introduction. That's when it comes to political opinions with such remarkable sentences as what it is. A senator read up earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u415	Mr. President. At the beginning of November last, I asked for the highest court. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers on the origin of electrical responsibility. The inquiry contained some questions and, including, I asked the highest. The minister of whether to sell on the origin of electrical responsibilities might affect Iceland's international commitment to climate, and if so, how. V.E.G. In a material way, one minister answered that in a report on the origin of responsibilities funded for the prose and innovation of March 2016, sales of responsibilities from Iceland did not have any connection with Iceland's international commitment to climate. Exquisite responsibilities under Council 28 of the European Union, No. 28/2009, would have the sole purpose to show that a certain amount of renewable energy has been produced and that the information supply would only be relevant to business with the particular energy. So the Minister felt that it had nothing to do with Iceland's international commitment or Iceland's commitment to climate. I also directed a question to the highest. A minister on whether to sell on these responsibilities could affect the possibility of domestic buyers' electricity to demonstrate the clean origin of their electricity use. According to the minister's response, which now came to me a few weeks ago, it was believed that selling responsibilities would not in general affect the possibility of domestic buyers of electricity to demonstrate the clean origin of electricity use. The answer was that this would not affect the possibility to demonstrate a clean background - something a little strange. In this context -- and I'm going to do better in this inquiry in the next speech, I see that time goes by fast, Mr. President. If Icelandic power companies sell out all their responsibilities of origin, i.e. they sell, they may be competing with a foreign company, want or have to demonstrate the origin of electrical energy for their clients or their clients in foreign lands. If the nuclear power dealer has sold all his responsibilities, he cannot continue to sell them, and the Icelandic manufacturer sits by running his factory with dirty or dirty electricity. For there is no pure testimony, it is sold out. This may be a very negative situation; however, at the height of the situation. Ministers in response that this will not have this effect I can see better than if the demand for these responsibilities and the Icelandic energy companies are selling them all away, which they have actually not done in all but in great part - I go better to the following of the sums - then it must be that Icelandic companies are responsible for producing their products with unclean electricity. There's nothing more complicated than that. Last year, selling - it's estimated, in response to a minister - the Icelandic electronic company is the source, this proof, not the power, but the evidence of the origin of electricity, by 800,6850 million. K. It's supposed to be. That number is not available. It's divided into four companies, land activation and HS energy have the largest share. [[The president calls.]] I will continue this in my next speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u416	President wants to point them out. Congress members say that if they have much to do with the president of their speeches, they will hear an interested person in a room badly maligned by the members of the council. Not that I make a note that men are going to be president. It's up to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u417	V.E.G. President. It is far from me now that I turn my back on a president with a sweet mind, but of course we think about those who sit at home. It was a very interesting speech. A senator moved. To see, I think, the universe is a place where purity controls the state, nature's purity, the purity of energy, the purity of the sea around the country, lakes. It is very serious in my opinion if this opinion in Iceland is to change because we have become addicted to a system that means that the energy we use and the energy we use, the excuse, the President, looks out to be not pure or pure. A man was worried about it at the time of the arrival of this system, and I think it's done like other systems hanging on these directives that there's no way to get out of it. That's why I have to ask. A senator who has evidently entered this issue: Do we have any answer to minimize the opinion that I believe will follow if we have energy bills in which 37% of the origin is thought to be nuclear, which is naturally the vast majority of reality? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u418	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The President for the tip, and it's going to be less on me from now on. I also thank you why. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson for the question. You're right about what you're doing. A senator, as business ventures with electrical responsibilities, is increasing in a kind of self-proof way by what it looks like in the eyes of the outside world because a considerable part of the electricity production within the country is already being sold in the form of a witness, not by the electrical energy itself, in large part of the country, for the funds I mentioned earlier. Most of the power companies do this. I wondered about the effects, both in Iceland, if it's in the books that we have coal and nuclear power as our main source of energy. When it's true, it's not easy. But, of course, it's just a lie, really. The objective in the European Union is to increase the share of renewable energy sources. The objective is beautiful and worthwhile, but in our case, it works so badly because we are not connected. This may be fine in Europe when a nuclear power plant is in the next garden and the electricity comes from it, and you do not want it to ask that you use that kind of energy, so you buy the certificate even though the power from the plant continues. That's when you pay in this fund to improve renewable energy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u419	V.E.G. President. I reiterate that in itself it is very serious that we have become involved in accounting effects in order to make the European Union look better. We may gain some money from it. But to me, some things aren't favors for money. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator again whether this business relationship with the European Union is somehow out of place or whether we have been involved in this site for the future, these sources of auction. Can we stop selling our sources? Can we draw some of them back? Can we stop making it look like we're producing coal and nuclear energy? So far, we are not. And if so, how would we manage to get out of this web of deception that has been set up by us and the European Union together? I'm concerned that in the long run, this could cast a shadow on the image Iceland has created as a country that is almost exclusively based on renewable energy sources. It would be good to have a brief answer from what? A senator on this very matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u420	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. I don't know if there's any quick answer to this. Track No. 30/2008, the source of the responsibilities for electricity, is put in place for the implementation of EU regulations and directive No. 77/2001, which deals with these responsibilities and values in the entire European economy. Is there a way to get out of this? I don't think it's that easy from here on out. It's been introduced in Iceland, I guess, although I haven't checked how and when it was done. It's a law in the country and all of the European Union, so we don't walk through it. As far as it is, Mr. President, there is nothing to discuss but income. We are selling certicates in the form of paper or electronic statements for business in Europe, although we are not selling any electricity. We are not selling any material things. We're just selling the certificate. With these certificates, the natural image goes a little low because our accounting, the electronic accounting, looks worse. What I'm looking for is what it'll look like when we've sold all these certificates and Icelandic companies have no chance of showing the source of the energy they use, except to pay for it to compete with European companies. Is that not an increase in electrical prices?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u421	Mr. President. Thank you. This interesting speech and this interesting subject must be explained to the common people. In fact, the matter is complicated in its simplicity, so to speak. That it's possible to sell paper on the fact that you're using clean energy that you don't really use. It's a strange thing to see. What's most interesting about the gypsy case. A senator is whether this can affect future electrical prices. There is a very interesting point that has not been discussed here, but there is good reason. Plus, there was a whisk. A senator correctly admitted that this can have, and has, influence on the image of the country, just as it affects the image of the country that we now sold in the last budget, the government proposed and carried out selling release clearances, I think of about 4 billion bucks. I think it's perfectly clear that this damages our image. What I really wanted from what I wanted. A senator in this regard is what means he makes it possible for us to take our rights in this regard. To me, who may not have put me in enough of this aspect of the matter, it's not that we, with this pure energy, should sell these so - called testimony or constant letters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u422	Mr. President. This need to be of major importance only if there is an increase in income for the electricity companies, provided that sufficient amounts of electricity are not validated, i.e. not produced and sold abroad for so much of it that there was a lack within the country. According to a minister I'm more specific in subsequent talks, so far there seems to be no lack in the fact that a domestic energy sales company can pay free, most of it to the Icelandic companies looking for it. Of course, this does not apply to the industry. She's the big buyer that she's stuck with the inability to get this proof for free and needed, if she needs to show the origin of her electronic energy, to compete in a market with a company abroad about the certificates and pay for them. It only means one thing. It means an increase in electricity prices to these enterprises. That's what I'm trying to find out, and the possible effect on the future, if it's up to now. If this is where we're going to fix a sea cable, we're in those circles, sales of electricity and responsibilities, as soon as the Icelandic companies are selling it at a higher price elsewhere. This has a direct connection to the induction of the third energy package, i.e. The ideologies and effects that may follow the induction of such a Regulation. This case is such a small brother to the third energy directive.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u423	Thank you. Senator. This is a very interesting subject and is sure to come about with a greater impact, such as the driving force. A senator will say, when and if the energy package is introduced. In the European Union it is very important to have access to clean energy. Another thing is that there is no real sense, I think, in this discussion, and it has to do with what is bad. A senator mentioned, having a word with the Environment Minister on this matter. Well, it's the Ministry that has these issues in place, and it's necessary to explain the factors of the matter as to how the effect is if there's a transponder in this country, which I think everyone agrees that there will be a reality. It's just a matter of years. Then I ask about both the environmental effects of increasing activation, which will undoubtedly come to reality and remain in the dough, such as The wind mills, as well as international effects, i.e. to the image of our country, to our commitments, such as the Paris Convention, environmental commitments. All of this matters and connects. Therefore, Mr. President, one would have felt that it would be very necessary for the Environment Minister to enter this discussion at this stage.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u424	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for these reflections and questions. I also want to come to the second answer that the purpose of this law on the part of the European Union is, of course, noble, not to be forgotten. The aim is to increase the share of renewable energy sources and also reduce the share of the others we most want to do without, especially their impact on climate. The objective is noble, and if it goes well, the electrical products, natural, just because of the price, will increase the share of renewable energy sources in their production. They will be looking for the energy they sell in this way, i.e. use wind and drop power rather than coal or nuclear power simply because it receives a higher price for it. So the goal is noble, and we must not forget it. What I was looking for in my inquiry to the highest level. Ministers were the effects here, possibly the effects. It's shown, for example. in answer to one of my questions to the highest level. A minister who was: Could the price of responsibilities affect national electricity prices, and what is the connection between these factors? The question was answered in a very long way, and I will prefer it in my next speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u425	Mr. President. I want this speech to involve only the challenges faced by the European Union in energy matters. The European Union can think of the future and decades ahead if not beyond. There, energy matters are important to the relationship. The relationship has had to deal with problems in this regard. When the Eastern European nations are involved, electricity issues in these countries are rampant, the relationship has resolved to try to coordinate the energy system in Europe and work on a future plan, as well as a high priority on renewable energy sources, energy exchange and clean energy. A report by the European Commission, a free Icelandic translation, says that it is a European energy policy, which may be said to be the permanence of this report in a free Icelandic translation, by permission of the President: ▪ Orca is vital for Europe. Days of inexpensive energy appear to be behind us. Climate change challenges. Europe depends on increasing energy import and higher energy prices, the fact and the growth of EU member countries is increasing, as is the case in many other areas. In one country, lack of energy affects others immediately. The Commission's report, with the permission of the president, continues: To achieve renewable levels of safe and competitive energy, the European Union must respond together now. This will be discussed with the sustainable and safe use of supply, competitiveness, European energy policies and the implementation programme. It is interesting to read the operation program. If I only quote this report on this matter, by permission of the president, then it says here: The first step is that Member States will agree with a policy future vision and the implementation plan for the next three years with the aim of forming international cooperation of developed countries, at least in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in 2020 by 30% and to make contributions to reduce EU greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 by 20%. This will be supported by active monitoring, reporting on progress, as well as effectiveness, and exchange of best practice practices and continued transparency by regular development of the Commission, with up-to-date energy policies. In this report - I'll get it in more detail in my second speech, Mr. President, because time is getting better - it's pretty clear that the European Union is thinking about the future. We're talking about 2050 here. In these, pure energy is a very important and basically a key element in all of this. Thus, access to cleaner energy is very limited in the European Union. Therefore, the EEA Treaty is important to the European Union because there is access to clean energy through the EEA Convention, through the energy package and into the EU countries, to Norway, Liechtenstein and Iceland. This shows that it is shorter than we think there will be a cable and we will be participating in the common market area by transporting European energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u426	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For his remarkable speech, the Birgir of Þórarinsson It was interesting to listen to his map from a report to the European Commission on the future of energy in Europe, where he reviewed an action programme that the European countries intend to set out for the long future. And the prospect of the future is clear. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator was pointing out that. Of course, the good aim is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to increase the share of renewable energy, and to supply electricity to Europe. That's why I want to ask you why. A senator with regard to the future revealed in the report. Now renewable energy and large amounts of energy are mainly found on the surface of Europe. I'm referring to wind power and fall power in Norway, Iceland and the islands around, Great Britain, Ireland, but not maybe in central Europe, where coal power plants such as Germany and nuclear power plants are everywhere in Europe, France and elsewhere. Well, maybe. A senator described this as planning for Europe in the future, as it were, to connect in these countries that I mentioned, Norway and Iceland and those countries that have much more access to cleaner energy and more than in central Europe?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u427	Mr. President. This is a very interesting report because it shows us in black and white what problems the European Union faces in this category, i.e. The environment, the energy issues. Of course, they try to find solutions that can suit them. In this, it is quite clear that energy policy is basically the core factor in the EEA deal in the future. Therefore, the EEA contract will be each day more important to the European Union. I think it's perfectly clear. But in the political opinion of Carl Baudenbacher, the State Department of State has promoted this danger, I think it's a political assessment of the situation. This report is very clear on what is going on in the European Union. They need to respond rapidly to greenhouse gas emissions, which is, in fact, the core of the EU's new energy policy. They are heavily involved in fossil fuels. They need to reduce emissions. And the energy pack helps us to assist them in these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u428	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and review of the main aspects of energy policy published in the report to the Commission. A lot of interesting things are there. A senator came in. Europe, the European Union, looks forward to a long future and its goals are clear, i.e. reduction of greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere How can this be done best? We kind of see this coming here in Iceland, in the form of the ships, the first energy directive and the second and the third. We are talking about a third energy directive from the European Union and we want to send it back to the joint EEA committee. One of the authors' arguments is that it's too late, and we've already brought in the other packages, and it doesn't work to say no so late in the process. But I say then, "Now is the fourth energy decree coming," and we haven't seen it here, I don't know. There are still further plans for this future, as the report shows. I'm asking why. Senator: Is it not even more reason to stop now and make use of our contract rights in accordance with the terms of the agreement we are in, such as the European Union and the EFTA countries? We are members of this contract, and in the contract, there is a law on what to do if they want to be granted as we clearly want to, and the people want to do, to go back and ask for a reserve they've accepted so well in interviews and in the publication of declarations. Is it not easy to see that this way should go?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u429	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. As far as we're going further on these things, i.e. We'll accept a pack of three and then we'll get a pack of energy, because it's gonna be harder to turn back. I think it's perfectly clear. Of course, we were never to go through this energy package at the beginning, an energy package one and two. They've given us nothing but added overlay. The power companies were divided up. This resulted in a large cost for the companies, which went into the prices. Electricity was forbidden. All special contracts were forbidden. There were some directives that just didn't apply to our market area, our electrical energy system, as it is built up, and we've built up with great honor. That's the first mistake. They naturally do not have permanent exception at the outset. But now this matter may be different. Now we're actually building an even bigger market area, i.e. This is not only in Iceland, which was thought to compete in this sector, with the dissociation of the enterprises, etc. No, Directive three is the major step under which we are entering the joint market, which is Europe, which depends on a cable that I think we have shown to be coming and will not be prevented.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u430	V.E.G. President. Hv. A candidate has dealt extensively with, based on facts and data, changes in electrical prices that have occurred in the implementation of the pan-European directives together. I'd like to ask a senator if there is something special in the light of the rise in electricity prices, which was at least a section of the left members of the council in their time made comments when these directives were introduced, including at least. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, as memorable as ever. Hv. Jónasson He has not changed his mind, as is the current president of the council. It is worth asking: What makes the left of the greens no longer worry that the energy has become commercial, the market of resources in the country? Is their presentation as credible as with regard to our membership in NATO? It's under way before the election, and then they've done nothing more with it. Is it the same with energy? Is it like any other store product to be subject to the laws of the market, and people do nothing about it, even though history says that electrical prices have increased to the rhythm of the law and the introductions together? Whether this category can be trusted for the future can help to prevent energy prices from continuing to rise and induction, e.g. The fourth energy package without knowing what it says, which we might find today, if it was interested in it. I'm a little surprised at the dramatic change in policy and emphasis that has taken place in this category.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u431	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator and join him in saying that the change in left green has remarkable results. This was the only group that voted against energy bags at the time and held up a very powerful exchange for their induction and the market of the electrical energy system. Of course, that is the legitimate question. A senator's concern: Can we trust such a political party to guide us in these matters that are so extraordinary in this regard? There has been no clear explanation. This issue involved the marketing of electricity. Hv. A senator and current U.S. Speaker, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, had a special opinion in the Foreign Affairs Committee of his day, where he was so opposed to installing a package of energy and presenting a very good argument, but had to be subjugated because the case went through. Today, this same group has come to the key, saying: "Here, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Now, let's say stop. We are now taking this issue to the joint EEA committee. We're not going to any more markets. We are not going into this large area, which is Europe with 550 million people marketed. I must say, Mr. President, that I find it difficult to trust a political party that changes so amazingly about how it feels because the experience of energy bags alone and two is unequivocally negative for the homes and businesses of the country. It is often proved here, and those who say otherwise simply do not consider the facts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u432	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. It is quite unusual to see how most classes of the Council, other than maybe the Central Party, have become more similar and more similar to what has been going on in the terms of the term. Now it looks like you're doing it. I believe, against the market of energy resources and the environment, so on the basis of their survival for the new Socialist Party to receive the cylinder of the left green in opposition to a soldier, as they have called it at some point. It seems that the left green is a little unnecessary in Icelandic political bitch with this continued. I'd like to ask a senator two questions. On the one hand, whether additional markets of energy will lead to continued expansion in power can lead to this. Then I refer to the development that seems to be within the European Union to further media control. If the market continues, there will be more medium management, more demand, international institutions will want to run affairs for Iceland, so that marketing will be accompanied by power expeditation. Then you can ask, " What is it? ' A senator has discussed from a talk chair, whether it is not likely that the development we have seen will lead to an ongoing increase in electricity prices. Has there been something that tells us the opposite, i.e. that these packages and policies of the European Union's common energy market and clean energy for all Europeans will lead to a reduction in energy prices in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u433	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. The concern he has in these matters is valid. I might want to say it first, because of what. A senator entered the issue of the left green and their transition in this matter, showing that much of the Union was sitting by the supply of energy packets one and two in its own time. Of course, this brings attention. Now I think the Conspiracy had almost approved this case without having looked at the Senate documents, they didn't even intervene. Besides, it's interesting that they don't seem to listen to their former chairman, Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, who has long been regarded as the father of the EEA and knows the whole process after coming to the party for Iceland at its own time. They do not seem to listen to their former chairman, who strongly warns against accepting the third energy package. Of course, this attracts much attention. With regard to the market and the use of power, you are absolutely right by what you say. A member of the European Union stresses central management, that all of this will be controlled in the European Union, there will be a central management of competitiveness, which means they are opposed to anything called a powerful national company, such as Conjugation. I think it's pretty clear that we've come to see a further power room and an increase in electricity prices as well. A senator mentioned. [[The president calls.]] There is a pursuit of clean energy in Europe, and it makes it more valuable and, therefore, increase electricity prices to homes in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u434	The President reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u435	Mr. President. In the past unprepared inquiries last Monday, the president of the Central Party, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, called attention to an article published in The Times of Britain, the day before, if I recall correctly, and was rebuffed. In the morning newspaper and the Will, where it was discussed that British investors were pushing the British government to open a slang to Iceland. The project would be fully funded, and there would really be nothing to wait for. Hv. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, opened the matter up in the past unprepared queries, and Prime Minister Katrín Jakobsdóttir answered. There Katrín came in and hoped that she would never have a sea cable laid in Iceland. She also said that all lawyers agree that the third energy package does not include sea cable repairs. That's what I want to come up with with a new opinion that I'm going to draw attention to. With President's permission, the highest. Prime Minister in unsubstantiated queries yesterday: ▪ All lawyers agree that no obligation will be derived from the energy package to allow sea cables to be restored between Iceland and other EEA countries. It is not that the principles involved in this matter take effect here unless such a sea cable is laid... - Then she's referring to the third energy package. V.E.G. The prime minister also said, on permission of the president: ▪ That's the fact. She hasn't been affected yet. It does not require that a sea cable be placed here. It is the decision of the General if at any time I do not hope for, Katrín said. Last night, a thistle appeared on the Facebook website of Governor Arnar Thor Jonsson, which is really a reaction to this position by the prime minister. It says, by permission of the president - so is Arnar Þór Jónsson, the district judge who writes: I don't trust to speak for all lawyers, such as the prime minister does here, but I think it's right and necessary to emphasize one point: When this sea cable is financed (whether it's a foreign or a foreign company that does it), it won't matter to me. This is because if the United States still tries to prevent the cord from being laid, it will be a legal offense against Iceland. The Icelandic state will obviously lose the language of energy, as shown by the Tetragrammaton on free flow. This is something people would have had to discuss honestly (and detailed) in previous stages. Thus, economic costs and costs could have been discussed materially, at the cost/miss of sending electricity to other countries. In this discussion, the Icelandic statesmen would have at least More solid land under the feet than the prime minister has in this interview. I think the highest. Prime Minister Katrín Jakobsdóttir has probably not been shot down more quickly than this by the district judge's response, because this was quite the noticeless statement made by the prime minister when she says, by the permission of the president, and I'm going to repeat it: ▪ All lawyers agree that no obligation will be brought by the energy package...◯ - All lawyers. That's the highest attitude. The prime minister leaves no room for interpretation or misunderstanding. I would like to reiterate the words of Governor Arnar Þór Jónsson at the end of my speech in which the district judge says, by permission of the president: When this cable is financed, Aldulis's chiefs will not be divided. - It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u436	V.E.G. President. That's very interesting. A senator points out that the moneybook was answered by the prime minister to his statement in the chamber. We know that the highest. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, is a very capable, zealous woman, and we have great respect for her. One may wonder if a prime minister has been misinformed. Could it be that the presentation of the government or those who made the case and who are trying to drive it through was wrong, or if they didn't realize that this foreman, as men have said, is the case. lawyers, mainly to home bridges? It does not prevent private partners, such as this British Seminar firm, or what it is, Atlantic SuperConnection, setting up here at its expense of sea cable, building potential power plants, e.g. wind power plant, then forward the energy to Scotland and possibly to Europe, for example, into this European market. I'm surprised to hear it. The prime minister was not introduced or informed. Although Prime Ministers are leading this government and this on behalf of the left green, is in the full interest in increasing the market of the resources, making them more commercial products than ever before, I know that the Minister would not address such matters with false intents. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Isn't there anything left of the time? [[Jah...]] At least he's finished now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u437	There will be some discrepancies in the clock. This will be revised and revised. A senator will not be paid the price.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u438	Mr. President. Just as long as the clock is inconsistencies, but it's not in your head, it's okay. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for the counter-sponsored. I don't think anyone's at the top. The prime minister is on purpose with some twist or half truth in these matters. No one can think of this encounter with our prime minister. I think there's got to be an explanation, then I'm sure it's from the management department or a co-worker who's going to handle these matters. But no one needs to wonder whether this attitude is the highest. The prime minister mentioned in unsubstantiated inquiries yesterday does not argue that all lawyers agree that no obligation will be made by the energy package. Now that we have reached that point, I think that there is yet another reason why we take the matter back, take it off, postpone it to the autumn Summit, and try to get along with it in a more reasonable way, so that as many people can enjoy it. No one will act out this misunderstanding, for, of course, it floats up at some point of the matter, such as. In this case, when it comes to claiming that all lawyers agree that no obligation will be derived from the energy package. Of course, it will be corrected when there are others. So I'll answer a question. The senator doesn't even think that these are some kind of training from the highest level. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u439	President. I thank the senator for the answer. If I recall correctly, the point is given, at least in footnote No. Sixty-six percent, in the opinion of the Friðrik of the Árni and of Stefán Már, to be sullied against Iceland by the EFTA Court for a similar case as this, they say it may be difficult for Iceland, they say it somehow. Another lawyer, named Eyjólfur Ármannsson, says in one of his opinions, and is actually saying exactly what Arnar Þór Jónsson in his Facebook record, says that it is crystal clear to a private person who will go on such expeditions will have their rights on their side. However, a word of the highest magnitude. It is hoped that the prime minister would have set fire to more than the district judge Arnar Þór Jónsson to draw attention to the need for more enlightenment. I view this friendly tip of the district judge as primarily written to the highest degree. The prime minister and others do not continue to use false reasoning, as this seems, probably completely unintentionally, so I now say so too. So I ask. A senator would not want to have a misunderstanding, especially among the followers of the matter, to sit down and explain it further.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u440	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson answer. Yes, I think it's necessary for a person to take time to sit down and review these views if there is a wish, if it's time to look at these matters while we're talking in the Senate. According to reports, many members of the Parliament are finding that their time is filled with the debate over the third energy package and most members of Congress are not involved. So I think that factors such as this, which include the views of the members of the board, which are likely to be based on the position of the minister who measures the case, are based on misunderstandings. Of course, it is absolutely necessary for the government groups to take one step back, consider the whole matter, and consider the views that have been presented at the opposite of what is used as a rational support for the induction of the energy package as available today. The number of issues that either have no answers or are unclear is growing, or since a drunken section of the U.S. Congress feels that national and national interests are being maintained, but are being done according to the current approach to the induction.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u441	Mr. President. I want to come into what we just heard about right now, i.e. A very interesting statement from a local Court on the fact that the defences do not arise in favor of what the government has so strongly emphasized that it will be, i.e. That they will think. This underscores the importance of careful discussion on this subject. It hasn't been in my opinion. I agree with that. paritaprevir Gunnar Sveinsson, the son of Sveinns, that the prime minister is well in this matter, I believe. She's a smart woman. She knows a thing. But you wonder if she has received the correct information, e.g. Just Carl Baudenbacher's opinion, which has been very much discussed. I believe that there are political claims that are impossible and surprising, as I did in my first speech here. But I want to agree with what. Ólason Of course, in these circumstances, when new information is presented, from abroad and from the most respected lawyers at home, to postpone the case. There is no harm done by it, and not for the government, either. I just wanted to make some corrections and thank you. A senator for bringing this new introduction into his discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u442	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson answers. It is so strange that these discussions, which have been going on for several days, days, and nights, are becoming increasingly new to the material. If people were now reasonable to take a few days to get some space to win the case and think about it, I'm pretty sure that the number of things that came up needed thought - provoking thought - out but already focused on winning would multiply. These points are being won, and they are coming up constantly as the discussion takes place here at the council. When a large section of the United States has the main point of saying that there is now reason to stop the discussion, the group is not likely to consider what is necessary to get to the bottom of the discussion at the same time. Likely, that group is primarily that way that they think they are trying to wait for the problem. I think that points like this, such as the approval of the Council of Ministers on the fourth energy package, such as reports of the full-scale sea cable fixation programmes and so many other factors, are designed to make it absolutely foolish to delay the case not to a minimum of a few days in order to be able to get through it. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it would be the only sense to postpone it until autumn.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u443	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. Yes, I think it's urgent that all of this information be checked in. I've seen on the Internet that members of Congress have said that this case is complete. Prime Minister has said the matter is closed. It may also be noted that although quite many members of the Parliament have never spoken up on this matter, which tells us that this has not been a careful discussion because many questions have to be answered, many questions remain to be answered. The most serious point is that now in the last record, important information that changes this matter is presented, such as. News reports published in The Times, Britain, yesterday that the sea cable project was almost full of money. And the reasoning of the district judge that was called here, that all the words of judgment should be overthrown, is well thought and done. The definition of electricity has, of course, changed. Now it has become lipabundant, and in the EEA Convention it is called four freedoms, i.e. The product is beneath it. Then there's the capital transport and the rest of the contract. Which will mean we can't oppose the fact that this will be a free flow of goods. [[The president calls.]] And it is quite clear that these premonitions do not come about by any means. [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u444	Mr. President. Of course, there is concern in itself that the only opportunity we members of the council now have to have a word with the prime minister was yesterday in connection with an unprepared question period. For complete chance, this inquiry is why. paritaprevir Last night, Sigmur Gunnlaugsson Gunougsson's winners were expected to be responsible for dealing with this misunderstanding with the local judge Arnar Þór Jónsson. Of course, it is shocking not to expect that there will be an opportunity to have a place to speak at the highest level. Prime Minister, of course, because there is a fundamental difference in understanding. The prime minister's position is so crystal clear, which says, by permission of the president: ▪ All lawyers agree that no obligation will be derived from the energy package to allow sea cables to be restored between Iceland and other EEA countries. That's the highest attitude. The prime minister leaves no room for interpretation. This view is now based on misunderstandings. I reiterate what I have said in the past: There is nothing else in the situation but to take matters off. Of course, it must be the decision of the government and of the Generals whether it will be temporary while other matters are allowed here, and then the case will be resumed, or if it will be postponed, as desirable, until the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u445	Mr. President. I think you're telling me, huh? paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason. I'm gonna let you discuss this in your next speech, but this is very interesting. Of course, this information is relevant in searching for the warning. Of course, I'll analyze this information and the opinion that Arnar Þór Jónsson, the local judge, is facing a man, on this notice. He now agrees with what we have said here. First, what is the purpose of this arrangement? And second, will he think? Is there anything in it? When we finally find out exactly what he is, he will think? The opinion of this respected lawyer is that he will not matter. What does the government's opinion on this, whether or not she wants a cable - it's been introduced, and it's simply going to be a legal offense against Iceland. It's so simple. We've been pointing here for days and calling for reasons on how government officials see this warning. I'm not going to discuss this in my speech, but I just think it's so interesting, so new into it, that's gonna shed a new light on it. I can't wait to hear what I'm saying. The senator adds to the museum that is clearly there. I'm going to discuss the origin of electrical power, which is an inexhaustible subject and very interesting subject and has to do with the induction of the third energy package quite seriously. Especially with regard to our expectations or fear of affecting the value of electricity in our country. Not only because of these primary responsibilities but also because of the fact that Iceland would be linked to the European electricity market by a cable. As I mentioned earlier in a talk, the introduction to this Regulation has long become. It's a 2008 law. I call it the little brother of the energy directive. Because in this we can see a sample of what could possibly be through the development of the energy directive we are dealing with and we can see the future of electrical efficiency for users in this country. It's actually just about the origin and proof of electricity origin and its sale. I hadn't considered the price of the electricity yet. From the top information. Minister, in response to my inquiry, the price for the initial responsibilities in the past few years has been between 0.2 and 2 euros. That's MWst. The Icelandic energy companies sold 14.8 TWst. In 2017. The estimated price last year, 2018, is 3,800,850 million. The enterprises that have been selling are HD Energy, Energy Salination Nature and Landactivation, however in very different ways and in different amounts. If I start with an HS Power, Mr. President, then her income has been on account of the 2011 sale of these responsibilities, 140 million. Of these, 107 million date back to January 1, 2016. No responsibilities from HS Power have been sold to individuals or other public energy users in Iceland and all clients of the company, to the major industry, to have the source certificate of electrical energy. That's where I come to the point. Although she would ask for it because it does not exist because it has already been sold, the industry did not receive a certificate of origin. Except to pay for it in competition with foreign companies. That's the point. And where does this lead us? This will lead to a higher electrical price. I have finished my part of the talk but will continue in the next talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u446	V.E.G. President. This is a very interesting summary of events. A senator has been discussing the origin of responsibilities. I wonder, I'm trying to recall it up in my head that there were quite a lot of people who warned about this, if I remember correctly, at the time. These include the Central Party Council, then the city councilman. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, if I remember correctly, and did it very violently. I wondered, though, if it was a mistake at the time to permit or accept this system with its original responsibilities. Is the question, then? A senator has considered the possibility of taking the step back. Second, I find it very interesting that the senator reviews these figures, these amounts that the Ministers have answered, and showed here for the council to share in this business. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator, or perhaps he may ask him to explain to us a little more in response, if not, in another speech, how and how this affects the electrical price? In fact, it is quite remarkable if, for example, a company in Iceland, a major industry, can't get these primary responsibilities unless they buy them in competition with foreign industrial companies, where these big business companies are driven only by pure energy, original energy. They are competing with companies or buying some kind of constant letter at the same time as they even use coal or oil to produce their products.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u447	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. First, he asked if the step could be taken back. I think it's really hard. They've been introduced. They've become a law in the country. I mentioned yesterday that these are 2008 laws, of the origin of the power responsibility. The EU rules are being introduced from 2001 on, and the aim is to increase the share of renewable energy sources in Europe. The objective is in itself noble, but the procedure may not be appropriate to all of the parties of the agreement. If we were to become linked to Europe, we may not be sure that this would be an extremely good thing for the electric buyers here in the country if they had to compete with the non-employers, both for the electric buyers and also for the buyers of the certificate. It's not certain, like I just came in earlier. Hv. A senator asked about the sale. It's the same way with the Power Sale, if I give you an answer at the highest level. A minister who does not sell responsibilities, but since 2015, responsibilities of origin have been included for the whole of its market. This is what happens at the Power Sale. The situation in Energy Nature, according to the Minister, and according to nature's energy data, is that annual revenues due to sales of the origins have been 20◯60 million. K. This year, 2019, most likely, a 20 million - billion - year - old value income plan assumes that sales are responsible for sales. This is going to be a significant increase and responsibilities of origin are included in the company's electricity trade for public users. So it is still for the rest for common people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u448	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. Isn't there something strange about the fact that a company in Iceland who only uses renewable energy, water power or earth heat, that's why, in particular, needs to pay for this proof, as I understand why. A senator? Isn't there a little strange about having to pay for such a thing? And do you sit at the same time as someone in Europe who produces similar products or similar products with coal or oil? If I understand correctly. Is it not remarkable if we have installed a system that works like this, a system that may actually aim only to increase the income of the energy companies? I reiterate the other questions I had about how electrical prices will go up in regard to this business. Hv. A senator mentioned it, for example. that because the industry does not receive this proof but needs to be bought, it is part of the overall picture that leads to an increase in electrical prices. Maybe there's more discussion, I realize that. This is of interest, however, based on the fact that we today are dealing with issues that bring us even deeper into the European network of electronic energy markets, where energy is actually a commercial product, and it is now being made up of even greater markets under this government of the left green.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u449	Mr. President. It might also be the view that some companies are in such a business that they may not want to do this. They may not want to flaunt someone's purity and may not have to do so at all. I took one example here the other day. The Icelandic company that makes, lets say socks, and gets electricity, buys electricity from a local energy company, then another company in Europe, say, in France, which is doing the same thing in competition with the Icelandic. The buyers, then some business chains and socks, wonder why they should buy the socks and hear from their customers that they place a lot of money on the production of renewable energy donors and ask about it. Is this produced in a factory that uses renewable energy? Then it is important for the manufacturer to be able to present a certificate, whether it is real, that it comes from such a power plant or a nuclear plant. The Icelandic person, who cannot present such proof, is in trouble. The shopping chains tell him: "Where's the certificate? He says we don't use nuclear energy in Iceland. And there is no proof. He is already in a situation where he needs to buy. If it doesn't exist, it still exists, most of the Icelandic energy companies can provide their users with this certificate because there's a little leftover, because most of the energy goes to a major industry. The heavy industry may just not care about the origin of proof.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u450	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for an interesting talk. I'm going to start with what the senator entered at the very end of his last answer that might have been a major industry here, no matter how the proof of origin fell. I remember at least about ten years ago, one of the world's branches boasted that its aluminium production was the greenest aluminium in the world and its components, with the most environmentally important. It is often referred to as the green metal, including in view of how easy it is to recycle the joint and how much of this force produced in the world is still in use after repeated recycling. What is the senator's position on this? Does he think it is possible for the Icelandic industry to shoot itself in the leg if there is little consideration for the views involved in the pure energy that has been used and used for all time, let me say? Could there be a risk that companies could lose markets or markets they have today if their source certificate is sold from the energy plants and that production will be defined on the basis of nuclear and coal, for example?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u451	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this question. He came into it that the big business was perhaps a major industry. By no means did they care about the origin of their electricity, referring to an example of an area that prided themselves on its production of aluminium, calling its perhaps greenest aluminum in the world. What is the value of this statement, and what will be the value of this statement? The European Union has energy policy, it is not just the certificate they work to increase production of renewable energy. That's the point. This is because there is more demand for it. Therefore, those who intend to build power plants are more likely to develop renewables and build power plants than nuclear power plants because they know in advance that they will receive higher prices for them. The market's been made up. I'm going to read from a pretty fun answer, which is the basis for this answer from the highest level. Minister: Of course, the donors themselves are a resource. We've already talked about it. But then she adds: 'But their purity can be viewed as an independent resource.'
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u452	The president points to a written case is always read by the president's permission.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u453	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for the answer. In his talk earlier, the Senator admitted that a considerable deal had been done with what I am accustomed to calling constant letters. I think that many people use the same term for the sale of source certificates, although it may not be technically accurate. In other words, more is involved in describing such trades as these take place than with the technical concept to which it should be laid. This, of course, is a constant letter in the sense of buying for a better position than they really deserve. The Senator entered earlier that by 2017, it had been a trade of some 800,850 million, who would say business conditions and pay constant letters of these national energy plants. Has the senator examined the development of later times, in 2018, or possibly something into 2019, and seen the cost of these constant letters? Because if I understood the point, I'd have a distance of 0.23/42 euros per minute. A senator is correct, far from the limit. I wondered if the trend is further up so that it can be part of the interests of the energy companies, i.e. to continue to sell these proofs of origin, which can be said to be whale handler for them, systematic whale drivers. It is clear that no expenses have been involved in the current revenue.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u454	Mr. President. Hv. A senator I thank for the question entered an interesting feature of his case. My answer is yes. There's clues in response to the highest. A minister to become more responsible for these responsibilities. Just to appeal, the answer says that the annual income due to nature's sale of responsibilities has been 20 to 60 million - annual incomes. This year, 2019, a sales income plan is set up for 150 million. K. So it's multiplication. So it all indicates that the price is rising. It is not unusual in view of the great European Union's emphasis on renewable energy and its increased use. Hv. A senator calls this a constant letter. Yeah, it's kind of a constant note. In developed countries, especially in several European countries, consumers require that everything should be environmental, such as organic vegetables, etc. They do not deal with things that are contaminated or that at least they try to do. avoid it and choose even if they have to pay a higher price for it. The same likely is about the electricity, the energy that people use and buy, that they will be in the future. I'm going to read it again with the permission of the president. I forgot to get a president's permission earlier, and I apologize for that. I now have my time, and the next talk will be held.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u455	V.E.G. President. I have in my speeches recently pondered the future followed by a pack of three energy, also a pack of four that have been seen and taken care of by the European Union. It is now in a process that is subjugated to the European Union and later to the EFTA countries involved in the EEA. At the same time as this is happening in Iceland, we are still dealing with the third energy package. We have a specific warning, but we believe that this package can be very spare for Icelandic interests. At the same time, the fourth has become light. Therefore, I find it incomprehensible that the members of Parliament and Ministers do not want to appreciate the overall impact, see what it means for the future that if we accept a pack of three now, how four will affect the decisions we make today. I have said that it is not often that we have the opportunity to see how the future will be affected, but we can do so now. I must admit that I was disappointed to see that it was. paritaprevir In the media, the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, president of Recreation, says that she feels that this is just a package for herself. Her words could be understood as not to be mixed. I think it's highly irresponsible to speak in this way, to ignore the full priority of the four energy package if we accept a pack of three, what a pack of energy would lead to a fourth energy pack. For example, with regard to national sovereignty, the development of electrical prices, the supply of power, the sources of the surveillance agencies, etc. Is it really so that humans do not want to examine the overall picture? I'm going to allow myself to add, especially by word. The prime minister here today who did not seem to know that the private people can search and will no doubt, if they will or will, without the government anywhere near it, and we try to ban them, seek their rights. It'll even come. ... in the opinion of Stefán the Már of Stefánsson and Friðrik of the Árni Fridrik Friðriksson of Hirst, in footnote No. 62, with President's permission: However, it must not be forgotten that the Energy Agency rejects a company's application where the company might turn to ESA, which could end up by a contract break-up against Iceland. Such a situation could be difficult in Iceland. This is consistent with what happened. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason pointed out in a talk chair when discussing the transfer of the moneybook from the district judge Arnar Þór Jónsson, who was answering the claims of the highest degree. Prime Minister. That's exactly what I'm talking about. We have not been free in any way from the fact that this might become a reality. On the contrary, we're taking - and that's my word, not the district or minister - continued big steps in making EU energy policy and a European energy market ours. Is that what we want? Is this what the government of Katrín's daughter Jakobsdóttir wants? Do the resources in Iceland and their products, what we get out of them, the energy, make even more trades in the European Union? So I've been thinking about the evolution of an energy pack four, including... Yesterday, no one is counting on to come up and answer the question, if a four-pack of energy calls for an increased power supply. Will there be a controlled priority when, after months of travel through some system, on the Joint EEA Committee on a four energy pack? Why is that? Why is it likely or possible? Isn't it true that we're looking at it today before we finish the course that we have on the table? For it is one unit, whether it be known or not. I'd like to add one more question, which I don't have time to wonder answers to. Will Iceland have to go looking for access from a pack of energy four? How will they be taken if we produce a pack of three energy at the same degree and speed as we did with a pack of energy, which was one of the reasons most of us asked to be rejected? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u456	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Sveinsson Sólnson for his speech. The question the senator makes up at the end is: Will there be a request for an exception from the fourth pack of energy and we, as it seems to be to the exception of the release, is turned towards the third pack of energy, possibly had our position narrowed by, as the senator expressed it, to bring in such a cover that all the extradrafts, not all but a large part of them, were rejected because there was no evidence that Iceland needed such an expansion, the people in the country had so well managed to bring in with the first package and the second package of energy, and could continue with the third package on the same page? I'd like to ask you what. A member of Congress: Does he think it is possible for us to harm our own potential to obtain the terms of such a rule in relation to our actual situation? Could it be that the damage we can cause to our potential interests is made that the real effects of testing and the fourth energy package come on the assembly - and with the thought that one of the goals of the fourth energy package, although I have not seen the evidence, but the report I've taken about it, suggests that one of the goals of the fourth energy package, even though I have not seen the evidence of the case, That it should expand and strengthen ACER's authority, which is now our core concern regarding the issue of sovereignty? So the question is why. The senator is, do we cause our own personal harm by approaching the induction of the third energy package as we have so far - or, more accurately, as the secretary of state has done? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u457	V.E.G. President. Yes, yes, it is possible to do, especially if we produce the ideologies, the goals and policy contained in a pack of three energy. It has been noted many times that the warning of a cable set by the government is only for us at home. One of the nice ex-presidents of the Independence Party called it this, reminds me, illusions, or something like that. In fact, the man has an interesting article that he publishes on the will.is, which would be especially fun for independent men to read. Everything we do today will most likely affect the treatment and interpretation that we already receive on a pack four. At least that's the experience of previous energy sources. We need not be surprised that the European Union does not necessarily like giving us any extra access or listening to what we have to offer when the goal is obvious, to create a single energy market in which they believe that Iceland can be important, i.e. carves environmental energy into that market. That's the big deal, of course. The worst part is that at the same time we take those steps - we see what the next step means, i.e. energy package four - we don't even have a policy to work on. We haven't well thought-out long-term energy policy, how we see things in Iceland. At the same time, we create the EU energy policy, which is not necessarily in our favor. In fact, I think it's very contrary to our interests, if the men don't want to dive into it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u458	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for the answer. Now, there is -- which I can say for myself to have amazed me - the reaction of those who support induction on the basis of a restraining device. Secretary of state and supreme. Secretary of the trade. I hope President forgives me for calling the highest. Industrial, innovation, justice and travel minister of the Industrial Minister for this discussion. It's not mean, it's more to the simple. Everybody knows what they're going to do there. It has amazed me that no response seems to have been received from the board of directors' investigation to learn that the fourth energy package is now fully released by the Council of the European Parliament, thereby providing key evidence of seeing beyond the future but has been possible so far. I know how to do it. A senator might explain what could cause members of the Parliament to see no reason to look at anything less than the fourth energy package? We're dealing with the third energy package. A number of talks, even at the time that the energy package supporters and its manufacturers participated in the discussion, have repeatedly come up with the idea that it would be good to see what was in the fourth energy package, but it was just somewhere in the future, and we needed to finish it. Now the fourth energy pack is in place. Has a what? A senator's theory of what causes no supporters of the third energy package to see why they see the fourth energy package? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u459	V.E.G. President. The answer, in fact, is no. I have no idea why, in all cases, the fine members of Congress who are not of the case trust or do not want to examine the overall picture that can be seen today. There may be different reasons. Some may be so great at European Union that they see it, as the Thord Þorsteinn of Pálsson, former chairman of the Independence Party, writers in his fistula, shown in his will today, at all times in light there, may have appeared elsewhere at the beginning - the Ring Road, yes. [[Circleway.]] That's exactly where he goes over that it's a brilliant way to open people's will again to walk in the European Union, i.e. bringing in this energy package. It's a bit intense, and I understand it, so the Convergence and the Convergence, possibly Piratar, are a part of it. However, I find it hard to understand what has gone wrong with the three board of directors who have so far - at least one of them - I could actually believe that the Independence Party was split today as often as it was before when it happened to the Europeans, which is unfortunate, that there was something going on. So you don't know unless one of those groups simply wants to continue to adopt EU electricity policy, to produce more of the system that makes energy more market. A member of the Independence Party may see an opportunity in it, but it's a bit awesome if it's within the left green, if left green, sees it as an opportunity for the country to sell its resources or the energy from the resources in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u460	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I noticed this especially when I spoke. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir on web service today. Hv. A senator gave me considerable attention to keeping there busy in presenting false information that is necessary to correct. Plus, it says 'w'. A senator during the interview that the Central Party is stopping everything at the council and there is no subject here because the Central Party stops everything. This is simply wrong because the middle class - and right to keep it in place - has invited the matter to be taken out of the program and other cases placed in front, such as financial policy, health policy, financial programs, etc. Thus, it is not against us members of the Middle Class. You're right to keep it up. We've invited divisions and the government to settle matters at the council and set this matter aside for the time being. But what I wanted to say to him was what I wanted to say. A senator is at ease. paritaprevir Þorgerður Katrín Gunnarsdóttir also says during the interview that the Central Party wants to go back to the old time, where there was no energy prices. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator didn't realize it, but I say it here and now I want to go back to the old time because electricity for homes and businesses in this country was much cheaper than it is today. I'd like to get past what's happened. A senator would have to know if such false reasoning is not necessary. [[The president calls.]] That once again such false reports are naturally reprehensible, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u461	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for his speech. It's just a sheet of paper, and there's no basis for anyone wanting to go into secret about electrical prices. If they want other ways to do so, they can go. Besides, I have not seen that electricity levels cannot be detected or still alive for all Icelanders as they are today, without the need to produce a package of energy. This is just one more of the fine people who believe that others should be in charge of our country, i.e. to join the European Union in Brussels. There's nothing new. However, I miss the fact that these good people come on a talk chair and talk more about the matter, at least answering questions and refuting the questions we have raised. Of course, it's hard to deal with when it's all in headlines and people try to get what is called crazy or click Facebook or get into the news, just to say something. Often, it is a very meaningless magazine that will appear then, unfortunately. Of course, I understand that opposers of the Central Party in Poland are not pleased with the position of the sect, e.g. to the European Union or to the European language of this energy package, but we have been aware that we do not intend to break off the EEA contract or to cut off partnership with the European Union, at all. There's nothing like that up to us. [[The president calls.]] But we will continue to be proud of national interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u462	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator who agrees in his heart that it is two different things to represent national interests and then to stand up for his rights in two-sided contracts, which are natural to the EEA. Hv. A senator mentioned that it seems that here the members of Congress do not want to come and participate in this discussion with us members of the Middle Class. You ask yourself, " Why is that so? ' I know, for example. so that quite a few members of the council have not spoken up during the discussion, nor expressed themselves in the introduction, this important matter. The same members of Congress complain that we are occupying a council hall and freezing all other cases, etc., showing what kind of language this is. I think it's minimal if you want to speed up the discussion and take part in it and answer the claims of the government and those in favour of the case, and we'll see in a few times. I mentioned why. paritaprevir Þorgerður's Katrín's Gunnarsdóttir would have made certain statements on the Internet. There she again set in competition and consumer business, so much consumer business. We have repeatedly refuted that fact, consumers have had no advantage in these power bags, from the market of electricity. We've shown dozens of percent of the increase in house - to - house electricity, to the public, to a business in the country, and something called consumer protection is totally unsuspecting. Still, they try to filter into the public that it is such a bad consumer protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u463	V.E.G. President. I thank a senator for his answer. I'm just gonna go back and agree for a second. A member of the council said in his previous answer to stress that it is, of course, the president who decides what matters are on the program and therefore can easily change it and let others know that while this matter may need to be discussed or cooled in any way, another such thing has been done in this hall, so you review it. In fact, I remember a president who spoke after a considerable discussion: I'm not going to set up a meeting if this is to continue. He simply made humans talk. But that is not the case. Now we have a huge case in front of us that we need, of course, to cross. It's interesting as hell. A senator also mentioned how many members of Parliament have not addressed this discussion. Perhaps they view this as a small, insignificant matter that doesn't have to go over. I find it very serious, if so, because it is the European Union's electronic policy that is being adopted in Iceland. We are enforcing certain rules and laws in the European Union's laws that should matter, especially those of the councils who speak for their independence. I'd like to mention something else. A senator entered, a constant cover-up of consumer protection, and a reduction in electrical prices. Why do members of Congress not reason and reason with examples of where the great consumer protection is and how the electrical prices have fallen and how it will decrease in these changes? It's just a phrase, a word that doesn't have meaning, if it's not logical in any way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u464	Mr. President. It was evident in TV's seven news reports now that the country's public wants a better presentation of a three - pack of energy. That's what it said. The public wants this presentation. He wants to talk to him. This is exactly what we've said that has been conjuring the mother for some time because the presentation of this case, as badly as it is done, has been in complete damage. That is why it is even more urgent. I think this is how the messages, the answers that appeared earlier when the people on the street were asked what they thought, so that the people, the people, want this case to be postponed until autumn, and that time is used for further introductions to reach a broader solidarity on the subject that is necessary, absolutely necessary. The former president of the Republic once spoke of a big matter that was up to the fact that there was a gap between a council and a nation. I think it opened up again. It's us who are here at the council, making sure it's over. It is for us to build a bridge over this gap between the International Assembly and the nation. We do not do this by driving this case through in the preflight, in the scapegoat with the public's will. We don't do it that way. It was held here on the stairway earlier by the President of the Generals that the Central Party was abusing the Senate. That's not true. The central party and we who are fighting are protecting and defending our democracy. And what has been the result of this struggle for a few days and a few nights? Yes, exactly what happened with the people on the street just now. The people of the country want to be talked to. They want to be treated like people. They do not want to be pushed into their neck language to some matter that is in opposition to the majority of the people. They do not want to be offered to be the stage for a dramatic step that cannot be corrected in a good way. The people of the land simply insist that as members of this legion, the situation will be handled in a careful manner, with which we have a solution. Mr. President. There is a shortage of this matter up to that point. A few days ago and a few nights ago, we began discussing this matter deeply with the middle class. Every day, or every single night, new information - every single day - has been developed that strengthens our discussion, which strengthens our belief that the matter is being done badly, that it is critical, that it even violates a constitution, and that it contains a bigger and more power execution than ever before. That's the things people in the country are worried about. They do not want their children's future and grandchildren to be given foreign authority. They do not want to go out of line with the republic's constitution. Mr. President. Therefore, this matter should be delayed already and recorded as early as the year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u465	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his speech. I also heard this interview at the highest. The general president of the council wondered if he was concerned about the Senate about some of the special lengths of the discussion. Because we all know the highest. The platform has not been saved by the president particularly during his session. However, it is somewhat contrary to accuse those who want to discuss material matters, ask questions, and look for answers, to be working against the council, while members, some of them, do not share in the debate. I think it might be easier to wonder if the Congress will work to keep people quiet, not to answer questions, not to reason, or to refute what we say, not to answer the questions we have to ask, and perhaps to answer them. Try to dissuade us, i.e. get more people involved. Unless that's how it grows. Congress officials do not trust to stand here and speak for this matter. Rather, they answer questions that have arisen. A few members of the council have spoken the language, but their comments and talks have raised questions rather than questions. I'd like to ask a senator if there is any reason to believe that this large energy package could somehow be a lesson for the council, i.e. that in the course of this magnitude, we must encourage members of the council to participate in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u466	Mr. President. Yeah, yeah. A senator is the short answer. Of course, the first thing in it, and natural in all matters that go through this council, is that there is a problem, especially in terms of this national situation, not just for now but for the future, a case that cannot be unwinded, even if you find that this has been made a mistake. That's what we've been pointing out, that there's a serious risk that this is a big mistake. There are others who were not necessarily called by the State Department or Business Committee, who now appear on community and elsewhere and say exactly what we have been saying in this discussion: The warnings in this case are not right. If there's a legal hearing for wrong induction, we're facing damages. There have more than one and more than two said; and this morning, last, a respected lawyer answered the highest claim. The prime minister of yesterday in a very decisive and clear way. We must strive to win this case in a way that will not harm us, to our council, to our shame, in time to our children, and to our grandchildren. That is what we need to trust and secure now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u467	A respectable president. Hv. A senator mentioned in his reply the words of Prime Minister today, or rather the writing of district attorney Arnar Þór Jónsson because of the words of prime minister in which the prime minister is now quite correct, very penpen, pointing out that there is nothing in this matter all that a government has prepared to prevent a private citizen from being able to appeal a case against the state. Some lawyers believe that this case would be lost in the state, and they point to various reasons for this. Despite the fact that prime minister said that there are no lawyers who feel differently than she claimed at least. Four lawyers said otherwise. First, there is the latest writing, written as the district judge mentioned earlier. In his reports on the energy package, the year manEyjólfur Ármannsson alerts. He works in Norway. Then, in a footnote 62, these partners, Stefán Már and Friðrik, point out that the Power Institute of an Orc is rejecting an application that itself wants to lay an electrical cord and connect, companies might turn to ESA with a lawsuit that could end up in a contract code against Iceland. Such a situation could be difficult in Iceland. Is that not something to look into? There is no shame in considering the new information being presented, if the administrative body would like to take such a course. He doesn't have to listen to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u468	Mr. President. I have previously made a point of saying that they are not exactly on the right track, and choosing a different course may be wiser. In this case here and now there's no room for this kind of private pride. In view of new and better information, there is no room for senators and politicians to fail to act because they have chosen the wrong way, want to deviate from it, and do what is right. I'm almost sure that many of the senators who initially had doubts about this matter - and I hold it out of this chair - were even deceived to follow the case by waving at them and saying: "Now it's all gone. We have a warning for which there is no doubt about it. It's safe to support this situation. They even said that to 1st. who were skeptics before: I was not sure about this matter. But when I heard about these warnings, I quietly said: " Now I'm on the side of it. I don't believe that two masks run on that senator. I believe that they will now say as we do: Is it not right to pause? Is it not right to consider this matter more carefully? It's huge. There's no room for mistakes in this case, so let's be careful. Let us postpone the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u469	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. A real need for discussion. A senator opened, i.e. About the gap between council and nation. In this regard it is very important that the public be well informed on this matter because it has to do with future generations. This is true of decades in the future. I've said before that there seems to be something in the national soul, and you sometimes feel that Icelanders don't think long enough of their time. The Chinese think 100 or 200 years in advance. Many countries have plans. We see that the European Union has plans, as reported in a Minister's report on the exact energy issues. At least they're thinking ... until2050. In this light, the natural apathy of many members of the council is strange. I think that's about what I'm talking about. Twenty senators who have not spoken up on this big, big case. There are 52 members of Parliament who are involved, whereas 20 have never expressed themselves on the subject. Which shows the need to discuss the matter fully. To argue that it's over, we're stalling the case is natural twists. But this is an introduction to the discussion, i.e. For a gap between council and nation, as it were. A senator mentioned. Is it not our job to maintain an active discussion and to provide information for the public and that members of the council will be active in the discussion? [[The president calls.]] Is it not to try to bridge this vat?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u470	Mr. President. It's our duty. We, elected agents of the General Assembly, have many responsibilities. We have an obligation to the constitution, which we have sworn to. In this case, so that you speak with caution, at least to the extreme degree, the lengthiness of the constitution is tested, even to the breaking of its ordinances. That doesn't mean saying, "Well, we've so often stepped onto the line that the Constitution can stand. " There's no reason. We also have a responsibility to the people of the country to deal with the matters we handle, let alone when they are of this magnitude, as I have said before. It is our duty to prevent it when we, when we know, when we receive evidence every day and a new argument every day that this is a mistake. Then shall we bear the charge to protest, saying, No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Let us see. Let's look for a broad solidarity. It is also our duty. We who have opposed the case are not just thinking about our voters, though we would naturally like to stand by our campaign code, not in the face of what the three governments are now betraying in this matter. But that's not what it's all about. The point is that this will not be an unrepeatable mistake. That's what we want to prevent.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u471	Mr. President. It's a very important one. A senator, that this will not be an unrepeatable mistake. That's what it's all about. Governments, governments, carers, or groups supporting this issue are implementing the European Union's energy directive, which they call a three-pack of energy to the future. There will be no turning back. Only to resign the EEA agreements. Well, I don't think we Middle-class people have talked about it. However, this contract is by no means the same as it was originally proposed. In that respect, it is important to us that we consider the pros and cons of the agreement. That is quite different from having claims to resign. But first and foremost, we are to make good use of the right we have of the contract and to be proud of those things, not to be giving some kind of fear over the fact that the deal will upset us, that it will be dismissed, etc., some effect on us. I'd say it's such a specific negotiation technique, and I think it comes in part from the European Union and possibly from Norway too, those who are in agreement there. But I appreciate it. A senator for bringing this up. It is very important to keep that this will not be done again if it is approved. We see the consequences of an energy package of one and two, higher energy prices for homes and businesses in the country, and we are taking even larger steps that we realize can have serious consequences for us as national and domestics and businesses in our country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u472	Mr. President. Those who disagree and we have nothing to listen to. They don't have to listen to us. They need to listen to the advice of the most skilled experts in Iceland and listen to them and have the good fortune to say to themselves: Is it not right to consider this matter a little bit more? Now I'm looking, for example. to the highest. Prime Minister, a woman whom I deeply respect and believe in. Now that she has realized that what she said yesterday is not all worth right - because there are lawyers, not just one, not two, who say: The government and the government are in the wrong way in this matter, so please turn off that path, and win the case better, supply it better, seek better counsel, stay, or correctly say, "Go for the best of men, and reject the package and send him into a reconciliation process in the common EES Committee. I believe in the highest. Prime Minister will react. I believe in it. She can be sure that if she and her board do this, I can say to the highest level. Prime Minister: She is not alone in this case if she wants to go a better way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u473	Mr. President. I just want to access a pack of four energy, which I think is absolutely needed and we've established within our speeches. I singled it out especially for an interview. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter on the grid today, I think, when she said that her opinion was that these packages should be separated, taken individually. I don't agree with that. I think it's necessary to carefully review a pack of four energy before the three energy package is, I suppose, approved. We would've wanted to see an exception from him, and hopefully it would. Perhaps the day comes when the government will realize the last figures on how much is at stake and listen to some of our indications we've made - in a perfunctory way, I'll say. Today, it is different from some members of the council who have made claims that do not work out. I mention, for example. The claim that electrical prices have not been raised by the induction of a energy package one and two. That's wrong. The price has gone up a lot, and we've demonstrated that. I have done so both in speech and in literature. At any rate, though, a pack of four energy is further building the supranational power. It is very likely that there will be the matter of the control factor, i.e. Whether this is a constitution or opposed to it, louder and richer that you will be examined into the basement. It must be said at the moment, Mr. President, that it is an amazing hearing for the management to intend to postpone it. It may be asked, " Is it not against a constitution and, in fact, a violation of the Constitution planning to postpone the action until the cable has arrived? ' I think it's a matter of opinion whether it's actually under the constitution to do that. However, it is the European Union's energy agency referred to as ACER, which is responsible for increasing power in a four - pack of energy. The Management Board is expected to practice a much more strict monitoring of this electronic system and to improve energy efficiency and to promote energy exchange. The policy is that there will be a smooth network between countries, connections between countries, that is the main policy, which will then ensure that energy flows safely from those areas where energy prices are low to higher energy prices. But this is not the case at all today. It is likely that the current transport capacity between the European Union will need to be tripled in order to do so. The result, then, will be the integrated European energy prices that will be much higher than the Icelanders have ever seen. There we see our huge interests in keeping electrically low intensity here. By implementing this directive, there is a high possibility that it will not be done. One wonder: Why should we be giving it up to want to adopt the common market system and become participants in the process of connecting to some common market? That's what we do with the directive, so we encourage us to be participants in it. This is a fact. Those who vote by it do so. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. I see that time is running fast and must continue with this talk later. I wish to be reassigned to the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u474	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for putting the fourth energy package on for tonight. I think we're going to discuss him considerably more, at least. I think it's necessary. I guess I'm not trying to reveal any secrets when I say that we're working on it together with these discussions, getting information about the fourth pack of energy, and it seems obvious to me that there's no other way to look at the third person in relation to the fourth one, right now that he's already there. It has now been shown that the fourth energy package has already been sent to Norway's government so that it can install that package. After the third. Then I guess it's just the same thing to expect in this country. That's why you're telling me what to say. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín's Gunnarsdóttir, who lay. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson pointed to, in particular, that these packages should be examined individually. The more important it was to me, in view of the fact that the relatively few of the rulers and the heads of the government. Councilmen from the government classes in this case who have expressed themselves something about it so they may have sought it over and over to put it in context of the past, set up the third energy package as the inevitable result of the first and second energy package and what has happened since then. Instead, they think they'd like to discuss the fourth energy package. Or how do you think? A senator will be the discussion when the fourth energy package arrives if the third has been approved as the inevitable consequence of previous induction?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u475	Mr. President. I think it's clear what the fourth energy discussion will be like. She's gonna have to agree with him because we've approved an energy package one, two and three. That's why I think it's going to be the methodology when it comes to bringing in a pack of four energy. But what is very interesting about this matter, and why. A senator entered it in his case, since the Norwegian government has now received these types and directives and a fourth energy package and sent out for review. We, however, have no news of this. The government keeps this thing tight. Mr. President. I just feel like it's a very relaxed business. Of course, we're going to get the information and reviews of the fourth energy package along with the third energy package. There are indiscriminate connections between here and here. It is only part of the informed discussion that we see where we are going. It is always that attitude, and particularly concerning this government, that it is the right thing to take all the smallest steps. There's nothing on the road, the way this thing's going to develop. All the complete images are missing, just like postponing the administrative factors until the cable comes. Everything that is difficult is always postponed and needs further and better discussion. That's why it's very strange that this case should only run through, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u476	Mr. President. I would argue that if you use the first and second energy package as a rational support for the inevitability of bringing in the third one, it will not only be harder to reject its induction fourth, but it may become almost impossible. The reason I believe this is the case is because the first and second energy package was originally called the first and second energy directives, in contrast to the regulations that make up the third energy package. By decrees, however, there are more freedoms for the country to adapt to situations - freedom that Iceland did not use but became more Catholic than the pope, as mentioned earlier in the discussion. However, the third pack of energy consists of regulations directly requiring continuation. It is almost as shallow as the third energy package. This might be likened to the first and other electrical decrees that were like temporary homes or tents that could be moved. But with the third energy package, we are sinking base. And then we'll see what the drawings are like. We will see what the European Union will be building on top of it. Actually, it starts with a change in the third energy package. And then the fourth one comes. The question is, Mr President: What will Iceland's defenses be about changing the third energy package that has already been introduced into the European Union and then the fourth energy package if the third energy package is to be fully introduced, as far as it is heading?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u477	Mr. President. Yeah, what's Iceland's defense? That's a very important question. I believe, however, that it is clear that the government is not interested in maintaining protection, as it were. We can only see it crystals in that the government is not ready to take the legal route we have to take the case to the joint EEA committee. It is the right place to resolve issues. The government is not ready to go, but it is going to take a course called the next best way, so to speak, to set a warning that will be one - sided. It has been shown many times that the European Union is not impressed by exceptions or warnings, let alone warnings. I think it's just doomed to fail. So I must now say that Iceland's defenses on these topics are extremely minor. There's a way out. Today, there was a very remarkable introduction from a district attorney in their discussion that no warning came about. Electric energy has been defined as product, and if we're going to stop pulling back and forth, like it's going to be done under the EEA Convention, we'll just have a lawsuit and we'll be judged. This is exactly the same thing we've been tracking here in the meat business. So, Mr. President, the conclusion is that no reasonable defense is being maintained in our case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u478	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much for his speech. I know he's not finished at all with everything he wanted to say on this case, but I cut in particular by his questioning on the definition of energy. In my knowledge, the definition of energy, as it looks at the European Union, is thought of as a product. Then I'd like to ask. A senator if he has any idea where that definition ends. If we're talking about energy in Iceland, it's going to touch the anticipated resources, rivers and lakes. Already there are activation options. To say that, I also feel very important, such as well. A senator came in earlier, that we look at all these packages in context. I wish it had already been clear with an energy package what was contained in a pack of two, three, four, five, etc. But what I'm mostly wondering is, where do we draw the line in the definition of energy as product? Does that mean that the resources are underneath?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u479	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Of course, it is very interesting to wonder. Where does the definition of what is a warning to the European Union and the four so - called freedoms? Clearly, there was no hope that electricity would be defined as a warning and that it would submit to the same laws as other products in that subject. But that has become reality. We see what it has meant for us. The marketing of electricity has not benefited us Icelanders. I'm telling you, I'm telling you. There are members of Congress who believe that this has become an important competition, consumer protection, etc. It doesn't make any sense. If it's some competition, I think it's part of a fake competition, and the scholars have written it and showed that these things have been against us. That's the point. Of course you don't know where it's gonna end. We have natural precious resources, e.g. Our water clean and clear, which is a very large resource. I say for what I say, what? A senator: This has not benefited us. That is why we should learn from experience and go very carefully to the earth when it comes to the source of the energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u480	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to know the answer. It is true that electricity and energy are one of the basics of our society, and at least I thought I read the Kingdom TV news earlier that we should not treat it as competitive, but as a foundation of our community and one of our baseline values, if I can put it that way. I want to turn my song into a cross. I've wondered a lot about the facet of the Constitution and the possible violation of the Constitution if we were going the way of the government. I'd like to remember an interview in the Morning Press from just before 2018, which was quoted. Minister of Þórdís Reykfjörð Gylfadóttir, The Smoke Land of Gylphad, believed that it would be quite close to the Constitution to go that way. I remember her saying those words at a council Hall. I'm in what? A senator, depending on what he believes, has done so in the highest order. The minister seems to have changed his mind, since it is now due to be moved through quickly and safely, and it is claimed that it is not a matter that will not affect us in any way, so to speak.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u481	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Yes, there are both. Councilmen and former Ministers changed their minds extensively in that regard. We have, for example, the greatest attention to the change in the left green. They were opposed to an energy package at their time, giving good talks and giving sound reasons on that subject. On the other hand, those who are not aware of this discussion now do not want to express themselves as much as it does, which is natural to observe. It is only to see that the group has just fallen from their ideals in this respect and is beginning to agree with the marketing solutions and market systems by supporting our becoming participants in the market of electricity in the European Economic Area. It's a big deal of communication in a group that has not been considered a markety category, in order to be spoken of as mild. All of this brings us much attention. I've told you before, I feel like they're these people, they're the reason. Councilmen and members who have so carefully changed their mind owe voters an explanation of why. Then there is another research project on how they skim at the grass roots and their supporters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u482	A respectable president. I have been in my speech discussing speculations and questions relating to the link between the third and fourth energy packages, i.e. what questions would be reasonable to consider in context, since all of this is a combination. I will, if there is any chance, later I will review a memo that came from the 2004 Labour and Neon Department, which includes the request for adjustment and other items requested by Icelanders at its time. I'd like to mention one before we go any further, tops. President. In this magazine or the memo, and this may be relevant in the sea cable discussion, Norway requested in its own time of release from the model 72/2009. So Iceland had previously been turned down to be a small isolated system, but Norway's parole note in this workforce of the day, with permission of presidents: Norge requested annuity from the command to transport electricity to the oil pots of Norway's land base. The Commission did not accept the adjustment, the directive of activity in the EU budget and the land base of Member States. Some have wondered that this type of value cannot be found on the base, the bottom of the ocean. However, as far as I can see in 2014, the European Commission already laid down on the European Commission when Norway tried to obtain a reserve for electrical transport to its oil farms, which I assumed to be cables laid on the surface to the drilling grounds, that the Commission did not accept the adjustment because the directive, 72/2009, was valid for the activities of the special economic account EEZ and nationalisation of Member States. I'm hoping that those who have claimed that this directive does not apply to the land base in Iceland wonder if it's the second Icelandic national base and the Norwegian. I'm not the kind of person in this law to be able to find out. Actually, I can't think of it. Member States must always be interpreted in the same way. How clear, then, that there is yet another point to be considered and made clear! I'm not sure, sir, that the followers of this case have realized that the European Union considers the design not only of the mainland but also of the bottom of the ocean within the jurisdiction of each State. That was an extension. I must now admit, Mr. President, that I had read this a while ago but not yet come that, perhaps, should have been done sooner. But this is a very important point. So it's repeated here in the platform, it's in the job and innovation's memorandum, the office of energy and industry. The Foreign Affairs Commission sent this. The diary is dated April 28th, 2014. But to the questions that I was wondering about and that I am, of course, connected in some way. Now it is possible to wonder whether the introduction of 72/2009 would include a non-registered power agency. Are we perhaps handing over some authority over our land base? Has it been tore, topv? President? I don't remember seeing it. Perhaps it has just slipped by, and perhaps it is included in other forms. But is it true that whether there are electrical strings or something else, we are giving up on the bottom of our economic law?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u483	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a very interesting talk and included in this discussion that has not been published before. When it comes to the basis and bottom of the ocean, this is a basic question to answer, i.e. whether we're giving up some rights there. And what's wrong. A senator named here and traced Norway very interesting. It just shows that there are many surfaces of this matter and that there are always something new to come up on the surface that needs to be examined and answered. As for the bottom of the ocean, if a sea cable, which will happen, must be placed, what will that mean? What will that mean for our fishing ships? Care must be taken as cables lie at the bottom of the ocean and can affect fishing, etc. So there's a lot of things that play in there. It's a serious matter if we have to give up some rights on the farm and what we've been fighting for decades and have gained the prosperity of our resources, our fish stocks, has given us. So it's stuff that really needs to go over, and thank you. Once again, a senator came into it. I wanted to ask a senator a little more about this, especially Norway. It has now been shown that the Norwegian Labour Party made a warning, and a solidarity was reached in the High Council of Defense, with which the European Union seemed unwilling. I don't know. I don't know who's gonna make this decision. Senator? [[The president calls.]] Counts 'em out. A senator that comes from the Court of Justice, which can have exemplary values in our case? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u484	Accepting your apology is appropriate. A senator, but less repeated, is to respect the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u485	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. I do not trust to answer the legal precedent or the conclusion of the administrative court in Norway. It may have no effect, but it may have an effect, or give clues as to what value, let's put it that way, the warnings are made in this way, one-sided. I can't imagine that there's a difference between Norway and Iceland if the government says one side, that there's some other interpretation. Interestingly, though, it would be worth trying to find out what the Norwegian responded to at the time when it was clear that they would not receive this command. 72/2009 on electrical transport to the oil dumps. If they accepted the directive without having some sort of space, this memo is 2014, that's what I'd say, a significant occasion for Iceland to stop. Because I don't recall it at the Committee of State Affairs or Business Committees in some of the data we've seen - I may not have remembered reading some of the experts'opinions, I'm not going to claim it - that someone had mentioned the database and the economic legal history. I think it might put the matter in a new context if we start to think about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u486	Mr. President. Yes, it is indeed a new surface, and many questions arise in this regard; what is the impact on the land base and economic law? You must find answers to such persistent questions before you continue to do so. I think everyone sees how much is at stake in these things. If Norway's example is possible to show that this may be the case with a delinquency of land fishing history, it's a very serious matter. We may not have to worry about this, but it needs to be confirmed. The important thing is that in later times there will not be any opinions that men overlooked or made no prior notice, nor would there be any concern. It is not possible to handle matters of such immense interest that something is unclear about our rights in that subject, the important rights to the economic history, and the fishing history. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. Again and again, a senator for calling attention to this matter. It would have been good if, for example, here. The head of the State Department is in the hall and is included in this discussion. We have often noted that it is very strange and sad that non - middle - class members do not want to share in this discussion with us and consider such matters as these, which they have. A senator did so well.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u487	A respectable president. I think that would be a good idea to be taken care of, and maybe the highest. Tourism, industrial and innovation, as well as the acting minister of justice, come in here and tell us if this is also the understanding of the Ministry, which wrote this memo in its own time, that this is also relevant for Iceland's national base and economic legal history. I'd like to take this cheek a little further. If we bring this up, we agree that 72/2009 is relevant to Iceland's economic jurisdiction and land base, we may already have set a precedent for some other kind of action, directives, e.g. about any other cause, comes from the European Union, say some kind of use of metals, or something like that at the bottom of the ocean, within the base of the country, that we have set a precedent for the creation of government, power, and control of the capital? Have we made some kind of example? It's a measure I think is absolutely right. I would call for an explanation, a respectable president, to explain whether this is the way that introduces 72/2009, we would be acknowledging that this directive also applies to the economic and land bases, since it puts the matter in a slightly larger context, to say no more. It still narrows the opportunity of Iceland to pass a private lawsuit that wants to put a sea cable in the economic account using the Icelandic national base, if someone like that would sue the EFTA Court.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u488	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator of this information, which is somewhat important in view of all that we have now been accomplishing by keeping this matter awake here in the council. I find very interesting that Norway has really requested this exception in terms of sea cables, their own sea cables into their own oil pots and that they have received noance from the European Commission. That's very important information. I wondered what's going to happen here in the future, like what. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson just walked in. I'd like to get more information on what might be under here in Iceland. Does the power market also involve land base here in Iceland? What does that involve? The senator brought only metals into the bottom of the ocean and such. At least at first, I'd like to ask him if he can look into this subject a little more clearly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u489	A respectable president. I'm not going to say so, but I think I've heard it in one of those few speeches that came from those agents who want to introduce these matters here, who support the case, that someone has said, "They really think we don't have our own economic history, and something like that? I think I've heard it here, so I'm not gonna mention the senator I think he said it because I'm not sure about it. But yes, we can think of that, especially when it is clear that Norway seems valid. Now is the question: Can we get some experts to find out? In Norway, that seems to apply to the Norwegian economy and land base, and then it must apply to Iceland. It means to me that if a person, a company, wants to build a wind power park, I'm gonna stick with it, wind garden, say only Langanesi, and put a sea cable to Scotland, and possibly sell it to Europe, this directive applies to land base and economic law, which will strengthen the prospective legal structure of the person, if he will sue the Icelandic state, for example. Because Ennis has denied him permission or has been tried to place some other restrictions on the repair of this string. I think it's worth looking at. Regarding the rest of the economic law and land base, I went up here to answer to a different question. A senator whether it could set an example if we adopted this directive. It may be seen that the Norwegians from the induction set an example for them in some form of practical use, and in economic history, than for a sea cable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u490	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. As a result, I quote Dr. Arnar Þór Jónsson's attorney on Facebook last night, where he was discussing warning and then a sea cable. He contends that if the United States tries to prevent a cord from being laid, it will be sullied against Iceland. I'd like to try to add to that as a matter of course. In his speech earlier, a senator wrote that even the European Union's laws have become superior to our own laws. In this regard, it means that the precedent may already be in charge of the decision in Norway, according to this April 2014 memo. There are many questions we would need to be able to answer, because Iceland's land base is nothing more than resources, just like resources on land. Is Aggressive? Has it become a product in this common European electricity field? What does it look like? A senator owns it? Is it some kind of intertwin? We'd need some answers to get ahead with these things.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u491	A respectable president. The energy coming from our resources is defined as warning, and it has the same rules as for other products that need to be run freely according to the four so-called freedoms. If we look at it in relation to the will of a company located in Germany, Denmark, or just Norway, and we want to build a wind power park in Iceland, lay a sea cable itself, carry its product out in Iceland, then the Icelandic state cannot, according to at least. Four lawyers have identified, prevented, unless they have a contract violation or a violation of contract agreements with the European Economic Area, which may likely lead to a damage requirement and possibly also to the State's obligation to allow the relevant enterprise to land sea cables, etc. But it's crystal clear, and I don't think anyone objected that the energy is a product. It's so special, if you put it in context of how politics sometimes changes, that left greens, who don't now have marketed resources, did not want the market of Iceland's nature, now contribute to energy, heat energy, still have more market and market value. They are even ready to introduce a structure that says that the basis and the economic record are under the same laws, i.e. to prevent these targets, the markets of energy, that energy can cross borders.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u492	Mr. President. I would like to include in this talk another point that was presented in the answers to the highest. Secretary of state when he was here with us for the third time. Friday. As it turned out, as I did in my first talk about that visit by the minister, not much of a question of answers, but something remained, and I wanted to return to the answer. Minister that started at 2 p.m. 17,47 for those who want to find the answer. It was really a reaction to a question directed to the minister on whether he believed that the government and he, in fact, had been the object of the matter's duty -- this is not a formal duty - or take care to draw up a stage so that both the Polish, the senators, and the public could recognize the impact of the different ways that are involved and, in particular, focus on drawing up a stage of how the environment in this home changes first during the induction of the third pack of energy, and then the repairing of the sea cables, whenever it may have to do so. It's most recently said that all these films had sadly gone past me, but the minister stood here written and answered, on permission of the president: ... sothatwhenwrong. A senator talks about stage photos, and something like that has gone through it. It was just like that. It's been through it. It may well be at the top. Ministers have gone through it in the Ministry with members of the government or with their assistants. I don't know. V.E.G. The president is probably the only person in the hall who could answer the question of whether the stage was drawn. We have not seen any of them at all, and there is no need to call for a foreign minister to consider it, economicly, or really any type. It has not been proposed to us senators to try to discern the impact of the induction and the effect of the transpiration has since taken place, unless some empty claim that all of this is going to reduce the price of a great deal. In this context, four minutes later the highest was observed. Minister to answer the person here who said, by permission of the president: The price has been reduced by two sources. The electricity trade factor has fallen, but because we have been involved in construction of carriers and other factors have increased the transport factor. This is exactly the central point of all of this. For home and business in the country, it doesn't matter how the electronic bill is made up. What matters most is the total amount and, if the supporters of this induction, on the basis of the highest level. The minister of foreign affairs sets up, thinking that topography is enough. A minister claims that if power prices are reduced, and in that case, we are at some point where I think most of us would not like to be on the subject of a professional performance and an attempt to support logic. I can't imagine that a few members of the government are pleased that these are all the stage shots offered unless they were much more detailed and deeper at the council meetings. But they have certainly not been exposed to us, the general senators, and there is no evidence in reply to the Supreme Court. Minister from then on. Friday morning. 17,47 that it was in a way that differs from what we see. Like I say again, with president's permission, when it's done. A senator speaks of stage photos, and something like that has gone through it. It's just over. [[The president calls.]] However, it was only that none of us in the hall today recognize any of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u493	Mr. President. That was interesting. Of course, it is amazing, and it is really strange that in such a large, effective, and controversial way of doing preparatory work is not to be carried out and that there are no stage shots. But I'm going to allow myself to bring up that theory, and I'd like to hear it. A senator can agree with it, that the effect of all of this together is somewhat predictable. First, because we know where the European Union is headed with this third energy package, secondly, because it will continue on the same path even if it needs to improve in order. It goes on in the direction that the Empire in Brussels wants to see things progress, and then we've seen so many examples of it, and not just in the European Union, but today, in general, how the system moves its tasks and continues to reach its conclusions, no matter what happens in the meantime. At times, there may be delay, but whatever the case, the system's functions continue to turn in one direction. We can give a lot of Icelandic examples, The Land Hospital on Ring Road, I think everyone is more and less aware that this is nonsense, but the system had just decided that it should develop in this direction, and then it does. Another example is the airport and how it's being developed. In other words, so I'll take this together to one question, Mr President, can't we quite give ourselves to what will be going if we accept the third energy package? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u494	Mr. President. The answer to this question is: Yes, much of it is available for us to determine what the effect will be. The aims of EU energy policy are clear to all. There's no hideout with them, and I think that anyone should be aware of what has come into play on the main lines of progress, impact, and consequences. I have to say for myself that I feel sorry for the government in general not to paint this picture for us, for the fact is that more and less all of us -- well, all of us, all of us, say man, they get the supporters of this introduction that has been introduced to the subsequent pages. Have more and less in substance said that all our concern is nonsense and nonsense. Meanwhile, it is only a reasonable requirement for those who speak to this matter to be prepared to list and draw out the most likely effects. Sports are frightening to these substances. By this time and regularly say that the energy prices have fallen so much at the induction of the first and second energy package, they all experience what is a rift in reality. I do not know many families who have experienced this since the energy package routes began to drop the total energy prices in the home. I'd just like to hear a few families like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u495	With me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u496	So it's some sort of beige as a dog. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir has in Mosfellstown. [[The president calls.]] Of course it's predictable what's going to happen, but I think it's our own requirement that there's some diagnosis.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u497	Mr. President. Yes, yes, it is quite reasonable criticism and more than that. Of course I'll agree. Of course, as I could at the beginning of the previous answer, such an analysis should be available, and it is surprising that it is not. I know how the system works. Hv. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason knows how the system works. V.E.G. Mr President knows how the system works, but we may not know if it's the highest level. The minister of foreign affairs is actually aware of how the system works, or whether he is either blind to it deliberately or unintentionally. Maybe he realizes it, but he wants to avoid discussions about these scenarios that we can pretty much give ourselves how it would be, just as people hide, let's say it politely, men don't do much with the vast amount of information available, and would have had a great explanation in this matter of fourth energy package, language status in Norway and Norwegian warnings. You could count that long. These are basic data in the case that could have helped more with the staging process than data that is simply inserted under a chair. I'm afraid the Ministers, many of them, may not even be involved in all of this. I built it, for example. in my attempt to ask the highest. Minister to Norwegian advance. I thought they came from the mountains, which is very strange after sitting on the case this long, to trouble with it, but don't at least have it. In Norway, however, people had been through this during the Norwegian Parliament. Well, maybe. A senator trying to figure this out for me? Why? What Is the Cause? [[The president calls.]] Are they simply not personally involved, or do they not want to discuss what we consider to be inevitable?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u498	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson answered. A person has a certain understanding that the presidents and officials are class members, e.g. Developing, which continues to be part of Iceland's membership in the European Union, rejoices that, in the least of the issues involved, it will be run through as our continued training camp adapting to the European Union's regulations. A statement by which. paritaprevir Of course, the Þorgerður of Gunnarsdóttir's Katrín was amazed that the fourth energy package was of no importance; there was no entry into this discussion on the induction of the third energy package because it was just packages and supplied alone. It's an attitude that can't resist a rational view. Of course, the fourth package would be checked if they were wondering if they would accept the third package when it is possible that the combination would occur, and that in the fourth energy package, you are responding to certain missing items and not fully reached in the third energy package, including, if any. by increasing and strengthening the domain of the ACER Agency. That's all there is to it, no hiding with it. To answer a question, why? The senator is more interested in discussing all the issues that have come up and all the data that should be key data in the implementation of this Regulation or the approval process, I have said earlier that, unfortunately, members of these fine three governments think that evil is the best thing to do is to allow the prisons to pass over while these Central Parliaments stand here and fight in this. [[The president calls.]] So I hope this problem is gone and they don't have to worry about it again soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u499	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. He makes a talk of one part of the case where there is insufficient information on the part of the government, the secretary of state, and the people on the case. But it's like it's the whole thing. There are many questions that need answers. What's the problem? I'm going to let me shoot in some kind of research theory that people might wonder about. Perhaps it is better that there is more than a shorter time between what the government groups approve of this and the election. That could be the explanation. What's the hurry? Other: repeatedly cited warnings. No information can be found on the exact location of the legal advance. There are so many theories that they cannot be counted. One nice dog. A member of the administrative body, which is a very determined sponsor of the third energy package, from a group that declared support to the case before it was so much presented, Þorsteinn Víglundsson, described today, if I took just after, that the company was looking for a bill of law. Secretary of the trade. There is no explanation about the relationship with the fourth energy package. There is no information as to what the analysis has been made of the current position, that foreign people, grays for irons, put in a sea cable, and subsequent damages. [[The president calls.]] The matter is not properly informed. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: What explanation does he give that many aspects of the matter are not clearer on the part of the government? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u500	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson of Isle has answered. Of course, the question won't be much of a question to me, for you must, of course, try to carry something that could be called an informed glass about what it is like. However, during the days of the discussion, something new has appeared as a real product, which really matters every day. I still can't remember that any of the major things that have occurred since the beginning of the last week were answered by any means. All the things that turn on the alleged warnings are that you do not know exactly whether to laugh or to cry. I'm going to allow myself to frame the absurdity of the core point that seems to have been the decision-making factor of a lot of people, to witness to what the district judge Arnar Þór Jónsson wrote yesterday. There the district judge is responding to the words of a prime minister who said by permission of a president: Then all lawyers agree that no obligation will be derived from the energy package to allow sea cables to be restored between Iceland and other EEA countries... The district judge Arnar Þór Jónsson, by permission of the president, answers: I don't trust to speak for all lawyers, such as the prime minister does here, but I think it's right and necessary to emphasize one point: When this sea cable is financed (whether it's a foreign or a foreign company that does it), it won't matter to me. This is because if the United States still tries to prevent the cord from being laid, it will be a legal offense against Iceland. The Icelandic state will obviously lose the language of energy, as shown by the Tetragrammaton on free flow. I think we're about to take this warning talk off the table soon. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u501	Mr. President. I have studied this entry, as it is called, District Attorney Arnar Þór Jónsson, and I thank him for the answer. Of course, she's getting a lot of attention, and she likes it. A senator said, contains the opinion of a highly accepted and well - valued lawyer in that regard. It's gonna reveal to the highest. The prime minister is caught off to an important aspect of this case when he noticed that all lawyers agree that a third energy package does not include the fixation of a sea cable, it will never be done unless it is decided by the Council. And answer Arnar, son of Þór Jónsson, as it were. A senator's tail is like this, with the permission of a president: No exchange will be made when this sea cable is financed (whether it is a domestic or a foreign company that does it) Then he runs the reasons for it. In this regard, of course, it is proper to consider that the legal advisers had warned it and made it clear that exactly the situation that Arnar Þór Jónsson makes possible the subject. This they do on page Stefánsson in their Hirst of the government. This is in footnote 62. They feel that Iceland could face a case and that it would be so overwhelming that Iceland would not be able to do well in such a case. [[The president calls.]] What do you think? In view of that, would a senator prepare this case on the part of the government? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u502	Mr. President. As for my opinion of preparation, it must be acknowledged that those who have followed the discussion will not doubt that I have serious doubts about how the issues have been held here, in order to be spoken of in a mild way. It all indicates that praiseworthy deception, I believe, was used by the minister of foreign affairs as the former president of the Independence Party of Pálsson's own, a local minister of the case, was able to resist. You suspect that when all three members of the European Parliament were at peace with the approach presented there, there were men who did not do much more to the case, they expected it to go through the council quickly and well with small remarks. But then the fine minister lands on a wall that he did not foresee, which, of course, is the fact that men began to dive into it. They began to ask themselves critical questions and to look for answers to questions that seemed to be either badly answered or obvious that were trying to slip by. As I told you in a radio interview last Friday, the situation was already the highest. The minister of state came here and spoke to us members of the Middle House that he could have turned us off by answering questions and offering reasons and explaining the matter. But after the minister's visit, I think that it is generally possible to say that men were even more certain that the matter needed a thought and much of it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u503	Mr. President. Because I know it's the best. The president who now serves as president of the United States is a great amateur of Norwegian politics and Norwegian cooperation in general I intend to use this opportunity while the highest. The president is with us and will finish my speaking on the Norwegian account, i.e. The discussion on this matter in Norwegian politics and what we may learn from it. I started to trace several points from an Aphtenposten article in the rephrase of the business magazine and to continue for a while, to shed more light on this subject. This is a description of the situation in the Norwegian Parliament. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The U.S.A.'s opposers reasoned that it is behind the management of energy resources to EU institutions, increases in electricity prices, and decreases in the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. However, the sponsors of the package reasoned that he had no ownership of energy resources or resource management - it would simply be terrorism. This is naturally very familiar, Mr. President. So says: It was suggested that the energy package package should be postponed, especially in the light of an inexplicable position by the Icelandic government on the energy package. The Independence Party adopted a resolution at the National Convention last weekend, to be said in March 2018, Mr. President, about a year ago - ▪ that the category rejects further expansion of the European Union's dominions over the European Union's Icelandic energy markets. In a similar vein, the Special Assembly of the Tenets made a similar statement. Yet, the proposal was made in the Norwegian Council. But how did this happen? How did the postponement proposal come about and settle the matter? This happened after the government, the relatively European government, two great European groups there, of three, decided to negotiate with the Norwegian Labour Party, which agreed to allow the matter to go through, against the approval of the Council at eight o'clock. I've traced this notice, Mr. President. Actually, it was in the middle of the night. I'm not sure everyone's been able to observe that passage. But I'm not going through it all right now because I just don't have time for it. But I'm going to say in general about this warning that they are very vivid of what the Norwegian Parliament considered a reason to be concerned about this third pack of energy. One of these concerns is that the European Union, or this ACER Institute, can force a cable to be imposed on Norway. This is particularly interesting in view of the fact that there are two sea cables connected with Norway, although they believed that the European Union could move around the third. This should be even more of a concern to us Icelanders, for countries that are not connected to them are far more priorities than countries that have already been linked. The more we worry about them, the more we should have if the Norwegian Parliament saw a reason to try to make a warning or to receive a release from such forces. But now, each one is lining up as this discussion goes forward: this Norwegian captain, who proves that there is no concern in the Norwegian Parliament or fear that the European Union is knocking on the sea cables; the writing of the judge Arnar Þór Jónsson today, who in effect confirm that there is no support for the complaint if those people who wanted to put a bill of contracts on the line; and then reports in the Sunday Times about the weekend that informs that a company that has gathered one 25 investors, if I remember to pay the money from the North East to Iceland, and that it is not enough to have any other thing to do than the British businessman. This way, Mr. President, the bags are arranged together, despite the lack of trust in the government to come and explain things. [[The president calls.]] But I'm sure it would help if they were watching at least With.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u504	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It is not that he is unforeordained to discuss the Norwegian warning, eight of them. They have a direct meaning for us. We are in a situation where we are told: "In order for the investigation of the case to be made, you must have a legal warning. Then there is a problem. The legal warning is clearly intended to create the legal condition that the source of the energy package does not run into a constitution, because, very simply, that the right effects which could result in such an effect are postponed. I think I'm sure our best. Mr President, if you'd like to connect to this. But then there is the matter, and it is that the legal guardian must not be responsible for our responsibility, as it is warned, in order to form in the opinion most frequently quoted, and as the Friðrik's Árni of Friðriksson Hirst makes such a clear mention of an interview at the Memorial of April 10, 2000. when he brings up both the possibility of a contract break-up and a damage problem. And in footnote 62, on page 26. Thirty-five they warn the government when they say that the Power Agency rejects a company's application for a connection, the company could turn to ESA, which could end up in a contract violation against Iceland. Such a situation could be difficult in Iceland. You ask yourself, " Why on earth has the government not prepared more for such a situation and the consequences of this, in view of the fact that she has been warned by her own legal advisers? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u505	I'm sure a respectable president noticed as if I were probably falling in one more piece of paper, a very interesting question. The question in the air: Does the Icelandic government purposely put on weak notices or artificial advances in order not to be responsible when it comes to lawsuits? Perhaps that is why the wording was thought out, as we had noticed in a press release for Miguel the Energy Commissioner and the Supreme Commissioner. Secretary of State, and after the EFTA Committee meeting, where men are careful not to get caught up in anything. The same can be said of the wording in a report with the proposal, which is one of the hypothesiss for where the defense is, i.e. this expression in the report. Everyone everywhere is guarding the wording with the apparently intent to say later: No, we weren't ensuing, we were ensuing, we were fully introduced. We were just saying this isn't going to happen, as it was said. You see, I immediately noticed that expression. The report did not say: would not be valid, nor would it be possible to perform until the sea cable had come. When people here believe that the European Union, ACER, an energy agency acting as the representative of the Agency, should help establish this connection, they are not determined to have put in real advance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u506	Mr. President. It seems that the legal premise is primarily intended to address the situation that this constitution does not conflict with a constitution. This is the main outcome of the case. But at the same time, the main outcome of the case is that the induction of this package will create the legal situation and the situation for Iceland as its members in this partnership, after implementing Regulation 713, that when a foreign party, such as Atlantic SuperConnection, who have been made to be a media, looking for such a connection, and authors, Friðrik Árni and Már Mor, the right to return to the topic as Energy Institute, but not the World Council, they may also notice that when Power Institutes have rejected such a cause, in accordance with the Congress and the Declaration of Congress and all of this, they feel that there were no rights to be damaged by any interference which they would have made on the basis of these actions. There would be no running of small things. That's what they realized. We are talking about an investment that runs into hundreds of billions. Where is this judgment? A senator, a government custodian of this and where does it take place?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u507	Mr. President. As we have discussed, there is not much going to be to the management of the government in this case. But after what's happened. Yet, a senator tells me how well the officials have been tailored to their choice of words when they made up these so - called warnings, theories, or speculations for the politicians. They will not be charged with the use of these articles or news releases and with what men have picked up. But for what? What, then, was that foreman's purpose? I agree with what. A senator, on the one hand, was to try to postpone the constitution question, delay it to fix the sea cable, or at least to demand to lay a cable. That's different. But there was another reason. I know who she is. V.E.G. Mr President knows who she is, and I have a suspicion. A senator also knows who she is. The matter needed to be approved by a panel of lndependencemen. In this assignment, these warnings, the hand - to - hand deception, or what it was that the Þorsteinn of Pálsson, former chairman of the Independence Party, called them, came to be useful. Because the party, all as one, almost -- we don't know for certain -- turned on the dot and marched in rhythm with the energy package, wrote articles similar to that which came here and gave some talks that were similar to this one, but it's been nothing since. After all of this began to melt away, nothing came to the subject, and we began to understand more fully the nature and content of the matter. But there's still time. Hopefully, members of the Independence Party and other executives will play a game explaining why we are wrong, they believe it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u508	V.E.G. President, very much so. Hv. A senator turned in his speech to a company named, and there's only an English language, Mr. President, so I have to do it that way, Atlantic SuperConction. It says on the website of the company that it has recently changed the political landscape in Iceland and has maintained a strong relationship with Icelandic Minister. It also says that transnational support for the large link, superconction, grows ever. It also says in a recent news release of the same company that a special boss - in English CEO - has been appointed that energy development will lead to a job that aims to build a 1,500 - mile - high - power cable from Iceland to Britain. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he knew of this evolution and whether it is likely that people will be in such great trouble and will make such declarations if they are not fully prepared for exactly the application of a sea cable between Iceland and Britain. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u509	The President would be better off. The senator translated this name and proposes an atlants' insistence.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u510	Mr. President. I appreciate how strict it is. The President is in the defense of the Icelandic people. We seek to take into account the highest indication. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u511	Our man.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u512	Sure. I know this company, the Atlantshaflance, and, in fact, I've met this company's representatives in my time at the Board of Directors. They were already interested in this assignment. I said that there wasn't much political wish in Iceland before a seaband fight, and I explained that it was dedicated mainly because we saw a higher energy price, if that were the case, and that we wanted to use the energy to work within the country. Now I notice that when this company introduces the project or when it is discussed in the Sunday Times article, it is detailed that the connection will lead to a major work structure in northeastern England. This is exactly one of the top - priority regions of the British government for urban development. But clearly something has happened since then. There have been new governments, one more receptive to extracurricular ideas, whether they come from an ethnic tenant who wants to get rid of the money without paying any price for it or from the merchants who want to import more of this non-frosted meat and non-employed food or from the people of energy, such as the representatives of this Atlantic Oceanebrosy company. Evolution is all in the same direction, primarily in the positive response of the government of the United States. In this case, you begin to wonder whether this is the result of the same government's positive attitude toward the foreigners'interest in getting their own way, especially in the light of their quotations. A senator read that this is a work of cooperation with counsellors from all government groups. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u513	V.E.G. President. I admit that I think a little bit about this trend and the statements of the company that can be read on its website. I am in some way now that it would be right for the government to step up and inform me about their latest plans to move out of work because this is a business assignment. We did this in the past when we moved out unscrupulous fish in the Humber area, where there were so many thousands of people working to slaughter and prepare for fish and chips, so that they could be translated as well. But now it may be over because men are moving out the broken fish and all that, we're working it longer, and then it's time to move out jobs by connecting a sea cable between Britain and Iceland. My question to why. The senator is: Is it not proper for the senator to come forward, to explain where that work is, whether it is, as they say the good men of this Atlanshaflance company, to come to where they claim it is come, and whether it is not right to demand some kind of confirmation and/or a statement from the government that it is now a job exporter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u514	Mr. President. Of course, it is important to explain this matter. This is important because of what we are discussing, i.e. The third energy package, to shed more light on it and to shed further light on the views of this government. But this too is an interesting question. It would be interesting to find answers to questions that arise. A senator asks in terms of the fusion theory. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's been throwing up earlier in his discussion. She's going on that if I've got the right sense, the government groups will gradually become one group. Well, I guess the advance team is neutral in that mixture, but the other two become a mixture that I don't think too well what will look like because it does not activate the best of each group but perhaps the inferior. I had thought of defending myself like one speech to consider a fusion theory at the same time. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Gerstein, the Sæmundsson of Sæmund, is the first thing I'd like to hear. A senator gives me more clues that may help me shape my version of that theory. In any case, it is important for the discussion of the third energy package to clear up the context of the relationship between the Iceland government and the Atlantic Union. It would tell its own story about how likely this project will be, and possibly a new source of access to the government's third energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u515	V.E.G. President. The policy of the governments to proceed with a three-pack of energy, is quite definitive. At first, it was said that it was not a problem and that the whole matter had been examined. But soon it became clear that it was not. All of us were encouraged to tell us that the EEA Convention was in danger if we did not accept a pack of three energy, and the rest of the consequences were drawn if we did not agree. All of this was done by means of a line like this. I can see this so that if we don't use the legal means to refer a package of energy to the European Commission that at first the EEA deal will be upset. At any rate, we here have emphasized that the legal program should be carefully viewed, but the politics will also be there. If we make a cold assessment of the evidence with and against our argument, which is in opposition to the package outweighs it. It is surprising that the government groups that are opposed to joining the European Union are now going to deliver to us the rule of what will be ours. It has to be said that we've missed that the media, and especially the state media, should not resume the position and share the knowledge that has taken place in this chamber, by our going to the bottom of the discussion, I'd like to say. It has been prominent during the discussion that those who oppose the induction of a pack of three are even accused of misinformation. That's why I'd appreciate it if the Government Radio took a deep spin on the case, if we could put it that way. We may add that we have repeatedly called for answers to questions we have asked, so first we could reach some conclusion, some basis for our progress. I find it very special that the government groups intend to obey the European Union's regulations since these are not groups that want to be involved, at least not as their recent policy has been. But maybe that too is different. They don't tell you. Perhaps we are in a hurry to the EU. The same was on notice. First, they were said to be there, but there was no place to be found, despite repeatedly seeking. Today's debates have shown that they may never have been there, since the wording of the declarations and announcements, and God knows what, was all inconsistencies with one another, and very gently presented, as noted in the case of the two. paritaprevir The winners of Gunnlaugsson Gunougsson just moments ago. Of course, I can take my heart to say that Dr. Ragnar Þór Ingólfsson's son, the president of the VR, is challenging the government, as we would have done here, to delay the induction of a three at least In the autumn, an important decision is to be expected from Norway on September 23, as noted many times. I also think it's the highest. The minister of Þórdís Kolb Kolbrún The Reykfjörð Gylfadóttir has brought up the aquifer recently thereafter to delay the energy package. We face a very big challenge. We are faced with the nation's resources and thus the foundations of society. Never should we view them as products, as if at a store, and thus be able to select what is convenient from the shelf.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u516	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I have to say, the mind is thinking back a little bit, on Kastys on TV, where the guy standing here sat with the highest. Secretary of state. V.E.G. There, the minister of foreign affairs was confined, armed with speech points and the multiplicity of the legal age of Friðrik's Friðriksson Árni Hirst and Professor Stefánsson Stephen. He was a master of the show and insisted that he read not just part of his opinion but all of it and that he understood that it was the truth to be found. I think it was after this TV program that was thought to be necessary to get an appeal, called an embargo letter, from these two good scholars, so that their views were more appropriate to the foreign minister's opinions. I say this with great respect to the scholarry of both of them. The point is, it is true. One member said: "The state medium now has to use a fraction of the 4,000 million that we pay each year to blow even to another factor on the same subject, since recent days and nights have been through new information in the case, new legal views that were not obtained from the Ministry of State at their time. And my question to why. One senator: Does she not feel that it is proper to challenge the Kingdom News to do just that, to fulfill its social role by giving objective discussions on this large subject and presentation? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u517	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much. There are several questions that might be considered as an answer to a question asked by the senator, and I'm going to choose to take the section in which the senator discussed the state media, just because tonight news came out to the people on the street that pointed out that I think in almost all cases, that they wanted further information and presentation on how the matter was being presented. In a talk earlier today, I mentioned that even scholars, which are often well - thought - out, may be called to get the surfaces we have been drawing by giving us the time we feel we need to ponder over all the stones on the subject. New information is coming up, and it often wants to be, so when you get involved in a matter, there are further questions. This is an example. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Gestein, the Sæmundsson of Sæmund, refers to the scholars he referred to. There is no doubt that they are very neutral and careful and obviously want their work to be the best.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u518	V.E.G. President. It's almost ex-whipped. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson noted that in his day an energy package and a two - pack of energy flowed through the General Assembly almost unafraid. Actually, it was a pack of two, if I remember correctly, which meant that we needed - or did not need to divide our energy companies into production and distribution. We introduced this package so Catholic that the pope blushed, and in itself we received a special award, Mr. President, from the European Union for making it so much. Therefore, I say if not for a moment that the members of the Central Party had stayed by just one brief period of energy out of a pack of three, he would also be through the Council, with no discussion, with all his members -- I'm not going to say anything - fines. The point is, when this type is introduced, there is no question about turning around, either halfway or when the milestone is reached, saying, "Hey, I wasn't going to say that. Ragnar Reykás doesn't live in the European Union and they don't listen to him there. I'd like to ask you what. In view of all the discussion that has been discussed in this matter, a senator may want to pause, examine the basis, and postpone the matter until the autumn.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u519	V.E.G. President. We should definitely postpone the package until autumn and even longer. In fact, at this point, I don't want to determine how long we should delay the third energy package. I even want to say that we should put him off for as long as necessary or until we have some common ground for which the people can accept. Hv. A senator discussed information from the son of Algmund Jónasson that a pack of energy and a two - pack of energy had gone through the council almost unafraid. I say for my part that we get reassigned to our committees, where we certainly get a very good, careful presentation on a subject, but it's often more complicated than that, so we just have time to put ourselves in all of them. Then we allow ourselves to listen to the warnings of the people outside. I especially want to thank the people who raised us to this particular matter. I think it's absolutely true that if we hadn't gotten involved with the facts and arguments, the matter might have gone through the council. Then people are surprised that we'd like to get some information on what follows, a pack of energy, four and even a pack of five. We want to be careful and that's what we're doing here. That's why we're discussing these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u520	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagle Daughter for the speech. The Senator got a lot of talk about the EEA deal, the deal we're facing, and what we've got out of it. This has been very successful during the years of that contract, largely because we haven't been putting much into it. There's never been a time when we've made good use of what's in the 102th. in the contract, sending a case back to the joint committee. But we've been discussing so much now that maybe it's time. It's also said that the EEA deal could be a little upset. I noticed that the senator mentioned in his speech whether the EEA contract would be rather upset if the energy package was approved. Then I would like to ask the senator if she can briefly answer what she has to say and ask her to argue. And then I'll ask you another question in my second answer. Actually, I see I have time for that. Speaking of wires - I'm going to correct that after we've been accused of misinformation over and over the past few years. What has been the most important fault of misinformation?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u521	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. To begin with: At first, we put a question mark to the warnings mentioned, and it was claimed that it was a total failure to claim that there was a misinformation. But then it came during the day in the conference hall to hear that the warnings were not as legal as it would be to have such a warning. Words like statements and press releases were cited, and I don't know what. It was the first thing. Then there's the next item, i.e. When we have claimed that there may be a potential for power to fail to have a foundation in the process. So I can link this into our idea that the best thing to do is to send a pack of energy to the joint EEA committee to put in a warning that is careful that they won't come back to us later on with due damages, as we seem to be looking up in Norway. They put eight warnings there, and it's not just that they didn't think, so they didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u522	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for that answer. I'd like to make up my other question about the EEA deal, that it could possibly upset if we agreed to the energy package. The senator's answer revealed that part of these alleged false reports was about the warnings over which there has been a great fog. They may not have been so legal. Of course, it has also been observed that they are one - sided, one - sided, and no such warning is held. It has proved true. It was revealed in the raw meat. In terms of agreements, both parties must agree that these warnings are in the agreement, which is not the case. Speaking of the induction, I also thought that last year, an introduction that became legal in 2015 regarding a job driver's course to maintain his job card was discussed. It was an EES induction. I remember asking the minister about it. It never meant Iceland because Iceland is not connected to other countries by border. This was just the case with countries that were connected with borders. [[The president calls.]] There was an induction that didn't apply to Iceland, but no one would object. I just thought of it here for the rest of my speaking class. [[The president calls.]] But I'd like to ask about this EEA deal, how to get upset if we accept the third energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u523	V.E.G. President. We can argue that if we deliver a pack of energy through three by now, without legally setting a warning at that location and at this point, i.e. to get the ESA or common EEA committees to sit down with EFTA countries to establish a common ground - i.e. that all people are on the same page, because we'd like to hold the EEA deal. We think he's quite nice. But that is the foundation, the timing, and the person to whom it is best to look to now. If we don't do so, there may be harm rates and various peoples may simply sue the Icelandic state for not being right. I think a little cloven of what? paritaprevir He Sigurður Páll Jónsson to remember this with a car driver's course because it was a matter that ran through the council without having enough criticism. I want to say it that way. We let something through that wasn't exactly right for us. But somehow we let it go. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u524	V.E.G. President. I would like to briefly review the time line of our discussion and have discussed the matter for a few minutes. In fact, the case came first to our generals just before Christmas break in the winter when it was due to be thrown into the Council, if I recall correctly, on the last meeting day before Christmas. We were just to swallow that the case, in its entire size, would be thrown into the council, as the old woman threw Jón's soul into the pelvis into the gold gate at the last minute ever before. This failed because it was strongly objected. For a while nothing happened with the case, unless I have suspected that the time between Christmas and April, or the end of March, when the case finally came up, was used to turn those members of the board who were not 100% sure that the matter was good. Then they came up with a warning. A few members of the Independence Party who were in doubt - I thought, for example, that was true. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The president never really convinced, but he gave it up. Hv. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon, Njáll Friðbertsson, and others came and testified, saying: "We were very uncertain, but then the minister of foreign affairs came with warning. Now this contract has belts and bracelets. I don't know which members would get to take the case through the VG party. Maybe it's been the best. The Minister of Foreign Affairs himself, I don't know. At any rate, left greens are now a powerful force in Iceland to the market of national energy resources. It's done quite well, I think, but I didn't expect it to happen. The third wheel, under the chariot, took it literally. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, that the advance party now has belts and bracelets, pants of taste, putting on tops of hair, and new shoes. All you need is a red clown's nose, that costume is perfect. The deal flew through there, too, after all. Then the matter was submitted. It was to be run through in exactly the same way as the first and second energy package, i.e. Pass it through the council without a discussion, almost without anyone knowing it, and certainly not informing the nation of its contents, not at all. Later, however, a group known as National Pockets and isolationists came to pass. That group met other isolationists and national polygraphs, such as Jónasson Ragnarsson and others of well - known ethnic polygamy. Then came protests into the Council of Gardens, a notorious national formulaist, with the Icelandic flag marking the tomatoes. From the national union of the bakers, who made anotation cake last year. National giants, all of it. From ASI, from the International Habitat Association. 70% of the comments on the subject were negative. Yet, the matter was to be forced through the council, preferably without the people knowing it. But it seems that, Mr. President, the Icelandic public is well organized, sober and is not offered at all. For those people, we have stood here for a little while, some nights, and objected to this synopsis and asked for it, and we still do that, that its payment will be postponed. [[The president calls.]] That is our heartfelt desire.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u525	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's euphoric speech that I used to think is a bit of ridicule, which is very good, and often gives you the advantage of giving attention when it is recommended. But, you know, all the fun comes with real shit. I remember it before Christmas when it was supposed to be put in some Christmas suit into the council, and we immediately got a bit upset. The Senator mentioned girdles and bracelets, taste pants, and so on, and that those agents who may have been, nothing perhaps, but definitely, suspicions about the introduction of the package changed his mind, as the senator came in. The date of the year and March, April, was used to dissuade men. The warnings are the materials of those belts and bracelets. That's clear to me. But I'd like to ask the senator, because I've realized that those who were suspicious of these things but now speak the package's language are rather breathless and rather frustrated if they warn us not to let them down. Could it be that this irritability among the above - mentioned members is because they are not really convinced themselves? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u526	Mr. President. Well, I can totally agree with that. I have testified to the highest degree. When the president delivered this matter in his day, he did not sound convincing. Not at all. He didn't sound convinced. The problem, however, is that men were lying down on some angry farm, including to finish the case before the 90th anniversary of the Independence Party - which I congratulate them - so they wouldn't have to take this package to the party. But then it came to pass, that they had to take the package to the feast. In fact, I haven't heard of feasting, whether the members of the Independence Party have met there, who are quite unhappy with this initiative of the party president and the Party, and who do not want to see this package in themselves. Because of what I purpose. A senator spoke of members who were frustrated and short - handed, that people are not as comfortable today when scholars have already told one another that the fronts, belts, and bracelets are not worth the call. The last time this morning, these models get a complete drop-off for a reputable lawyer in this town. It doesn't help much, like a bang. A senator knows, to wear a belt and shoulders if you have no pants. In this matter, the government parties and the rest of the body of the General Assembly are completely out of shape. So it didn't matter if they had a rope to pull up their pants, it doesn't mean anything when the pants are empty.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u527	President wants to decide what. Councilmen that when quoted in a town, do so by name.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u528	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's for it. Yes, it is. If the models are not worth a dime, as it has been shown, there is not much left to hold up your pants, as has been said here lately. Actually, it is quite clear in my mind what we've been saying all along, that the case has grown so that the matter should be delayed, the energy package should be turned away for now, sent back to the joint EEA committee, and presented in Article 102. The EEA Convention does not require anything unusual. He'll have pants held up there, and we'll be able to take him back to the induction or inspection when he does. I hope that the time that has gone into it, and maybe he'll still be something, will cause the government to see for himself and reexamine this policy of bringing in the package and going this way. It has been observed in speeches to the highest level. In the late autumn, a industrial minister said that there was nothing wrong with postponing the case until autumn.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u529	V.E.G. President. I am delighted to mention the name of Arnar Þór Jónsson, a district judge in Reykjavík, a great gentleman and lawyer. But I'm just about sure that if a case like this--now it's got the highest. Thus, a president who is now living for a lifetime of practicing and teaching law - would have run into his shores, when this body's interpretation was neglected, would have been thrown out of court immediately. That is exactly what the jurists, as the above - mentioned Arnar Þór Jónsson and others have claimed, that if there were a lawsuit that would come out of the introduction of this energy package, as it is now done, it would appear, as I said before, that the warnings made were not worth the paper. The case would end with a account that would be fatter than likely any account we've been given for a long time. We were prevented from getting the Icesave account at its time with a similar struggle as this one, by raising the population of the country, just as it has done in this case, and being 62% against this deal. Therefore it is my earnest hope and desire, once more, that the tribes of the governments may see themselves, and listen to the people on the street, and ask for the advancement of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u530	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I stopped in his speech, where there was a history in his speech that in this case, the left movement appeared to be ◯ green supply, VG, as is sometimes said in daily speech, as a leading force in the market of energy, as a driving force. One senator put it this way. This is a leading role in the market of energy. Mr. President. The policy expressed there on the grounds of the evasion is contrary to what can be called a social agreement in Iceland that the major energy companies, which includes the national energy system, are in public interest. The left movement in relation to what it was. A senator says, has taken the lead in breaking that national contract again. There's nothing less. As Pálsson's Ghoststone brings up the subject in a fistula at the television station Circle Road, with permission of presidents: In effect, the princely approval of this case is recognized as a prince's full involvement in the European Union. Counts 'em out. Senator that VG is not merely a leading force in the market of energy but in bringing us almost full involvement in the European Union? [[The president calls.]] And counting. A senator that this is in harmony with the basic policy of the party as it has been introduced?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u531	V.E.G. President. In 2009, during the development of the government, the left movement went forth to apply for full involvement in the European Union in some horse trade agreement with the United States. So this is absurd for the first time that VG has a prince's finger pale for little. There was a meeting at the East Field the other day with people who do not share the objections of this energy package, which was presented in the talk of one fine ex - man. A senator, the Ögmundur of Jónasson, is confident that he is no longer calling his old party the left - handed offer, but he calls it an offer in the motion of an ostensibly green. He said, "This class is neither left nor green anymore." This is a story of the conversion of the party in the matter. This may have sparked the fusion theory that I have presented, such as the cave. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson mentioned earlier. I believe that there has become some kind of anger with an independent party and left greens and instead of left greens taking the lead in the commercial market of energy in Iceland, this year the Independence Party builds up a Marxic health system in Iceland, denying its own business. Maybe it's an old-fashioned horse wedding, huh? Senator, that may well be the case. Buy a purchase.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u532	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's answer is to shed light on the story, although not far back in time. But first, what? A senator takes an active part, and I must do the same. I attended this meeting, and there was another speaker, who was highly esteemed, editor Styrmir Gunnarsson's son. It is hardly remembered that in a government crisis in 1979, when it was difficult to get a government together, he wrote about what he called historical reconciliation. The historical reconciliation was to consist of the initiation of the Independence Party and the VG, the Left Motion of Green Missions, the People's Alliance, working together in government cooperation. Now these companies, being changed, have gathered their hands. And about what? On the market of energy and taking steps into the European Union. That's the story, let me tell you. It is not an ambiguous speech that brings up such factors. I'm going to allow me to raise that question to the point. A senator would feel, as I asked, that in my first question, that a decision that includes, in effect, acknowledging the prince's full involvement in the European Union is built on and thereby a significant step toward the full European Community policy of the Independence Party and the forward Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u533	V.E.G. President. Now, the policy of the advance party in recent years is not quite clear. It is usually pale for three pieces of chairs as here are in front, even two. It's not quite the tip to row. What, though, a man who is amazed is the unprecedented permissiveness of the Independence Party at VG, the rise in taxes, and I don't know what. Hv. paritaprevir The Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson said at a meeting not long ago that today's independence party was actually the same group as the Conspiracy ten years ago. I'm starting to think that this was, like, a lot of things he says, more and more, absolutely right. But because of him. A senator mentioned Styrmir Gunnarsson, who is expected to be the living man, I would think, who knows the Independence Party best, and I'm talking about the Independence Party for the past 50 to 15,60 years, leaving behind himself in a newspaper article that this synonym was the greatest mistake in foreign affairs that had been made in the history of the party, if I recall correctly. It must go through members of Congress like the Supreme Court. A president when words such as those of a man like Styrmir Gunnarsson's son, who is likely one of the insides and most inmates in the Independence Party for 50 years. When such criticism comes, not just out of the air, but out - of - date, one must think.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u534	Mr. President. The discussion of the third energy package covers a wide range. The matter involves a potential conflict with the Council of the Republic of Iceland, No. 33/144. It involves our important interests in international cooperation, especially the European, below. It involves the nation's resources and their custody of them. Today, interesting news on this subject has been published, and I'm going to let myself do something very briefly. On the one hand, Governor Arnar Þór Jónsson, a highly respected and respected lawyer, makes the subject of a report published by the State Radio, quoted at the highest level. The prime minister of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, was hoping that a cable would never be placed to this land. The story says, with permission from the President: She says to all lawyers agree that a third energy package does not include the fix of a cable, that will never be done unless it is decided by the General. As a result, Arnar Þór Jónsson reacts at the community center, which in everyday speech is called Facebook. That's where he says, by permission of a president: ▪ I don't trust myself to speak for all lawyers, as the prime minister does here, to the news that follows the district Court's entry - ◯en thinks correctly and obliged to underline one point: At the time that this cable is financed (whether it is a foreign or a foreign company that does so), all of the representatives of Generalis will not be divided. This is because if the United States still tries to prevent the cord from being laid, it will be a legal offense against Iceland. The Icelandic state will obviously lose the language of energy, as shown by the Tetragrammaton on free flow. And the district judge continues, by permission of the President: ▪ This is something people would have had to discuss honestly (and detailed) in previous stages. Thus, economic costs and costs could have been discussed materially, at the cost/miss of sending electricity to other countries. In this discussion, the Icelandic statesmen would have at least More solid land under the feet than the prime minister has in this interview. Mr. President. This opinion of the district judge conflicts with what is said on page 35 of their quotations by Friðrik's Friðriksson Hirst and Stefánsson Már on page 2. They say, with President's permission: It should be noted that the third energy package places no obligation in Member States to establish an electrical exchange/base mechanisms across borders. But they also say, with President's permission: However, it must not be forgotten to reject the Energy Agency's application of an enterprise, such as the one currently prepared to provide such a sea cable - the company may turn to ESA on charges that could end with a contract break-up against Iceland. Such a situation could be difficult in Iceland. Mr. President. Is it possible to warn more than those words?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u535	V.E.G. President. I'm still looking for President as a respected lawyer because of the concept of a simple offense which I believe he explained to many of the young man, and I'm sure he'd have to explain to me. As far as I can see, the government of Iceland has a very committed crime in this case. She has a strong desire to go against the will of the majority of the nation. She has a strong desire to overlook all caution signs, not to hear words of caution spoken in the best minds. This is serious, Mr. President. Not paying attention to them is a serious matter. I've said this before in my discussion: Just pretend she doesn't listen to us, let it be. But that's not what it's all about. We are not asking this government to listen to us. We are asking this government and the administrative part to listen to the advisers of the party who are the most skilled in their report in Iceland. But we don't have much time. What, then, can be done but to continue to resist any efforts to prevent the firm violation of the government's will? Now I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Will he see what would go with it if we were judged in a contract violation because of the induction of the third energy package? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u536	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think this case is quite clear. On the one hand, the legal advisers of the government, which she called for her own work, the Second Year of Friðriksson Hirst and Stefán Már Stefánsson, have warned the government of the possibility of such a break-off, and that very, very clever. They will do this in the words on page 35, with the permission of a president: the Energy Institute of a company's application to be made -- the electronic transfer of the company will turn to ESA, which could end with a violation of the contract against Iceland. Such a situation could be difficult in Iceland. It's not as if these men are saying it in a legal opinion that the government's request that the government have high hopes that Iceland would win such a thing, another thing. Arnar Þór Jónsson makes this clear, as he says, by permission of the president: When this cable is financed, there will be no exchange for anything that will ever be taken care of. And you ask yourself, " Is it a responsible way of carrying out such a situation, especially in view of the fact that the amount of money on such a case would be very significant? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u537	Mr. President. If the government disappears, holds the case up, and passes through the council, it and the government, as well as its members, are taking on enormous responsibility. In the near future, she may not even be held accountable. It could be 10 years from now, 15 years. That is why, because this case has such an impact so far into the future, which it is our duty here to settle the case so that it is established on perfect legal grounds. There's only one way to turn down the energy package and send it into reconciliation with the European Commission, according to the 102rd. of the EEA Convention. That way - that has been said - carries political risks. This is where a foreign expert, very capable, was to scare us with his face. He said, "The European Union will probably be crazy if you do this. You owe loyalty to Norsens. I don't know for what, but okay, that was his opinion. Of course, we should not listen to this. We are naturally to build the situation this way, so to speak, through the council that it is as undisputed as possible. It's not today. And now I ask why. Senator: Is it not right to demand and to require the general public to insist that the case be delayed? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u538	Mr. President. I'm going to tell you that yesterday's news received from the London Times newspaper, which was newsed in the local media - the only news of the ocean cable being in sight, that this case has been prepared. Even if it is not already adjourned, the funding for that assignment is far off. What these jurists are saying, The Friðrik of the Árni and the Már in footnote 62 is: Yes, yes, the State government can say that it must be laid without a cable, but then it must be realized that a government fund could fall a huge sum of money because of treaties. This is the situation. This is what they describe, both the two of them, the Friðrik Árni and Már Monress and the District Court Arnar Þór Jónsson. You must recognize that position. We're talking about a project of 400 billion. Who would think that would be the standard for the State in such a case? We see that in the recent court of Supreme Court, an import company was sentenced to 3 billion because it was concluded that a contract break was due to meat import. Here we are talking about requirements, not scores, but hundreds of billions of dollars. Will humans continue in that course?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u539	Mr. President. That's exactly what I had planned to ask myself. A senator on a point he last mentioned, because now the pieces are coming in one by one, and we are working to sort them together in some way. I've believed it would help if the supporters of the case came to a game to explain their position, but there's nothing certain, it might just fall to confuse the picture, at least if you visit at the highest level. The minister of foreign affairs gives some indication of what might be expected. But in view of the fact that we're doing all this together, and there's a lot of things that we've been talking about since I last talked about the connection between the so-called meat and the energy package, I'd like to ask you why. A candidate in the comparison he made only at the end, perhaps not based on economic proportions, as well as in good health. The senator has already guessed, but in the legal context. Now, in the meat matter, it was claimed that we had an exception, a formal waiver, who made sure we didn't have to import unhappily, raw meat and unbound food for various reasons. First of all, since agricultural and marine practices did not depend on the EEA agreement, but also on the fact that this is an enormous interest in the pure, healthful production and has been picked up for something else. Despite the feeling that they have this clear warning, and not just a warning, but an exception, the government will fall in this way and say, "We just have to do what they say. " How does that measure? A senator compares the legal situation in the meat business and, on the other hand, what we watch as we push in with the energy package? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u540	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. It is naturally perfectly normal to compare these two matters together. True, it's been a while since I read a paper with a bill at the highest. Industrial Minister for Hagggage Disease, where history was as long as possible. A senator referred to a trace. It even appeared. in the effort to concentrate deeply on the European Commission, ESA, with persistent letters from the Management Board. Then, the case concludes, on the one hand, in the EFTA Court and on the other, by court of Supreme Court, which is a post-impliatory case based on the findings of the EFTA Court, where the damages were determined by which I mentioned 3 billion. Of course, more attention should be given to the history and source data that have proved to be in good custody in a study of the current language and in detail what was determined in this matter in the field of the joint committee and of what personal provisions were given. In fact, a highly respected lawyer, Stefán Stefánsson, observed that the judgment of the EFTA court was simply wrong. I'll let me bring it up in the middle of nowhere. But we could be in the same situation as Mexicans, who are faced with a requirement that a wall be built, and they should pay for it. We are in a similar situation. [[The president calls.]] There will be a transwarp cord requirement and through that lawsuit we would, at least, be required. Much of it has been paid.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u541	Mr. President. I thank you for a new, quite striking illustration. But as to the judgment, I agree with the attorneys who have claimed to have simply been wrong, not supported by law. However, you wonder if the European Union allows itself to interpret this law freely, or in this case the EFTA and ESA, as well as the driving. A senator who briefly traced, naturally acted very strongly on the case, would have to link it with how the progress would be if one felt that the package was not meeting the targets and objectives of the energy package. Although this is a big issue for us, the whole context of the European Union has little to do with it. It's a big deal for us, but very little in the context of the European Union. But they weren't ready to look through their fingers with it, another thing. However, energy issues are huge in the European Union, total priorities for the development of the Union and its aims to progressively reduce greenhouse gas emissions and connect the European electricity network. Then you can wonder, and I'll ask why. In view of this comparison, in view of a fairly small issue for the European Union, where we are addressed strongly, however, a very important matter of interest to the European Union: What is to be expected if a contract breakdown is formed, as has been strongly reasoned that this may be? Are you going to be as tough as in the meat business? [[The president calls.]] Or may this include something beyond what we have seen in the past?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u542	Mr. President. In the beginning, I want to know that in my case before now, I quoted from memory to comments I believe I have seen Professor emerius Stefánsson that he thinks he has been misjudged by the EFTA Court. I remember it this way, and I'll be corrected if I haven't handled correctly, but I wanted to state this. Carnivore, like coon. A senator strikingly highlights, for our uniqueness is so great in that matter and light. In fact, our uniqueness in energy is also great and light. Let's have a look. The unique thing about meat is that we have farms that are relatively healthy, at least compared to European farms that have suffered from any kind of plague and plague for centuries, but because of isolation, our stocks are not like that. Likewise, we have mastered the Campylobacter in poultry culture, and the use of drugs is much smaller. It's a special situation. Despite that unique position, the situation is carried on with harshness, even harshness. And it's just like what you're doing. A senator says it's a small matter for the European Union, a very small matter. But to energy there is a very important matter, a fundamental issue for the European Union. Is there anything else we can expect, including In view of that story, but that we will be fully successful in acting in harmony with the harshness shown and perhaps even more aggressive? I don't think we can expect anything else, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u543	Mr. President. It is becoming more and more clear just how unappreciative this matter is, and in reality it is only one way for the government sector in this matter; to postpone it, to put it aside, to review it better. After all that has been presented in the discussions that have taken place during the past few days and nights, it would be completely irresponsible to present the matter as it is now. I'm glad to see what I'm doing. The head of the State Department is here in the side room. She has said that all questions were answered on this subject. It would be interesting to get her to answer a question about the opinion of Arnar Þór Jónsson, a lawyer, and a local judge that appeared this morning. Good boy. A senator has said that all stones were rolled around. It would be interesting to hear her answer to what is said in the opinion of Eyjólfur's annual Ármannsson, a lawyer in Norway, who has published a very specific warning about the induction of the third energy package. It would also be fascinating to hear her answer to questions relating to the title letter and an interview that was held at the Second Year of Friðriksson Hirst, in the April 10, issue of Awake! All of this would be very interesting to hear, if that were so. A senator and president of the State Department would see fit to be here with us. As I said just before, I saw her in a side hall, holding in my simple and optimistic mind that she had come to put her weight on the scales to improve the discussion. Doesn't look like it's gonna happen this time. But I'll catch my chance the next time I see it. A senator uses and calls to bring up the discussion and to answer questions as well as the ones I presented earlier. Mr. President, I suppose, is there now a collection of signatures - or can I say a book of credits, because it's Icelandic? - i.e. A petition to the President of the Generals that he submits to this matter until the fall. Already, a few thousand people have already responded to that request. We sense that there is an increase in public weight, in effect, among the people on the street that appeared on the Kingdom News tonight. There is increased weight in the way people want the government and the government to listen to them. Now my political career isn't long, but I dare say that the politician who doesn't listen to the people of the country will either be short at work or will not reach the purpose of his mind. He will not be trusted if he does not listen to the people of the land. We'll surely see if this case is run through, which I truly hope will not be, that then the confidence of the people on the government will collapse and the confidence of the people on the EEA deal will fail, unfortunately. We don't want that. Therefore, I still ask the government to retract this case, take it off the program, store it to the fall, cover it better, consider it better, review the current opinion of lawyers, see if there is no advice to listen to the good advice of sending this matter to the joint EEA Committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u544	Mr. President. I'm gonna start by thanking you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to agree with his basic conclusion that this council decision is to be rejected. The decision to make a positive, positive, positive decision, which is made on the terms of the EEA agreement itself, and to present the case to the joint committee for reconciliation, with a view to receiving a valid release from implementing a law that is not relevant either, since we do not have electricalizing with Europe. Just like we had an exception in the natural gas component of this energy package. My question is, Is it a responsible task to handle the situation because of the indiscretions we see in it? As time allows, I'll refer to two or three places, in an interview with the Friðrik Árni Friðriksson Hirst, the National Court Act, which appeared on the Web site on April 10 of this year. He says, with President's permission: The EU's third energy package can be reasoned that there is more legal uncertainty in the way the government intends to implement the EU's third energy package than that the Council refused to accept the energy package. So does the President's permission: ▪ What legal uncertainty is involved in the process of the government, according to the Court's Friðrik Department, to rule out the possibility that the EFTA (EU) monitoring center is responsible for the appeal of negotiations to the EFTA Court on the grounds that Iceland should fully implement the third energy package in the national law. [[The president calls.]] This is how the interview will continue. There are many warnings that cannot be overlooked, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u545	Mr. President. This is exactly what I've been focusing mostly on tonight. The responsibility of the politicians who ignore warnings from the most skilled experts is very serious, and the responsibility of such politicians is great. When we started to discuss this matter, there was a rumor that some of whom had not been respected, the fine legal opinion in which a polygamy has been observed, but they decided to interpret in particular the opinion that has been given most and the most freely, consider it as a board, choose from the things that were best liked, and would fit their cause, but let go of other things, of course, that were unattainable. This has been pointed to many, many, many times. Now, after the discussions and discussions that have taken place here last few days and nights, the people of the country who had no presentation on the subject are becoming aware of the seriousness of the matter, how serious it is to continue to be so neglected. That is why, Mr. President, has come a long way, since the general president of the Generals is taking the motion off from the program and from its deadline until the autumn. That's what I think will be conditional for the next few days. [[The president calls.]] The public will rush behind that suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u546	Mr. President. This case is of the largest kind. It's about a command order. It's foreign stuff. It's about the nation's resources. To make decisions like that, you need to have a political authority for voters. That's what I'm talking about. A member of the council knew that any of the three administration classes placed this issue in the campaign, claiming that the third form of energy would be introduced, with the consequences we have discussed that he would have, and on the basis of reports and opinions produced by the members of the government itself? You ask yourself, " How far can it be possible to make decisions in the Bible with its voters, in political helplessness, in a political vacuum? ' I'm going to refer to the interview I referred to in the previous answer, an interview with the Friðrik Árni Friðriksson Hirst. It is on the Web site on April 10, 2000. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Asked if there are any precedents for taking the way the government intends to go, Friðrik doesn't recognize any examples of this. Mr. President. What kind of conduct is it going to agree with this case against the nation's will, in complete disproportionateness to its voters? Now, the latest news is that here people are willing to place sea cables and, as you can see, it comes to our share to finance the cable through damages that we would be doomed to pay.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-28-112.u547	Mr. President. Now I understand that it's like this is going on. But the point is that in all political groups, I think, there is more to this energy package being introduced. In fact, a poll taken a while ago was at the highest level. President, where men are eager to enter the EU's cold embrace, disagreement upstairs on accepting the energy package as they look. According to a recent poll, I keep it from early May or late April, there were 62% at this package. It's a big difference if the government is going to go against the majority of the nation's will, and I don't believe it until I take it. Of course, there will be disastrous consequences for these political parties, and I will not cry for it. But that's not what it's all about. This is far more serious than that. This case should not be a group of predominants, although it has been grouped predominantly at the Council - not of us. The people are to be heard, and they are to retract. It is to be stored until the autumn, and it is to be kept in mind.
