ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u1	The president considers an agreement that may last longer than the Senate allows.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u2	Borist has received a letter from the following hired advisers who are requested to provide written answers to queries: From social and child-reversary for the request of the application. 1002, of the responsibility for protecting children from harassment, from Jón Þór Ólafsson; from financial and economic secretary for the inquiry of the puzzle. 1287, of Icelandic enterprises'employment, of Oddsja G. Harðardóttir; of the Minister of Justice for the Information on the Article. 1148, with regard to religious and principles, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson, and on a deck. One hundred and seventy-five, of the chief of police in the capital area, to experts, from Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir's daughter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u3	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health and Social Affairs and Children's Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u4	A respectable president. Once again, it is up to us here at the legislature of the government's work against the citizens. A young mother in the Western Islands has been struggling that her baby, born with a split palate, will be restored to the services that law and order should in fact guarantee the child. I know this case came up in unprepared queries last September and did not stand at the will of the Supreme Court. A health minister to try to correct the problems that were clearly involved. If I understand that correctly, she issued a regulations that would ensure that children born with cleft palates would not be discriminated against against against others. It's clear that if the children also have a breach, they'll be reimbursed by a 95% of Iceland's Medical Insurance. You're surprised at what way Iceland's Medical Insurance is going to have to deal with the sources they're given. From this case, from the way I understand the Regulation, I direct my inquiry to the highest degree. Healthcare Minister: What's your plan? Healthcare Ministers do it to ensure that the Regulation is carried out? Or was the authority designed to question it, as it really is?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u5	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It is true that at the end of the year, a change in Regulation was made. It included that in the article on which the health insurance of Iceland is involved, due to necessary dentistry and dentistry, the problems to be met were specifically set aside. It seems that, because of what. A senator asks if the above regulations have not been clearly stated; there is no doubt that they have been not sufficiently clear. However, it is quite clear from my dealings with Iceland's health insurance and those that are dealing with the system, as it were, that the current assessment and decision to make payment is not clear enough to determine the experiences of the parents who are talking about, the parents of a child with a sharp mouth or a lip, who say that the process is dull and may even lead to unreasonable application payment. I've requested that the Ministry, together with Iceland's Medical Insurance, investigate this position, both the regulations and the implementation, be considered to review the process of assessment with the objective of providing these children with a better service. I think deeply about whether the arrangement that has been handled by a nation, whether it is justified or not, is the best arrangement. I think it should be discussed, at least Whether a broader professional team should consider such cases, allowing more views to be considered than exactly those discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u6	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The health minister for the answer. It is undisputed regarding such a birth defect for a small child and the burden to be born with a keen sense of intervention and the immediate cooperation with the child will most likely prevent a major and difficult operation during the later stages of development. So there's something to be stopped by, top dog. Healthcare Minister, simply adding it to the Regulation, making it absolutely certain that children born with this large defect will fall under the regulations? Is there any difficulty in making it clear also of the Regulation to heed the experts, both within the country as a foreign country, in this case especially that I am referring to here and now, i.e. That Iceland's health insurance takes at least Do you have a clear view of the professional values they are entitled to?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u7	Mr. President. Let's do this a little better. The change in time was specifically given so that it would also address the problems associated with soft palates. However, the question remains to be asked what constitutes a serious problem and whether there is a greater or less chance that something could become a serious problem. That is, in fact, the grey area, so to speak, regarding this compatibility with the principle of the text and the interpretation. Because of what? A senator would ask clearly whether it would be possible to define this group completely, one of the things I'm having to see if it's possible to do. Experience has shown us, at least The change in the Regulation for the past year, the need for careful action. We need to know that the lawgiver's will, and hence the minister, will be clearly stated in the Regulation and that the procedure will be in accordance with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u8	President. Recently, the government was presented with a pomp and sharp operation in support of the labour market agreements. In this regard, there is much to say about the administration of the government. Of course, in this it is something better than anything else. What beats me is that none of the measures planned for housing are actually fallen to improve tenants' status right now. When it comes to housing, people with low incomes who pay large amounts of money directly on their rent, there is nothing to meet the most need for help. There are some refinements and long - term action, but nothing to cope with the great problems facing many in the tenet now. The main weight of these measures is how to make it easier for even more people to buy a way to the housing market. In other words, each one is to be pushed into the same model because they are forced to commit their financial situation for many decades simply to have a safe roof over their head. Now, a key suggestion is that meetings will be wise ways and implementation to facilitate young ones and reduce first real estate purchases. Any loan with high credit rates and low payments during the first few years sounds like obvious poverty traps. What about when people want to grow? What if there is inflation and payments rise or the financial debt is reduced? Let us not forget the thousands of families who lost all their money in their homes in the inflation after a crash. Where will they find themselves in the next financial crisis? I fear that by this action we are not releasing people from the pressures and concerns of the Icelandic housing market but that we are further promoting the special policy of the Independence Party, where tenants are some extra size that don't matter. It's never been realistic to be tenant in Iceland for a long time. I'm going to the top. A minister who uses that fact to change and that this will be a real advantage in renting rent?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u9	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. The fact is that last year, it was not possible to achieve collective agreements because housing would require a big effort, and this would be the big thing that could bridge the gap between the labour market partners. Hence, the government went on to do a very busy job with a special group of campaigns, who had the responsibility of inspecting the rented market specifically and offering housing, building property. In there were the rural communities, inside were both sides of the workforce, public and general sector, and the activities community. This group produced 40 suggestions presented at the beginning of this year. All the suggestions are being taken today, and there are radical ideas that turn, including some. to continue building the tenure market, to strengthen the legal position of tenants on markets, to change rent law, etc., but also to provide greater opportunities and support for the thinking that the unions have put forth in building a Bkrad, a company that is above the Rock, and is intended, not for the most efficient, but for the above. All measures there made by the government aimed to strengthen the tenant position and tenant position. Then we offered suggestions to help those who do not wish to be rented to obtain their own housing. These are suggestions that were presented last week. When all these suggestions come together - they are in place and the apartment loan fund will follow up with the Department of Social Affairs - they will be raised in housing. In fact, unions have described a revolution in housing. I don't know what it's like. A senator here points out that we're giving money to tenants. We are giving each group a choice, the one who wants to be in a special market and the one who wants to be in a rented market. It's all gone well, and it's in good cooperation with the labour market partners.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u10	President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I agree that these measures are many good, but I worry that they don't match the minimum wage people who spend very much of their money to pay for housing and may not make ends meet. I'm worried about the lease. We could do so much more to help this group. We should not forget that the main theme of collective agreements was to improve the terms of those mentioned among us. We could raise housing improvements and expand their rights. We could raise child improvement and raise the limit more. We can actually meet the group that needs help, but this must be a special goal of action, which I don't seem to be, unfortunately. I am concerned about how these measures in housing will affect the rent. When we put too much emphasis on buying our own house, except perhaps the ones mentioned among us, I would wonder and ask for the highest. Minister: Will this increase demand and reduce the lease? Has there been any consideration of how these measures will affect renting? [[The president calls.]] Was there a particular look at the effects of existing housing measures?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u11	A respectable president. I agree with what. Councilman, our actions should especially focus on the lowest income group. That is why most of the government's package provided, not just for housing, but also for the development of child improvement and for the rise of limitation, aims toward the lowest income group. As a result, the union unions in this country agreeing that the government package had made a big difference in bridgeing the gap between the employment union and the trade union. What we're doing with the proposals presented in the campaign group and, to a large extent, our rent market is strengthening the status of the people there, continuing the structure of the overall apartment system, putting capitals into it, increasing the number of apartments. The suggestions are for the most efficient group, so I say what. A senator I think it's the only way to appreciate the proposals of the government, so it's not best for the most lucrative groups. The unions agree entirely with the government that these are very good suggestions and aim first and last to the most efficient groups of Icelandic society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u12	I'm talking about the lease...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u13	Mr. President. I'd like to talk to the highest. Health Minister on matters relating to the contract status of an enterprise's enterprise on welfare services. I specifically ask about that position now because a few days ago, the main meeting of the organization, which was challenged by a health minister, concluded that there would be a full force already in the negotiations between health insurance and aging institutions for a new frame deal with the homes. This agreement, which went into effect in 2016, ran out through the last year. It's not gathered in negotiations. The members of a welfare agency, which are nonprofit enterprises, but which are the nature of the situation because of the lack of interest in bringing losses, require that the service be paid fair, normal, and benefits, and want a clear and costly description. At the same time, the organization wants this to be done by third parties and to declare the greatest dissatisfaction with the government's policy in these issues. A good monitoring of the activities of these enterprises and institutions is provided by the national surgeon, who makes requirements that are not necessarily within the budget available. I'd like to ask a minister about the situation, about what plan is going on, as well as why and when are we going to fulfill what is stated in the Government Treaty to consider the matter of strengthening the nursing grounds. During the two budget years established by the government, the base of business has been reduced instead of strengthening it. There are no signs in the financial program to strengthen him in the near future. There is no contract, the action is contrary to promises, and uncertainty lies ahead. A big question is asked, but the answer is important.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u14	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's query is very important because it is a national service service that is granted and there are an enormous number of people who are involved in this contract in the negotiations now conducted at Iceland's Medical Insurance. I've had a meeting with the head of Medical Insurance last night, and according to my records, negotiations have been held during the past few weeks on the issues under which agreements have been held. The information has been called, and I'm aware of the viewpoints. A senator mentions. It is the organization's wish to bring even outside or third party to the table in an effort to bring these views together. Legally, Iceland's health insurance has a government agreement with health care hosts and this service as well. That means it's a project on the health insurance table of Iceland. I share that opinion with you. A senator, of course, that it is time to make a decision in these contracts. I will also do the same, and I have indeed mentioned it both in the chamber, and at the court. The financier, that there is a need to ensure financial wealth and access between 2023 and 2024 in a financial programme where we are, in fact, still planning a great deal of structure, but there are no documents that are not guaranteed. At the same time, we need to ensure that there is an adequate flexibility in the system, that we can have both a nursing room and a day's choice because there is an ever greater need for flexibility. I'm informed from day to day on the status of these discussions, I've been assured that Iceland's Medical Insurance is in this negotiation and is fully trusted by the Minister of the Dags to continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u15	Thanks for the answer. I'd also like to remind you, and it's awful to have to remind you, that here in this hall, the General Assembly approved an extra budget to exactly these institutions, within the company of welfare services, up to 276 million last year. This money has not paid off, and the answer health insurance to a petition is: The contract does not exist. It's not working. I would like to do this in the second round just to mention that although the community of welfare services is underneath right now, the fact is, according to the health authorities'response to my inquiry. Some work was done after 12 contracts had expired, and this year 34 contracts are over. So there is a great deal of work to be done. I wondered about this number of contracts, large and small, that are upset and that are a business partner of independent experts, organizations, and particularly the safety of caregivers, patients and others: Is all of this under some kind of global health-requisition on health care? [[The president calls.]] I also draw attention to the fact that in the Constitution of the government for the winter, there was a law on health insurance contracts. [[The president calls.]] It's been called back. [[The president calls.]] Is this all part of a major issue, and will all these contracts wait for the answer to be found at the health minister's office? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u16	The president asks for time limits.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u17	A respectable president. The answer is: No, this is not part of one of the overall revisions except in that respect, as well as in the other. A senator knows that we are laying lines for the future regarding the purchase of medical care in a new health policy. Then we expect the State to be more enlightened and there is a clearer willingness in the contracts to do exactly what it is doing to buy, what it costs, and then how the results are measured according to the effectiveness, safety, and quality of the agreements. There's something to do. Because of what? A senator says some contracts are upset, as it puts it, i.e. which are available and have been working on and have a lot of work ahead of time, so there are more than 200 contracts to buy health care, so you can expect that at any time point, in any way at any point, there will be negotiations with some health care provider. Hv. A senator asked about other matters, but now the time is over, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u18	Mr. President. At the Council of legislatures in 2016-2017, a then U.S. senator, the Svandís of Sivís Svavarsdóttir, was asked by the current U.S. Marshal. Healthcare secretary for the medicine Spinraza. The request I would like to make now reads, with the permission of a president: Will this medicine be effective for Spinraza, a single agent for the neurodegenerative disease known as SM, available to those it needs here? I'd like to add this request and ask you about two other medicines that are useful or that have eased the suffering of those who suffer from MND. These are the medicines Radicava, or edaravone, and the second medicine is called Copper-ATSM, by permission of a president. These medicines are both in an experimental phase. The head of the MND society has called for patients to use these medications, as he puts it themselves, that they not only sit by and wait for their lives to end but they want to fight and go, because MND is deadly. I recall that 50% of those he gets are dead within two years of diagnosis. This is a 60-man group in MND case, of which about 30 die each year. The incidence is such that it is approximately 60 people at any given time. The SMA group is smaller, few individuals. The drugs are expensive. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the present question. A health minister who is now in charge of these matters: Will she put it into practice that the drugs I have been asked here will be made available here to meet this group of patients?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. There are certain rules and procedures involved in the recording of new medicines and decisions. In each case, the composite decision is made by the specialist and then by the Committee of the Medicinal Products. That's the way it has to be. This cannot be so, and it should not be that the minister of the party is involved in the administration of medication to individuals. That would be a very strange arrangement. I'm not the spokeswoman that we change the arrangement so that a minister will answer for it in a question period that some individual should receive a drug. We have professionals to do, and that's the kind of community we want. On the other hand, there are often extremely complex questions. They are subject to a professional assessment of the health issues involved. They are also about the safety of patients. They focus on the safeness of the medicinal product and have been tested in ways that happen and walk around us in the countries where we would like to compare ourselves. We also want to, and that, of course, is the basic tone of our pharmaceutical policy, to ensure the availability of the public in Iceland to the best possible medication at any given time, so there is some single level that needs to be followed in these matters. It is my opinion that the most likely thing is that this delicate group of subjects has been the work of experts and is based on professional judgements. What is really our mission is to develop a professional feature that has the data and quality needed to make this decision and then the Generals to provide funds for their projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u20	Mr. President. To make it clear, I wasn't asking the highest. Minister to prescribe medication. I have information from the Institute of Medicine and elsewhere that shows how these matters are handled and the minister himself did well. It'll even come. ... untila so - called "gasphon," by permission of the president, this is not my but, rather, my message, are medicines used to treat rare diseases that have certain priorities in the registration authorities, often without having to be fully investigated. I believe the three drugs I now asked about are right there. I know this is a common decision by a specialist treating the individual. On the other hand, I am courting a minister that allows for financial gain, since these are expensive drugs, so that the very few people can live as well as possible when they are dosed. I think so, and I know a minister would agree that we can't lay a cent on human life. [[The president calls.]] What I'm asking a minister to do and directly to her is that she will secure the funding. I know she'll be supported in this room to get those medications in use.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u21	A respectable president. As noted in the second question, why? A senator is referring to drugs that are designed to be unproved but that want certain groups or individuals to enjoy the doubt, as it were - a big step to take. I think it would be beneficial to ask a written inquiry about this because this is a matter of fundamental thinking on how we take new drugs. We have not been the opinion in Iceland that a new drug was justified without full investigation, as this would mean that we could take a risk on health of individuals, because of the risk of side effects and some of those not fully studied. These are big questions, moral and social. Thank you. A senator for taking up this discussion here, this is one of the big questions we need to discuss in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u22	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Prime Minister for having a word with me today. The subject I would like to follow up on the United Nations agreement on the rights of disabled people and perhaps especially on the optional supplement that comes with that contract. It's like the highest. The prime minister is aware of the contract himself validated by Iceland in September 2016. When the Parliamentary decree was submitted to the secretary of state for approval, the person here proposed the adjustment proposal to ensure that the optional addition of the contract would also be validated. Is it not bad to say that at the council there was a footing and difficulty, and after any other time in the side halls, the result was to propose a change in the motion that stated that the Council concluded that a decision addition to the contract would also be validated by the end of 2017 and that it was approved by a single person. In addition, there is an increase in costs for individuals and groups who feel that the Icelandic government has not granted them the rights of the contract, and they have in vain used the resources they have under Icelandic law and political and judicial systems to achieve what they feel they have the right to do according to the contract. The United Nations Monitoring Committee with the Convention can request information from state to state and direct recommendations to them do not comply. By validating the selected appendix, it will be a more effective means of enforcing the agreements, the legal security of disabled persons more and more protected by their human rights, and it seems that many do not support it. V.E.G. President. As it is April 2019 C.E., the importance of this selection has not yet been validated. That's why I'm asking the highest. The prime minister is her attitude toward this optional appendix and development, especially in the light of an amazing reply by a former justice minister to a request on the matter here at the Assembly Hall of Monday, February 18. which was served at the head of the river. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u23	Mr. President. I want to thank you first. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson's son for coming up here and setting up an important subject. It is now that we were both doing our job when this proposal was accepted, as I did. I well remember the proposal that started work to be completed validating the optional book. Since then, it has happened, as it were. A senator knows as well as I do, that the anticipated election has prevented this work from being completed at the time agreed by the Council. I expect, if I had been here in the hall, that I paid the proposal my vote, so I would have, at least, done it. Of course, I think this is an important matter. I have expressed myself in the past that it is important to complete the validation of this optional book, which will give you the legal course. A senator did so well here. There's nothing I can say but the fact that I take the sharpening step. A senator who will discuss the matter with the Supreme Court. Minister of Justice who is expected to handle this case according to a plot of action. The will of the Generalis lies in the motion. It is very important for a member of the council to mention it, and it is very important that this will be the proper place for it to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u24	President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for a good answer. I'm glad to hear that she agrees with me in these matters. But it's incredibly annoying here at the council to submit a pact proposal that everyone approves of, and then it's actually just thrown into the trash. But since I know that the chest is the best. The prime minister knocks a heart out of fine gold. I want to use this opportunity to encourage it and sharpen it in order to support the synopsis that is held at the council, and it was submitted in September last year under the leadership of the council. paritaprevir Ágúst, son of Ólafur Ágústsson, to establish the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people at this spring convention, I'm just going to be so steep. And the valid appendix also shows that we care about this group of people. In Iceland, this social group, disability, and disability in general have endured prejudice, discrimination, mental and physical violence, and neglect. It's time to end. It's long ago that we take it seriously. I believe that the highest. The prime minister agrees with me on this. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u25	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is far too warm to me. I want to tell him it's not so good, but on the other hand, I agree with him... thank you. [[This is my experience.]] But I agree with what. A senator that this is an important matter, and I am aware that I am working to report to the United Nations on the basis of the assessment of the land's situation. It's important to take care of these matters with force, and I think that not only the one standing here but the whole government will agree on that. I know the suggestion. paritaprevir Similarly, the Ágúst Ólafur, son of Ágústsson, is important for us to consider it at the General Assembly. You see, I think we all agree on that goal. I've recollected it a bit, and I can better remember now in a later answer to a suggestion. A senator who came to the end of the council and then manifests a firm will of the council. It's not good when a number of projects and frequent elections cause this kind of interpretation to fall into a drawer and be forgotten. I don't want that to happen, so I want to take advantage of the opportunity in the end and thank you. A senator for impressing us on the matter, which I believe the Council may agree on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u26	Meeting arrangements are made for the discussion and are expected to last for about two hours. Prime Minister has 12 minutes to history and three minutes to the end of the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u27	Mr. President. Hv. Congress officials specifically requested, and a normal government report to the agreements signed last week. Also, questions related to reevaluation of financial programmes and changes were addressed to me in terms of collective agreements and in terms of economic prospects in the general population. I'm going to try to cover both in the few minutes I've been dosed. First, I want to say that the government's approach to the signed agreements, and we call biographies, of course, did not fall out of the sky. It did not exist in one day for negotiation. It was my goal and ambition and the government to promote the communication that governments have at any given time with the labour market members. I believe that we can learn much from our neighboring countries in these regions, and it has also been my goal to form these communications in a so - called national economy, which has long been discussed between the government and the labour market, where people sit together with the state and rural society and the Secret Bank, and review the relevant issues to ensure economic stability and social stability. In fact, these matters must always come together in my mind. The government's declaration on these agreements reflects this objective, mainly the result of the total we've had with both the public and the public labour market representatives, the job drivers and the local community in our 16 months regularly in the Ministry. There are some major operations I will now run over. As noted, in a government contract, a tax reduction of 1% in the income taxation system would have to be undertaken during the term. The workforce's members and especially the labor movement have brought up a thorough criticism of the tax system and have suggested that the tax system has developed in recent years because the upper and lower limits in the tax system have not followed the same indicator, i.e. the upper limit of pay date and the lower limit of consumption. Likewise, the labor movement has emphasized the growth of the child - welfare system and other factors. Therefore, as early as New Year's Eve, the boundaries of the income tax system were matched with large - scale child benefits, resulting in an increase of 2,200 rights to them and increases. In our declaration, we now go further, and we contribute tax returns to the three - step tax system of a tax system in the spirit of someone else in the North, with a new low - income step, which means that the tax decline offered in a government contract is most useful to the incomeiers. We also contribute to new tax criteria, which are based on consumer science, plus production, and to some extent, the ideologies are reflected in the collective agreements, which are seen on the economisaries, the percentage gains, and, third, a reference to human economic growth, which are new to human labour agreements in Iceland. The view behind these changes in the tax system is that they are most useful to the incomeiest and to the righteous tax system. Secondly, I'd like to mention the prolongation of your birthworm. This is a huge biographer, and a decision on this was made in a government contract, but its basis is established and my conviction that this is an enormously important operation, e.g. due to the database that the government opened - we think it was earlier this year - the history of income.is, which allows to re-examine the development of measures made from real tax returns and given terms through child damages and housing support. There the development of different groups has been very different, and we need to look at young children, especially single parents. That is why we put on prolongation of orclofs, which goes perfectly with one of the motions shown in the recent report of Kolbeinn Francis Stefánsson, a post collapse of the child's life cycle in Iceland. In fact, this assessment only reaches 2016, but one of its proposed factors, which are a very important procedure to improve the rate of children in Iceland, is an extension of the birthworm and a bridge of the care gap, which is often the most stressful time in young people's lives, adding worry about survival and uncertainty about where a person can put his child in a good place. Likewise, there is an increase in child - rearing, which exactly rhymes with the need to live more fully in the form of low - income younger ones. Housekeeping is the issue that both labor and employment drivers agreed to be one of the biggest issues involved in these collective contracts. People's standard of living is not just their credits in their pockets and the pay layer; it depends, especially on how much people spend in housing. What the government has done in preparation for this declaration is two; it was set up by a special campaign group, which went over the housing market in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Social Ministry, with the arrival of fellow rural, employment, and labor movements. Their proposals were presented a number of times and aims to build the social housing system, to increase general apartment planning, to promote rent protection and rights by tenants, such as the social and child - care minister came in earlier, but also to explain more carefully the order of construction, and to make things easier, and to have more in one place than it has been. However, the suggestions for working as a member of the Department of Social Affairs and Homing, which are suggestions for aiding young and less - income people, are available to enter the holding market. So these are two types of action. It is suggested a number of measures, and some of these have been made by the government. Much of the so - called share loans. In effect, we look to the model of our so - called personal loans rather than to the start loans where we are based on a Norwegian role model. Ideas are similar, however, between these loans and are about the ability of young people to borrow at special markets, e.g. through an apartment loan fund, which, in turn, becomes a sharer of the property, and later gets this money back. I'd like to mention, in particular, the pension business that was big and, of course, related to the housing. There are many factors. I'm not going to count them all, but I'd like to mention here that I feel very important that there will be an active conversation between the government and the labour market bodies on the rise in the pensioning age. This is something that we've been discussing at the General Assembly several times since I came in here and was almost approved in 2016 and postponed. I think we need to go into this discussion because at least... I get quite a few things from people who actually want to work longer. I think we need to go to this conversation with the goal that people can do it, but we work out that the retirement is flexible. Then there is the special property that the idea is that people can use for loans. There we put a special incentive to reduce the value of insurance, where we suggest that it can be applied to a head seat more secure than a head count on the off loans of unsecured loans. It has to do with the insurance policy itself, but several measures are proposed by the government's declaration, e.g. Unchecking a 40 - year - assured loan to take progressive steps in winding down the insurance policy. However, it requires counter measures, and that is why we contribute to the share loans, e.g. so that poor people are entitled to loans other than these long - term price insurance loans, which have been their only way into the possession market. I'm going to be dealing with social subsidies at the end of the day because I'm going to discuss the effects on financial programmes. Of course, it is a matter of time and effort. A social and child-friendly minister set up a team with everyone coming in, and the plan is to handle the issues that are not due in a healthy labour market. I am very happy for the great union between labor movements and the network of industry on the need to do something about this. We're already seeing at the council primes related to this package of measures. In particular, I would like to mention the bill of travel, industrial and innovation, of action against social security, child-friendly bill, of improved tenant rights. Then there was a special question about how the collective agreements would affect financial plans. The financial impact of many of the projects that are part of this declaration in financial programmes, e.g. magazines, increasing growth in general apartments and other projects. In fact, it has been criticized that the government has been showing off the cards, but I just have to say, fine associates here at the Council, that I'm gonna blow them off as I think it's about old-fashioned how governments come up with a top hat at the end and pull something out of it. I think we're just going into a different kind of practice, since we're working at the good conversation of this person, where it doesn't matter whether something is kept a secret until the last minute or not. I think it's just over. Now we're going into another kind of class of this conversation, and I think we should just agree on that. However, it is clear that not all actions are included in this program, e.g. in terms of the effects of the commercial taxation changes, which have been expected to be greater than previously, as well as to increase the decline in the child-replacement system. However, costs are available, and it is probably necessary to make the budgetary committee aware before financial planning will meet the costs of these changes. However, I was asked about the impact of a reevaluation program due to the failure of the WOW airline. It is clear that, after bankruptcy, the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs has worked on the potential economic impact on public finances. As noted, the first time in the financial program is an abnormal forecast, but there is also the possibility that public funds will not be affected permanently because of the failure of WOW and the failure of a hairy family. This effect will not be available until the national economy has been reviewed in its entirety, although the scope of these changes has been clearly determined. Iceland's Organization has begun and will over the next few weeks review national interest since February. However, in the case of the work in payment of a financial programme, and in view of the changes that have taken place over the last two weeks, it is scheduled to review the Economic Standards Nationalitation Programme, which will be the basis for a reevaluation of financial programmes, sooner or soon at the beginning of May. [[The president calls.]] However, it is quite clear, as we have seen, that part of the budget is expected in the government's declaration of collective agreements, as well as expected by a certain form of cooling due to a reduction in tourists. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u28	Mr. President. First, I'd like to congratulate the labour market on the collective agreements. I hope there's a successful outcome in the coming contracts. The government merits its contribution to the so - called biographies at about 100 billion dollars. in the target period in November 2022. [[80 billion.]] - 80 billion, says the highest. Prime Minister, but whatever. Much of this money is already in a financial program. Thus, this presentation of the government was kind of virtual, and it was a failure. Thus, these measures have not been directly addressed to these specific agreements. What in this agreement has to be answered is not already part of the financial agenda. What will it do to finance a government fund, and how will it be paid? I'd like to move on to the premises next time. Undeniably, the support of the house - to - house arrangement raises many questions. The cost of this operation is not stated, and the matter has not been discussed in a financial committee. The budget is to contribute its own money to the public's apartment purchases. There will be no payments and ten years of growth. This is an open check from the government, which no one knows the consequences. All the assessments of this operation are missing, and the output is not yet available. Is the idea that the government fund is going to share in the number of apartments? According to a financial programme, all the bills should be costed. It has not been done, and there are no numbers in these subjects. I can't quite figure out the government's financial regime. As it were, financial programs are being challenged, as it were, to which the minister of finance is so pleased. The budget is to be one of the main administrations of the State. How do we plan to land this planned operation on housing? The fact that the state will start making its own money, almost given for ten years, will increase the demand for housing and then raise the price. What about those who cannot access this system? Aren't they being taken away? This will create a problem for those outside, and it is, in fact, disguised taxation. They will have to pay higher shelter prices. Has the Ministry been investigating what price of housing will contribute to this operation? This is a procedure that is directly involved in the market and can easily create a problem. I expect, as a result of contracts being taken care of by everyone in the labour market, that the government then fulfills the promise to correct the interests of older citizens. V.E.G. The prime minister here mentioned only WOW's airline and the failure of a person who set a good edge in the matter of conversation and had many negative effects on the economy. A financial minister was asked that the day that the Society went bankrupt, in Castlight, whether the government had slept on the watch. He said no. However, there is evidence to suggest that a minister's answer is wrong, and the Group of Transport should have set a business limit during the past year that could have placed it in the wind or reduced the current severe impact of the landing. A special discussion was held here at the General Assembly. In the fall of the state of the Icelandic international airlines and the surveillance role of the Grouping Agency. The occasion was particularly worried about the WOW airline business. In my prehistoric speech at the General Assembly, I even traced it. WOW's poor personal position, but last June the financial sum was down to 4.5%, which is very low and shows that the company had little or no money to keep the business going. In addition, the company had not returned annual bills. Under these circumstances, a warning light was to be triggered by the Rapporteur, a U.S.A., who was not to sit by. Airship is systematicly important, as we know in our economy. During the conference at the General Assembly, I asked the secretary of transportation specifically whether the airlines had been tested for stress. The minister did not answer the question, so it is likely that it was not. It also attracts attention, the huge collection of debt that has taken place with Istavia and the society in terms of landing costs of 2 billion. Mr. President. I don't think the government has kept itself under observation of the WOW Society and there would have been a way of preventing at least These severe landings, which have now had far - reaching effects. The middle class will continue in this discussion as follows, and I expect it to be perfunctory.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u29	Mr. President. Just as many other people in the United States have rejoiced that contracts have reached work markets and lines, although they will still negotiate with large classes of state and community, especially large classes that care for and education. In fact, the agreements do not include groups of elderly ones who have to rely on their pensions, which are incompetent and desperate, which now shrink back. Or it may be noted that students do not get a higher basic advance. There will continue to be child benefits far below the averages. Still, in the administrations it seems that child - welfare is more than just a reasonable way to lose weight with family members. As we know, money will continue to become more expensive than interest, another word for the price of money. Prosperation is on the way to disappear. In the distance, we hear a drop of inflation, which is part of growth growth growth and failure of collective agreements. It can continue to be counted, but it is of course a pleasure to be able to negotiate and that the government has been managed to contribute more to improving the general terms of this country, e.g. with long-term timely plans for improving housing markets, hopefully to become reality, plans to finally deal with the social subsidies criminal activities of the labour market, changes in tax systems that hopefully become a benefit to tax-old folk, and prolonging the birthworm, which is important and good progress. We will yet see how this action will affect the lives and benefits of the people of the land as the dust goes on, when the dust sits down, and the daily life takes place after the celebration. It has to be seen, but it is worth remembering that these changes do not interfere with the economic systems that have increased dissatisfaction in society for years. They don't change the property division that's so great in Iceland. They do not address the root of the problem of the Crown, so dear to the government class, but because a small group of rich people can shave money while the common people may be affected by its appeals as politicians are so fond of and teach them life - threatening problems with economic management. The use of the crown, Mr. President, is the actual lifetime document agreement in Iceland. As I've been talking about, the big movie is still the same. However, we do know that there is one thing that is not unchanged, and that is a financial plan. Its economic factors were even changed before she was discussed at the General Assembly, and today this program is like any other religious book that some hold in death. It is important to face up to it and give up the Orthodox system. The Ministry for cut-offs of collective agreements is unfair and can interfere with important activities in the future if carried out harshly. As matters are arranged, the financial laws on the hands of the European Commission and the legislatures are overreached to make decisions on how to inject where this may be necessary. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has said that if there is a delay in economic growth, it will be managed by cutting down the spending side. Here, the economics of the Independence Party are alive, that the State increases its expenses in goods and draws together in famines during experience and all better economics teaches that this is to be the opposite, that the state is holding its hands in gooder but more money when the valley is hard to reduce fluctuations and lightens with people. It is the economics of rich people who view government spending as a sort of luxury that can be allowed when everything is calm and must be cut down when the valley is hard. This philosophy has its place. A respectable president. In the United States, we agree with financial advisers when it says in their review of financial plans that changing criteria require response. The premise is certainly changed: Humping failure, the decrease in tourists, the failure of airlines, the shadow of unemployment, the high cost of government contracts. Mr. President. In Christianity under the glacier, Halldór Laxness John Primus says: "He who does not live in fiction does not survive here on earth. " It seems to me that it's the highest. The government may have known. to take those words literally because Laxness was here talking about good fiction and at least not a financial plan. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u30	Mr. President. It is always possible to debate the role of government power or public people when it comes to collective labour agreements. I am one of those who, more often than not, have criticized the government's entrance to collective agreements or rather, rather, told the labour market party, the labour market organization, and the remuneration organisation for making the requirement to build agreements on what the government can do at any time, to agree to facilitate labour agreements. I have argued that it is being built up by a certain sense of irresponsibility in the labour market. It is their job to negotiate the purchase and the terms of a general labour market, thereby laying the lines when it comes to a pay convention in the country. On the other hand, the role of the government and the government is particularly to ensure a healthy economy, to ensure stability for jobs, and, above all, forethought in all plays so that negotiations can be made in the long term, whether in terms of purchase and cost or other agreements. It is clear, however, that the government can do things, and it may not be unusual that the workers of the employment market will point to the government and point to the local communities and say, "You may now have to come into this picture only by relaxing a little bit, allowing us to achieve contracts that are based on the future of us all. " It has to be said, as it is, that once these biographies are passed, they have achieved this goal. They are based on increasing pay, especially low income groups, increasing flexibility in reducing working hours, reducing taxes, and primarily on less income income. As a result, less interest is being cleared up, and home and business will all benefit from doing so. For the person here, it has to be admitted that my heart has only struck faster and more rhythms during the last few weeks when I have sensed that the remuneration organization has emphasized the importance of reducing taxes, especially on the less income, since we have a partnership. It is also a joy to see that the presence of the government of these collective agreements is based on the emphasis on living in the interests of family members, especially children. Child damages will be increased, decreased limits increased, birthworm increased to 12 months. This is going to mean a lot to children. That's exactly why I'm so happy, and as I've said so many times over here, we need to consider better in this room that everything we do, all the decisions we make, whether in taxes, in transportation, in the medical or educational systems, in fact, we should always keep in mind, and ask ourselves, " What are the benefits of our families in this country, and especially children's families of what we're doing? ' Recording of the new lowest level of income taxation reduces taxes. Although there is a different way out than I've talked about, which is a gradual personal discount, it is a huge step in progress, with immense importance for low - paying people, and the importance of older citizens is immensely high, and it will be important for young people, especially young children, much when starting a new lower income tax level. Although there are various issues to be disputed over and over the suggestions available on housing matters, they must be viewed as a whole. Of course, it bothers me that we are taking our dream, perhaps, a step toward banning equal payment loans to 40 years of age because it may prevent people who want to make their dream come true but who do not have a lot of money to attack an apartment market, but we may be able to figure it out. Of course, the happiest thing to do is to take a huge step in building special policy, making it easier for people to get their own apartment, providing clearance to use 3.5% of the specified property, using the overall savings to purchase apartments at first, and also extending the right of people who have apartments to use their special property money to cover apartment loans is absolutely important. As a whole, I think it may be safe to say that only these actions are one of the biggest operations the government has ever undertaken to build by property production in Iceland. Only this point should cause us all to rejoice. It is also a joy to see that in these collective agreements, the rewards of success are guaranteed. Economic growth that will occur in the years to come will bring much to the United States of Iceland. What a joy it is when free agreements are reached to integrate the interests of employees and employers and the government and, in fact, the whole public system on how the Icelandic economy works! To promote future growth has become a common debate for employers and employees. Good economic growth will ensure a better standard of living, and so it will be that in the best of our success, Icelandic employees will share their share.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u31	A respectable president. At first, I'd like to congratulate the workforce on finding out what appears to be a good deal, a contract where there are new things like economic growth and short work hours. At the same time, the contract has an interesting challenge for governments, such as reducing growth and minimising inflation at the same time. It is their goal, for example, to keep the inflation under 2.5%, but the main tool the National Bank has to do with the growth of the bank in business with other financial companies. The late bank maintains inflation by increasing growth. Clearly, then, the challenge of low growth and low inflation is not in the hands of the Federal government. What can the government do to reduce growth and reduce inflation? Global growth is very low, so the project is clearly possible. At the same time, however, almost 4% of inflation is expected in the near future. It's way beyond the Federal Penitentiary Center, and if you're going to use anti-inflammatory machines, you'd have to expect a raise. However, this is not to be expected, for it violates government aims to reduce growth. Thus, governments have to do something, and in the decades Iceland has struggled with inflation, no lasting solution has ever been found. In the present period of long - term low inflation, when it is again inflation, when stories of the underlying pressures on the rise in prices due to collective agreements are suddenly resolved. The solution, however, is not found in a financial program that is now discussed in the committees of the council. So the solution must be an additional one, and I look forward to hearing more about it, for it must have some effect on financial and financial policies, if that is the case. It is particularly about the impact of increase in pay in a financial picture, how pay increases over the Hague's projections will lead to short - term increases, then to eat up inflation. This scene does not mention how to prevent the disorder from occurring or how to react if it is the case or how governments react to these differences in their policy. Whatever happens, whatever happens, I look forward to at least to see this magic solution leading to lower growth and lower inflation at the same time. This magic solution is not found in a financial program, and if it is there, the government is not bragging about solving one of Iceland's major economic problems, high interest and high inflation. I think it's rather unlikely. So I'm going to guess that the solution came through the government's approach to agreements, and that solution must have an impact on financial planning. However, I am not overly optimistic about the fact that this solution exists right now. When the Department of Social Affairs introduced himself to a budgetary committee last week, shortly after the introduction of biographies, I asked the Ministry how these contracts would affect the Ministry case. The answer was simple: We do not know. I was surprised to learn that some of the contracts sounded very familiar. I had seen them mentioned in a financial program. I wondered, " Is there any aspects of the budget or whether it would be an additional one? ' What impressed me even more was that living contracts are increasing 16% from 2018. There's already been a 15 percent raise in budget 2019. Does this mean, then, that children's failure to make money through the contracts of the biographer agreements? I don't get it. I see on the board of directors' website that the government proposes 45 actions in support of biographies, while the accompanying document contains only 38 actions. It's like it's missing one page. Not enough. The biographer agreements call for three years an tax limit that remains real. On page 18. However, a 77 financial program refers to an increase in a person's rate of 1 percentage points in addition to a legal increase of 3.7%. That's where the real increase is taken away. Clearly, there is a change from a financial program. No doubt there are more examples than time is limited, and this should be enough for people to see the reason why we need to discuss the impact of collective agreements on the financial program that will be discussed by the whole Congress of these days. All committees of the council are now working to collect reviews, get visitors, and ask questions about an out - of - date financial program. Not out - of - date, as I mentioned in my previous discussion about the plan. It is now out - of - date because of collective agreements. A financial strategy that is out of date because the reduction in estimated personality discount is not explained, out of date because the Ministry cannot answer the impact of collective agreements on their topic fields, out of date because they need a magic solution in a financial program to wipe out the high interest and inflation. So I ask: What kind of respect is given to the council's time and client who have to discuss the current financial program? It's really like some job-winning job where we dig a canal to dig back into it when we finally find out what a contract does to a financial plan. Let me guess, it won't be until later. as changing proposals flow in as often as before, adjustments made, without reviews, and even overthrowing the comments of some people, such as financial advisers. This is, of course, great for the execution of power. The General is busy reviewing out - of - date financial programs, and then when changes finally come, there is no time to review them with critical and professional thinking because changes are usually not presented in any context. As a result, the European Commission will do what it looks like, and the Council will again confirm its nickname of being a plunger rod. The way out of this is that the Council says, "Stop here, stop here, stop. " If the government wants a financial program, or budget, the government must meet the conditions of government laws on public finances. The Parliament must have a clear overview of the impact of collective agreements on financial programmes, policy-makers, priorities, measures, goals and standards, income and expenses, management and topic areas. Everything else, until the council gets this overview, it's a waste of time, waste and contempt for the importance of the U.S. government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u32	A respectable president. During the last week, major steps were taken in signing a lifetime contract agreed by the workforce's members with the backing of the government. It is a process of continued life span until it is more than three years old. This contract is a new approach to the fact that living in a labour market applies to the entire nation. Hence, if the government is to succeed, it must be in the same rhythm. The government's access to a biography agreement involves a number of ways that beats the rhythm of the workforce partners to maintain stability. In order to maintain stability and harmony, the contract takes on many ways. To that end, the government has provided an scope of 80 billion for the duration of collective agreements - to support stability goals and to improve the terms of the remuneration. The government's actions are to meet the children and people in lower income groups. The advance team has had its policy sheet to remove the staff from the index. That the peace which was signed should be preached in the things that were written. This is in line with the results of a task force on the national financial policies, which says that housing prices do not belong in Iceland's Pentateuchary Bank. This contributes to the stability of the housing market. In addition, the biographer agreements include 13 other housing resources, in support of housing options, for both buyers and tenants, with special emphasis on first purchases - but also for those who have not owned property for five years. While the government has taken steps to defuse insurance on loans, they are under attack on counterweight measures to protect young people's potential and low incomes for housing. Great instability has been defined as an Icelandic housing market. Real estate and rent prices have risen dramatically here in the capital area, which has created a imbalance between demand and supply. In the region, the demand for housing has increased, but the rise in real estate has not been accompanied by the trend here in the southwest corner. By means of the government's actions on housing, stability is available that creates peace and security. It's been missing in the last decade. The environment should contribute to a decrease in growth that benefits both households and employment. It adds to the domestic income and stimulates the job to increase and consider innovation and investment. A respectable president. Both the government and the labour market parties are involved in reducing the balance of insurance. During the past decade, even more have responded to that viewpoint. It is also obvious from the picture that has appeared since collapse. It is known that when inflation takes place, credit stores will increase and property transfers will be made from country's homes to financial institutions. This has even been true. has led many homes to be driven in an overcrowded business. The entire community has had to carry enormous costs that might not have had to happen had it not been - although there were other reasons. The agreement in the biographer agreements gives evidence of us in a workforce for a frightening winter that was characterized by uncertainty and pessimism. As a result of the high - quality leadership of a team in the workforce and the development of the government, I'm sure it's come back to the Lord's Evening Meal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u33	A respectable president. We are here going to discuss the cooperation of newly formed agreements and the promises of the government there to submit to the contributions of the government budget and the great changes that have been made to our economy in short time. That may be what the discussion should be primarily about. It has been given very costly promises on the part of the government, not only in connection with these collective agreements, but in general, regarding the unprecedented increase in government funds over the next five years, which will not be seen to be the source of any insight as we look at the clear downs and downs that are taking place in the economy today. It is of considerable concern when we look at and read the comments of a financial Council on an existing financial strategy where criticism has been developed previously on the financial programmes of this government, that the government of long-term, strong economic growth has placed itself in a straitjacket of its own financial policy, which is now tried for the first time in earnest when the economy is cooled and seen as economic growth declines, even the prospects for little or even the lack of profit in this year, and the income of the state's profit will obviously decrease. This is what financial authorities warned the government about in the last financial program. This is criticism that has been presented for the financial policy of this government since its first budget, that there was overworked, and one basic set of laws on public finance, carefulness, would be paralyzed. Today, the government has the cup in its hands that he has made a huge, costly promise but will yet answer the basic question: How will they afford the promises? Sadly, there was nothing to be seen in the Sermon on the Mount. A prime minister who gave no indication of where to cut down, where to raise taxes. How should the funds be financed? How is it to ensure that the expenditures or expenditures made by the government in relation to recently established collective agreements will not be just a rubber check? Let's just get back to the bargains itself. I agree with what. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, who was concerned that the political and collective agreements had become too much, that political demands for the generation of collective agreements, which can truly be agreed, and can be said, of course, that the government has immediately established with its declaration of policy at the beginning, where the government played a key role in the release of these labour agreements. As a result, when new agreements are addressed, they may rarely have been made in more favorable circumstances. At the peak of historicality, unemployment is relatively low, the economy in general in good condition, although cooling off. In itself, there is nothing that called for such an extensive relief from government. But is this perhaps a cognition of the modern - day figure - on - the - face political system that the government was to set up as a sort of rider on a white horse at its release? [[Flmrh.: And solved it.]] - Well, that's the good part, you know, the best part. Minister of Social Affairs, though I have been here, that in this form of government, the government managed to pack up his policies, which were originally made in the government's declaration as some sort of solution to collective agreements, which is so well done by the Supreme Court. Governments. [[Flmrh.And solve...]] [[Up front.]] Then you might ask: " Never did I want to make those promises any different than I did in terms of collective agreements? I'd like to offer you the highest. Social Affairs Minister if he wants to accept the word. [[Up front.]] The problem, however, is the following; that is not the basis for the promises made. It says, and it is necessary to give commendation, that the prophecy of the Gentiles should be reexamined. There is a clear need for this, and there is no way for a government financial plan without us getting a new economic forecast to work with. Clearly, the basis for today's economic forecasts is totally smiling, and they were smiling when it was recommended to the government's financial program. When it comes to a housing market, you can ask yourself, " Where do these funds come from, for example? ' to come to what is being proclaimed, and, in fact, to a number of critical matters that could be identified by the government's actions in terms of the housing market. There is a ban on a particular loan form, which obviously affects the income-employing stakeholders of a housing market. At the same time, large amounts of funds should be added to rented solutions at a housing market. At the same time, there should be some new form of government-secured loans to offset the negative effects of government action itself into the housing market. I'm amazed to say that it seems to me when these actions are carefully considered that there is one of the biggest government items in this facility that we've ever seen before and since. I'm impressed to see that this is done under the premise of the Independence Party government. It has been suggested that this will be based at a rate each year under the premium of the trade unions in addition to the 100◯200 apartments per year that come through the social apartment system, and it is in a housing market that usually takes about 1,600 apartments a year. I call for an evaluation of this effect on the construction market in general and the free market on housing and the current policy of property that has been in a housing market for decades, where a large majority of the population wants to have their own housing and is not calling for further governmental exchanges on this market, to take over the market through rented areas and social housing. There has become something peculiar about a housing market that requires 50 to 60% of the facilities built each year to be dependent on some social merit. Does that describe someone else's underlying problem than a buyer's income? Does that describe instability, high interest level, as it is generally difficult to acquire a roof over your head? If so, why not take on the root of the problem rather than resort to such public involvement in the existing housing markets? The big thing about this is, of course, the government budget. It has been estimated that some 30 billion leftovers in the coming years will have to be returned, on both high costs and procrastination predicted by the cooling economy. Then you ask: Would it not have been wiser to listen to the warning at the outset, to heed the repeated warnings given by the financial Council that has a legal role in being a legal adviser to governments on the financial and financial issues of the entire administration rather than to attach themselves to the government's straitjacket? Because this discussion has also made it very clear that there are no grounds to reevaluate policy. The fact is, the government has gone into overwork, and now it has to tear down the sails at the same time as the economy is coming together, exactly what was repeated to the first financial programme, in the first budget of this government. But, unfortunately, over the decades it is the classic economy of the Independence Party to spend the money that comes into the state's budget at a time, to stretch out the subject of time and then to draw together when the economy gets cold. It is interesting to read the opinion of a financial body that warns that government interests are too large a economic role, that they are trying too hard to use the Italian economics to increase government spending in times of recession and to use discretion in the time of living up to time. At the same time, it would be desirable for the state's budget to be neutral in the economy, to be won from baseline by the government's public financial laws on firmness, transparency, and caution at all times, but not to be shown in the state's financial affairs, as has been done in recent years, and that this government will make a major application of government spending on that same foundation. I think it's important for us to get a better estimate of the economy as early as possible in this discussion. There must be clear answers from the government on where to go in surgery. Is there yet another way to cut down on public projects, necessary infrastructures that have been starving for far too long? Should the promises made with increased expenses be reviewed in connection with prolongation of birthworm, in connection with collective agreements, in growing housing support? [[The president calls.]] Will one more trip to the necessary revision of their systems betray the disability? Where should the funds for these promises come from?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u34	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Prime Minister for taking good care of our government's call and coming here to present the report to us. It is undisputed that this intervention by the government in the difficult struggle we were facing in the country really benefited. It's going down, and now we've turned down those contracts, and I'm just going to say that there's not a lot of bad things that don't offer us anything good. I say, congratulations, to the labor movement, that the major stage is reached and that at the same time we are in the wind, possibly, in connection with the impending strike action that had really lay ahead of us the consequences of land and nation. On the other hand, giant projects are ahead of us. Tens of thousands of employees will work out their contracts, and then the question is what the government will do about it. Will the government continue to step in and try to meet it, the so - called life - making agreements are principally thought of there? I guess so. It's a turning point, to say, for the first time, let's see in such negotiations that percentage increases in pay are not just being focused on, but we've seen that the minimum wage's been rising in charges. In fact, those who earn the lowest amount of money get the most out of it. The higher earners do not receive more crowns, as the percentages always did. However, when it comes to the government's financial plan until the next five years, all the grounds for that financial plan were smiling before it began printing. There's been a lot of said and everyone knows, whether it's the government itself, the government's side or just anyone who wants to know. I'm not going to count the traumas we've been through lately. I'd rather look at the benefits we've just achieved. Unfortunately, there is one thing that still stands out, and I don't know when we'll be caught up with it. There's still a tax on poverty. The tax pay is still well below 300,000 dollars. There's still a cutting of the microchip, a crown to the crown. I got an answer the other day from the highest. Social Affairs Minister on how much it would cost to eliminate all the poorer and older citizens. 46 billion bucks. These are big numbers. In the state, it is important to take this money really from these social groups and put it directly into national preparations. You ask: "Why is this message being sent so clearly into society forever? If we don't cut and we don't force poverty, we've got a national problem. Everything's on our side. What do you say we cancel the taxation on the banks? Shall we turn down the bank tax by 7 billion? At present, it's not just a will, it's actually being done when I'm standing here in the speaker's office. It's being carried out precisely by the secretary of finance, reducing the bank tax by 7 billion dollars. It is also quite obvious that this year taxation on the seabed should be reduced by 4.3 billion dollars. Here we are combined with 11.3 billion bucks. contracting into the state culture of direct reductions to those who truly can afford it and who are able to put it into our common fund. Who needs more than a desperate person that we put our arms around them and show it all the way? This is what I have already referred to in this speaker, according to sociologist Stefánsson, who did for the welfare watch and published his conclusion on February 28th. It turns out that no one in the community is more poor than the poor. How is it that we can stand here for an elected period of time, a legislature after the legislature, and watch these curved backs bend more? It's unacceptable. Unacceptable, it is always to hang in a system and always talk out of something for the planned, well written, down to the page. It is unacceptable that we, whether in a financial budget for the next five years or in the best will we should be preaching, do not put our brothers and sisters around us. What would the voter think when he walks into the voter's room and puts X in his class, puts X on the one he's going to trust in, in good faith, that he will speak his own language? We look up repeatedly at the High General Assembly that there is a great deal of interest here, a personal market and security. What a surprise it is that we have to look at such things as this! I say, a respectable president, that, of course, we'll change our budget to some extent in a year and try to adapt it to changing circumstances. The nature of the matter must be the right thing to do. But it does not change the fact that between 10 and 15% of children suffer from a variety of shortage and consider poor, according to the report I referred to earlier. Imagine, we're talking about the future. We're talking about our children, 10 to 15 percent of children in poverty. It's the last black, respectable President. This is, in fact, heavier than tears, and I don't believe that we should talk about it any more, that we should not think more of the social groups that are in need of our help. Of course, it is a huge step to try to make the house market so that these poor children will live in security. Some of them have been refugees in their own land and have even lived in some places during their first ten years of life because they have had no safety. The basic needs of these populations have not been carried out. Their human rights have been trampled on. It is minimal that we provide food, clothing, and shelter and that our people can assume that tomorrow they are in a safe place and have food on their plate. We take pride in success. We boast that we are probably one of the richest lands in the world. I don't know, Mr. Honorable President, how we measure that wealth, whether it is only those who have enough, an abundance of everything, or whether it is the famous average, beautiful excel paper as the highest. The minister of finance has been discussed in this public speaker. What a joy it would be to have him in the hall with us today! I always enjoy talking to him.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u35	He's foreign.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u36	I can hear it from what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir wish he was out there doing his official work abroad. But that does not change the fact that I miss not having him in the audience. And thus said I, It is better to do. We take the step in the right direction. I have congratulated the government for taking a powerful step in what she did with the knot we faced in the labour market, with our workers. I would also like to congratulate those in battle who have fought for low-payers. I congratulate them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u37	A respectable president. I thank the prime minister for a good report. I think the government's actions are happy, but there's a lot of compensation for young people and especially for young children's families. For 12 months, the prolongation of maternity is not merely a choice for parents - which reduces the gap between maternity school and prenatal school - but instead of guaranteeing the right of children to associate with their parents in the first year of life. Increase in the maximum monthly amount of monthly pay from the birth ordinary reserve of 520 k. As many as 600,000 who went through the years were also able to do so, making sure that the income - greater parents could go to birthworm. Children's failure ratings increase from 242,000 to 325,000 and an increase in child improvement by 16% will not only yield to young, income - stricken parents but all family members in the country. That's what I think I'm happy about. A respectable president. Scientists are concerned that women will later have their first child. The average mother's age at the birth of the first child in Iceland is growing. By this action, we are building an improvement system that enables young people to have children as a real possibility for young people who are new to a job market or who are still in school. It is then important to consider whether more people can be assured of the right to reduce the work ratio at the end of their pregnancy so that they do not compromise the pay or the birthworm itself. But with changes in tax and tax reform systems, young people will be given the opportunity to enjoy money growth. Similarly, they will make it easier for parents, children's low income, and young parents to make ends meet. In this way, the government will highlight the number of people who have been left on the market by considering how the provision of incomes for all age groups has developed since 1990. That group are people under 30 years of age. The decrease in income taxation in the lowest salary will be achieved by young people under 20 years of age, young people whose hands are less common today than young people did at the beginning of the '90s. In particular, the government's actions on housing are aimed at helping young people and the threat of earning money to cross the down payment threshold. They will be useful to my generation, who have been left to fall, a generation that lives longer in homes than the ones that preceded because of an inaccessible housing market. And the purpose of the procedure is to prevent housing costs from becoming as burdensome as a large part of the provisional element - that young people get into a real estate market as soon as possible. Above the head, it should not be a luxury; it is a basic need for all people. Migration measures, e.g. Through social housing systems, therefore, there is a particular reason for joy. The opportunity to make 3.5% of the pension pay on the market will help them build the gap at the time of the first purchase. It will shorten the time they spend on young people and reduce the amount of money they spend on the first payment. However, this strategy will benefit not only young people but also those who have been driven by property markets and who have not lived in an apartment for many years. Also, the extension of the warrant for making special savings into apartment loans is a special source of joy for my generation, as well as a clearer tenure protection rules. We must have a clear choice for people who choose to invest in something other than concrete. With all of this, however, it is important to consider transport, in particular public transportation. The more rapid structure of public transport is there a key to the general public in the country and the environment. A respectable president. I am grateful for the actions the government has made to meet the demands of the labor movement. I look forward to the future, and I believe that the Life Treaty Treaty is a step in the right direction, step in the direction of balance in Icelandic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u38	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The prime minister's report. I congratulate the leader of the labor movement on having managed to work with the government in the insurance business. At the same time, respect for the government's acceptance, as shown by her declaration on controlled insurance. Among the highest costs, the index joint is to reduce the index of new consumer loans, to eliminate the poisonous cook, and to examine the effect of the ◯ indicator complex, which increases the index number due to systematic scoring. The housekeeping team has been expensive to the homes. During the course of his life, he added 118 billion extra on homes'debt for housing, while general prices were down to 15 billion on a combined headstained loan. The host's execution is late, after this greedy monster has been allowed to walk free for as long as there is evidence. The toxic cocktail is also taken out, the 40 - year loan, in which the first twenty - and some years are paid only interest, not dollars, on a head chair. Out with him and the housing team - there are two items on the market against the insurance policy set up in my bill about changing the interest and insurance law. The remaining two key aspects of the application are left. They are: Out with the indirect taxes that find their way directly into the insurance policy, such as the gasoline, the alcohol, the tobacco, and the carbon. And: Out with overgrowth of securities on loans determined without competition and unsupervised by foreign growth, no such arrangement is offered in the world. I miss the fact that these points are addressed in the government declaration and are weaker as a result. It is a worthy subject described in the government declaration to develop the loan system for the quality that is practiced elsewhere in the North countries. It would have been preferable to take a bigger step in that direction than is expected. The middle class will keep a close eye on the fulfillment of promises and will walk after success in these matters. In the end, Mr. President, I'm disappointed that the standard of living for the elderly is not the basis for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u39	Mr. President. Most were happy when news of the signing of collective agreements was received last week after months of talks. The labor movement has greatly promoted the rights of those who have not enjoyed the swing, something for full reason to commend her. Similarly, in the face of collective agreements, both the labor movement and the representatives of the industry can be commended for their efforts and different approach. Although not always able to unite the representative of the employees and the professional drivers, they succeeded today as they were able to unite in rejecting the first activity of the government and to demand that it be a much more direct approach. United we stand, divided, we collapse. Thus the government was able to draw back to the level that then offered more suggestions, in fact most suggestions that the United States has called and submitted here at the council, such as higher child reforms, longer maternity reserves, and extended housing proposals. We in the United States rejoice that our proposals are, in fact, reaching the end no matter where good comes from, and now it's just to follow through. However, we do not consider it to be long enough, nor do we highly recommend new contracts of biographies. Although a positive step is taken to fix the situation in a part of the worst group, the big movie is still unchanged. In addition, the contract is weak. It is not yet clear how the government will finance and carry out much of the promised work. In addition, as Dr. Ragnar Þór Pétursson, chairman of Iceland's Teacher Association, pointed out earlier this week, there is still an overwhelming lack of confidence in building trust between the labour market parties and the government. Mr. President. The situation is also that large groups of people, including large groups of women in lands and rural groups, are still to be negotiated. Unfortunately, there is no financial program in the current issue, suggesting that governments intend to contribute in the same way to government contracts in the public markets. In fact, it does not seem that the government is in charge of the pay raise of public employees without performing cut-offs on expenses in return, i.e. if they experience more than 0.5% in excess of the price. This Council of Economic Affairs, in particular, warns in its review of a financial budget and says that the maintenance measures that the government has announced to the state and rural groups if government pay raises over the goal may increase unemployment and thus have a negative impact on the survival of the government. It will also show that there is no discussion in the program on how this requirement is presented or how it will be implemented. The situation is, in effect, that inflation is only a 3.3% rise from criteria to 3.8% in order to allow no room for increase in pay for public employees. I'm sorry, as I told you earlier, it's a good idea to call this lifetime contract, but the deal does not involve everyone's standard of living. He will not put his arms around the elderly and leave the poor, and he will continue to pay for the rest of his life by slacking off even further. The same can be said of students, although positive steps were taken. The fact is, students are not getting a larger foundation, and soon their situation will become a special subject for research. Then, unfortunately, nothing is done to counter a problem of property, a fundamental justice in our society. Mr. President. Iceland is not a big country, or rather, Iceland is not much of a country, but we're lucky to be a rich country, both human and resource. Therefore, I always feel as incomprehensible that we of all nations have not been able to guarantee a decent standard of living, just some of them. We need to increase the equation, we need to create a situation here in a country where everyone enjoys the same opportunities, where people can survive their pay without having to work 24 hours a day, and then they can rather enjoy leisure time and association with a family. We are to expand our education with emphasis on intelligent, novelty, and thus lay the foundation for a career that can live up to the increasing quality of life. Mr. President. Finally, I would like to mention the elephant in our living room, which is our currency, which, in effect, splits the nation in half, is a small fortune that can benefit from its instability and, on the other hand, the vast majority of people who eventually bear the cost of its failures forever. The changed criteria require response, as financial advice points out in its opinion. The United States believes that the government's financial policy should be changed and the government law on public finances should allow space to reduce the damage to the decline. Thus, tax reforms and investments could be further improved, the worst available value of companies, small and medium-sized companies, and the well - being of the country. Mr. President. So I end up where I started, I'm sure I'm glad that collective agreements have been obtained and the good and important steps taken there. Sadly, though, the big film is still unchanged, and it will continue to be handled; right or left; conservative or liberal; fundamental guidelines. The union will continue to fight for equal and better terms for everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u40	Mr. President. I want to like the rest of you here thank you for this discussion and the report at the top. The prime minister who was moved at her beginning and made up of me, as if of others. Councilmen here have spoken, rejoice that the results of a workforce have come, and are especially glad that with these contracts, it is laid the foundation for continued stability and the application of a better lifestyle and a better community in this country. I can totally agree with the point of view. Councilmen whom some have discussed how far a government should take the time to help solve a labour market dispute. I believe, however, that under the circumstances now it has been absolutely inevitable because we see weather change in the economy. In fact, during a discussion about climate, I heard that people should stop talking about warming but talk more about the disorder. I'd say there's a breakdown in the economy that we all have to care about. Hence, it was important that the government now resided on the scales of the solution. We've had here on land one of the longest economic growth and stability periods for our economic history, and it is by no means possible to continue. It is also important to consider preparing the soil for this to continue. I think we've been showing during this long economic growth that by responsible financial management and responsible economic activities, we can maintain stability, have a very good situation to avoid the contingency we know all too well. We've been doing really well. We've built up the foundations of the economy. We have more support for our economy and for our professional life. It is enough to include the growth of a truly sound travel service. We have made progress in other areas. We focus on the financial agenda and on the actions of the government that is now on the offensive in innovation and research. This will be of utmost importance in maintaining our economic situation and in extending our living conditions. The basic building of our society, our homes, our businesses, large and small, has spent over the past few years making significant progress in strengthening our positions. Resentments have fallen. They are now in an outstanding position, indeed a historical minimum. How vital it is when we enter the economic crisis that we now face! There are all indications that the increased power of money during the past few years has been used wisely; it has been used to pay off homes' debts; rather than uncompromisingly, it has been reassigned to the increased strain and consumption, as at times, and indelibly followed. It has been used primarily to reduce debt and to create long - term benefits. It was interesting to study the basis for the fortunes presented by Iceland's Hausp Institute. The budget committee recently at meetings and the economic forecasts under the financial program now under discussion at the council and realizes that there are indications that we are changing our behavior in the economy from the past. I was especially interested in the fact that when the Crown's gangs yielded to the latecomer's recent years, it did not reflect as rapidly the rise in in in inflation. The predictions that were then underlying had not really been fulfilled. It tells us that both what I mentioned earlier about increased savings and subsidies are important - savings is now in the economy and it's very important - but also, whether we look to business or to other factors in our situation, that the companies who sell products and services live in ways that are more than ever from the open market that we are involved. The conclusion was simply that in the late year, the companies could not look as hard into the prices as they had previously been able to. This meant that inflation predictions did not work, and in a way that we know from comparable fluctuations, inflation did not build up. This was of great interest to me when we learned about the situation and the basis for the fortunes we're working on. V.E.G. At the beginning of his report, the prime minister mentioned the need for a reevaluation. I must say, a respectable president, that I am not particularly pessimistic of that review. I believe that many aspects of our country life and our economy will be sustained if we do not have a prelude to believe that there will be a bad outcome from that review. But we wait for her and deal with her when she's in the way. On the one hand, when it gave its opinion on financial plans to visit the budget committee yesterday, it was observed that, unfortunately, we have not always been able to be accurate in our predictions of economic growth. We tend to overemphasize the growth of economic interests, but we underestimate the growth of the economy. It's the message of a financial council that I think we should take very seriously and let it become a theory so that we don't have our financial budget on the next four, five, to intervene in such a way that we may be able to pull down the swing, which we could possibly do by effectively pulling our hand. There are a number of suggestions and measures that have been proposed in the collective agreements by the administration of the government as well as the proposals for housing that are still unattracted. On the other hand, I'm going to draw attention to the fact that there are substantial financial resources in the budget in order to handle housing projects. I don't think it's ever too often that we've made that matter matter of our own. There is, however, a debate over ways, and we will continue to do so. Yet, the essence of all of this is that homes have improved their savings and paid off debts. The company's got a stronger position. The wealth is in a unique position. He has had success in reducing his debt enormously. This, in fact, testifies to that fact. a recent bond tender issued by the state's budget and concluded that the price of a trust will be less than 1%. This gives us hope that our plan or hope for a decrease in interest that follows these agreements can go on. I think, a respectable president, if it were all we could go along with these collective contracts, achieving a decrease in the interest level, it would be the greatest dressback that would be possible to bring long-term Icelandic and Icelandic companies. The decrease in growth, stability, responsible economic management, and practical agreements that I consider these collective agreements are the cornerstone of our success and our enjoyment of building on continued stability and application to improved biographies.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u41	President. I'd like to start by saying thank you very much. Prime Minister for the report and congratulate it and the government with success in collective agreements. I find it boring that a minister has spent so much time in his speech in presenting the proposals and resources of the government to the collective agreements rather than talking more about how this will affect financial programs. When law on government finance was passed, the importance of financial planning not only for policy development but also for effective monitoring with the provision of public funds, assets, and rights. For this to work, the plan needs to be based on the most accurate information each time. Information about how, how to do it, and why to act in the program, whether it is politically convenient for them to be available to the public or not. The Parliament must be able to assume that the information it has for treatment is correct. Looking at this financial program, you suspect that keeping information outside it is deliberately being held. Two locations in a financial program refer to the situation in aviation market and the problems it could create without any predicting the overall impact on the economy and on the state business if one of the two major airlines went bankrupt. Of course, it would not be easy to predict whether WOW's fall in official evidence before then, but it is important that a government fund is able to foresee the effects of such a fall. The effect of collective agreements on government management is also discussed in 35 locations, but instead of explaining the proposed actions of the government on collective agreements, only state funds will take a significant commitment with a decrease in income and additional expenses to cover the production of existing collective agreements. However, such shaking of hands does not reveal action. In some respects, it is understandable, the government wants to hold the cards when their publication can affect the outcome of agreements. So here are three views that seem inconsistencies; that there are information available to the Council on what the government's objective is in a financial programme to prevent a state in accordance with official financial laws, that temporary confidence is holding the measures that the government intends to offer to cut down the negotiations in a commercial market and that the public is informed about the state of the economy in the way it is realistic without any negative expectations affecting the market and the economy. These goals may not all seem to be possible at the same time, but if they are not possible, we need to have a conversation about engineering and methodology in order to try to ensure as much information flow as possible. The premise must be a complete information gift from the government to the council. It is clear to everyone that the government hardly predicts exactly what action must be taken in a labour market to achieve a contract, and it is also difficult to tell exactly the effect of bankruptcy on one of the largest jobs in the country. Nevertheless, government ministers had arranged a number of measures in advance, and these were hardly out - of - the - air ideas. There must have been some kind of field analysis, or I hope that at least. Really. There is a reason to celebrate many of the actions the government has proclaimed on the collective agreements, but it is almost impossible to believe that these ideas were not in great advance and that it is totally unclear that it would have had a negative effect on the course of a collective agreement to inform about these actions in the same way as it was informed about the making of a new income tax level. It could even have rushed the collective agreements. The budget cannot be one State edition of the future economic outlooks of the economy. She must consider different stage illustrations and display their influence. If not, this plan cannot be believed. The government needs to establish a credible financial program that is placed in trust by the United States. This diverse trust will not be promoted by not setting plans for financial matters. My message to the highest. Prime Ministers are simple: The credibility of financial programs is important, but the credibility does not exist if the government covers a vast array of things that could affect the survival of the funds and the survival of all Icelanders. Having this conversation with the council in an open and honest way is important. Don't get away with it. I hope that in his second speech, there will be the highest. Prime Ministers more fully into how this affects financial programs and how we should be able to do our part as an observer to see what is really going to happen here in the next few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u42	A respectable president. I'm going to discuss government support to the biographer agreement. The government's pack of measures contains one 80 billion during the contract period, and it can be called a turning point plan. This package contains dozens of activities that support stability targets and improve the quality of long - term paymen. In all, these are 38 ambitious actions that affect many and different aspects of society. I'm here to mention income tax, where a three-stage tax system will be set up with a new low-aching phase that will especially benefit the most industry. I'm calling birthworm prolongation from nine months to ten at the beginning of 2020. At the beginning of 2021, the birthworm will be 12 months. Because we fishermen have been fighting for the prolongation of the birthworm, it is a pleasure. Children's improvement limits will rise to 325,000 per month in 2020. As for the housing situation, I would like to mention options for the first buyers who can obtain special loans or a new segment of their pension payments to invest in real estate. These actions are especially helpful for young people and low incomes. The urban development of Köldnaland is a cooperation project of the State and Reykjavíkurburg and is also a positive step in housing. Clearly, governments are serious about getting closer to the better economy project and securing this stability. 32 points out that the workforce will be met by the President's permission: ▪ Emerging the role of a national economy to strengthen the coordination of economic and social stability of economy and decision-making in terms of labour markets. You will see that we need extensive cohesion to ensure economic prosperity and increased wealth. This is essential for providing conditions for growth reduction that have long been called upon by the homes of the country. Government attendance is also a matter of promoting prices, but the Constitution of the State will not increase in 2019 beyond what has already been accomplished. A company on the market is called upon to be responsible for the development of prices and to assume that this is the case. Regarding the simplicity of action and monitoring including Whether to provide special contributions from the laws of the law or to make a personal assessment of the conditions involved. This is a very important point to promote the competitiveness of enterprises which are competitive from abroad, manufacturers and consumers at home for the benefit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u43	Mr. President. It is a pleasure to have a bargain between workers, storekeepers, and office workers on the other hand and professional drivers and to congratulate them and their representatives. So the so - called biography agreements between these parties are made, and interesting when you hear these political categories state that they do not agree with them, as the Conspiracy did earlier. On the other hand, I think that there are a lot of good things in these contracts that were achieved, to focus on the increase in the lowest taxation, the pay development insurance for a tax count, and the opening of the work week's shortening through work conditions. There is also the terms of the collective agreements of so-called economic growth so as to maintain pay increases in economic growth. There is an interesting innovation, as well as the new approach to the highest degree. As regards the access of the government to the conclusion reached, the prime minister began. This, of course, was the contribution made by the Government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, who can be estimated at some 80 billion dollars. These include changes in tax and support systems used by young people's interests, low income, and child - care families, which also benefit older citizens and micropiers. Reduce taxes on the total income level by 10,000 bucks. and children's improvement and limit of their limits are examples of such changes. Strategies in housing such as increases in establishments for social housing, clearer rent protection regulations, and administration of state routes for which to include: A tenant camp, will contribute to a healthy tenet, and provide these groups with increased housing options. We certainly see a failure of hairy hair, which is certainly a cause for stumbling. It is estimated that some 18 billion of export prices will be lost because of the one who will affect both the wealth and, of course, a few of the country's settlements. WOW's cash failures were also a major hit on the economy, but not least a shock to those who lost their job because of it. The government was not around the collapse of the airline. Increased funds were put to health institutions and employment agencies, deadlines in the Icelandic Board of Education have been extended, education and academic status have increased. Ministers have even. Meeting with representatives of the institutions and members of the South, these are just a few examples of the actions the government has taken because of bankruptcy. The increase in unemployment rates and the maximum pay paid by the previous year is also a change of importance. A respectable president. A financial committee now has a financial agenda for consideration. There we come to appreciate these factors, as shown in the words of the highest degree. Prime Minister. Not to be overlooked is the fact that many of these are already included in the program and taken into consideration. It's not like all this event is outside. Yet, while social trauma may result, there is reason to be positive when considering the overall picture. Our economy is strong, and we are equipped to handle the challenges involved. Unemployment is quite low, which will hopefully give them the opportunity to get back into the job market. Reports that the airlines are increasing their trips to and from the country, and even new airlines are flying to the country, hopefully this blow will have as serious an effect on secondary jobs as it was feared. Recently, too, the good news was that mackerel stock was somewhat larger than previously anticipated. Then the public investment will come into the economy at just the right time. It is expected that the injection of the official will produce about 300 jobs in the construction sector immediately this year and about 600 until 2021. I believe that the government's social investment will not only make life easier for people but also have a positive influence on the economy. Mr. President. Sadly, trauma is an inevitable part of life. What really matters is how we react to such calamities. I believe the government has responded right away. It is a government that has worked for a year and four months, and it has been accomplished tremendously. But, of course, there are many things that we do not do, and we remember here to stand up for the watch under the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u44	Mr. President. As soon as I thank the highest. Prime Minister before the discussion, I would like to start my speech here today by celebrating newly developed agreements, which are in many ways novel, with new people in the recent years who have chosen to take the lead in the unions a fine witness of vision and a sense of urgency in solving the knot that long appeared to be insurmountable. Therefore, I would like to use this opportunity to congratulate all parties deeply, Mr. President. In many areas, however, problems arise, with the highest professional situation in Southnes following the fall of WOWair, as many speakers have visited. I strongly emphasize that governments contribute to that area in a way that does not cause demolition in the south via the sea. Mr. President. I would particularly like to use this talk period to discuss the fluency during winter and spring, since for the first time in many years, no fish was allowed from the hairy ground. Loin fishing has for years been a burden on employment in several rural areas in the country, especially in the South and East. It is not only the fur that is not visible but also the lobster. Eight years ago, more than 2,000 tons of lobster were caught here, while the advice of the year accounts for 235 tons, about 10% of what was caught only a few years ago. This too is a collapse of a valuable stock, with relatively worst results in southern settlements. I'd like to mention, for example. The Cape of the Hornfjord and the Westland Islands. Mr. President. The collapse of these strains is a major shock to these settlements and is seen in significant losses in rural areas, but also in fishermen, fish workers, and inhabitants, and has a major impact on the urban population. The government will not take any special measures for this. It says that hunting depends on the fluctuations of the natural world and that those who base their resources on hunting must be prepared to take those swings. Mr. President. There are other things to do or not do. In this light, e.g. It is impossible to ask less than that governments set aside any thought - provoking thoughts about reduced donations to the rural budget. Then sea research can be enhanced and our knowledge of the resources of the sea that we have survived for centuries can be increased. The study of the hairy powder requires large increases and the new catch calls for increased research, as well as for reducing the uncertainty of hair measurements. Mr. President. The pressures of carbon costs on the seaside could be reviewed, especially since the industry has reduced its emissions by 54% from 1990, by economic management, by technologies, and by new ships, and so far beyond the requirements of the Paris Convention but still has to endure a large rise in carbon costs and should be continued. What's the point? Based on the use of carbon costs in this industry in some particular environmental research? Or is this another tax? The government could also set aside plans for the demolition of public jobs in the country as long as there is constant improvement in the capital area, including a recent example from the Western Islands, a reduction in the number of county reformed. Mr. President. We are facing a critical period of professional life in the country. The central category stresss that the score will be much larger to the reduction of insurance costs than has been expected to be better able to raise the pay, increase the number of employees, and attack investments in order to increase production.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u45	A respectable president. The biographies that were terminated a few days ago are, in fact, landmark treaties. I believe these contracts will affect the development of long-term labour contracts. They will be seen as models, which may mark the beginning of a new era in a approach to a collective agreement, possibly a change in our labour legislation. There are many strands in this matter and many of the policies of the government that appear to us in this coordinated effort of the labour market and of the government leaders. These include factors such as the circumstances of young people, the circumstances of young people. There is a high prolongation of maternity and child - reformation, and perhaps at least not least the emphasis on helping people to cover their heads with roofs. Of course, we independents rejoice greatly that our special policy is a guide to the arrangement's housing. It is an incentive for special possession; it is opened to use; tax parks. People are encouraged to increase their savings and then take care of it in real estate. Specific measures are also being taken by the government to promote the increased potential for less paid and more difficult to obtain their own housing, to be able to share in it. It is unmistakably that in later years, the situation of those who have their own home will be far better than those who have been rented. It is also a fact that this is also the case with the obvious will that in our polls, people want largely to have their own housing. This is followed by the simplicity of construction projects, and it is interesting to associate it with a recent industrial minister's contract with OECD, where there is a competitive assessment of regular activities in tourism and construction. There are high hopes and estimates that it will take about a year and a half, models that OECD has driven in more countries with good results. There will be no other way to see this than to mention, in turn, tax reductions. It is a great stage and a joy to see that the workforce's members put much emphasis on this aspect. In particular, it focuses on the terms of low - income workers, who, in turn, have a huge impact on older citizens and disability, where other measures at the level of the government will encourage further participation in the work market and hopefully play a role in turning back the negative trends that have been involved in these areas. It's built in this all-instigation to further valuables, incentive to participate in the labour market. How important it is that our tax system does not discourage them! So this is a huge step toward promoting future participation in the workforce. This has discussed some of the effects on financial planning, and of course, some personal problems have occurred. We have suffered traumas this year in our tourism and in the fishing road. There's a bankruptcy of WOW and a failure at the top of a magazine. The responsibilities and discipline that have marked the management of Kingdom funds in recent years make us better equipped to handle these big projects than before. In this regard, it is also good to remember that in spite of the failure of hairy soil, it is important to have strong, large, strong companies who can cope with this problem and who can keep people on the payroll without any income. This is extremely important. It is impossible to avoid referring to the tax song that has been here in recent years, which has been spoken of as adding much tax laws to companies in tourism and fishing roads. Some members of the Parliament have gone so far as to talk about being thrown away. Now it is good for the government to have built rather on these sectores. There's no real reason why the government is breaking sails. Much more than that, there are many indications and facts that are being developed in transportation, health and education systems. You can go now when your economy is getting cold. What I feel is not very much discussed with these collective agreements, but it supports what I said here first, that the approach is revolutionary. It is this connection with economic growth that ensures a share in the valuable creation; there, I think, we are taking steps that may have a tremendous impact on the future. So it is now true that rather than arguing over who should get a larger piece of cake that is not growing, the basic approach in collective agreements is to agree that instead of arguing on who should get a larger piece of nongrowing cake. Therefore, there should be a turning point in growing valuables in the community, in which the workers' union, the employment sector, the employees and the government, together turn their backs on creating the best environment for material wealth in the country, so that there can be a better living reform for all society's groups, as well as increasing support for Icelandic economic and Icelandic valuables. In effect, fishermen and builders worked after this model for many years, where sailors can share it if they bring greater value to land. Although we have been critical of a petition system that has been introduced in many sectors, it can be concluded that it is somewhat similar with this petitioning system that has been in the labour market and with what is being introduced here, that a certain petition system is being implemented for the whole nation, of course not because of the magnitude of our criticism that we are not concerned about. [[The president calls.]] This participation - I think it can be a major breakthrough in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u46	A respectable president. The biographies we discuss here are products of wide cooperation, and its results are a source of great joy. What I am happy about is that in the contracts and government support measures, there are many social goals that have a positive influence in society, far beyond the group that represented at the table of negotiations. The results also encourage continued development of society and the workforce, such as to shorten the workweek and other measures. Not that many of the measures now being taken to implement the policy of the forward movement and to follow the policy of the government are now being implemented. Here, especially, I would like to consider action that greatly affects the well - being of children, prolongs birthworm, changes in child development, and a group of working men to make housing easier for young people and low income. The child's well - being is a foundation for a good society and the better it is to create an environment that ensures security, stability, and equal status from birth, the less the need for individual support is needed. So I consider these suggestions and actions as a basis for the work being done in a parapolitic committee on the subject of children. The Commission is reviewing social support and support for children in Iceland, focusing on early intervention and cooperation. It is now assumed that obstetrics will be extended for the first ten months and then 12 during 2021. It is still assumed that either parent will have the right to take a birth Orlov, but part of the orlof will be replaced. To date, parents and children have often found themselves in a void between birthworm and preschool choice, which has caused the rott in children's lives, creating both uncertainty and family income loss. The change also encourages rural society to bridge the gap between birthworm and preschool, but many have been working long. Now there is a realistic basis for the work to be completed. I would like to stress that in addition to the extension, the amount of minimum wage and the review of the defined labour markets of the orloft may be a common interest in family and labour market that parents may be able to take a birth certificate together with study or at the end of further study. As is the situation today, those in this position receive a much lower payment from a feeding stock. I think it's a very important thing to do. Prolongation of maternity and higher minimum pay, I believe, can reduce the coldness of a labour market in a community that is based on the high level of work involved between both parents and family responsibilities. I think it's a good opportunity to do this together with the work it's decided to get the share of insurance into the finance of social security on a fixed scale. In addition to the foregoing, children's impairment limits are expected to increase, and there are proposals for housing, both of which will be of great importance to the family home.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u47	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister's report. People, workers at work should be a priority in all communities. The largest women class in the group that now await contracts are teachers and health professionals. Everyone can be sure that there are irons in LSH where the problem is very severe. They are closed because they need people to work, and all kinds of new shifts are introduced, extra shifts, rear shifts, and attention action. People who are in the workplace are important; the well - being of the staff is one of the main provisions for a powerful worker. It is almost certain that workers in a land hospital will have to work under very difficult circumstances and that they will likely not be well at work at this time. There the problem of design is the strongest clue and disorder caused by explosions outside the door is not helping. Transport is difficult because of heavy traffic, and it is a sad situation to offer employees and patients. Teachers are a large group of women, who are now awaiting negotiations. Happily, though, men have increased. In my opinion, teachers have not been truthful over the years. Studies on academic success show that there is a correlation between good results and good teachers. Too few have come to appreciate the vital role of training as teachers, a role that they have taken aside in teaching specific subjects. That work is urgent. True, some write teachers directly to the local communities. This does not change, however, that if the government becomes a collective agreement of some classes, it is reasonable that the state also has some sort of residence because of other classes. In his talk, he outlined the highest. Prime Minister, from the administration of the government to collective agreements. However, it is clear that the preeminents of various trade unions have declared that the biographer contract cannot be essential for their negotiations. They will, in fact, be. does not accept centennial increases. That's why I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister: Will some sort of dolphin race come in a future dress interview? And if that happens, how will the government respond?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u48	V.E.G. President. I appreciate this discussion, and I appreciate it. Prime Minister for arriving here on a relatively short notice and delivering a report on the biographer's contract and the administration of the government. At the same time, I'd like to use this opportunity to congratulate the labour market members on this responsible, reasonable agreement. The biography contract is certainly a legal term, a more dignified president, who turns to more factors than we may be used to in such agreements, certainly a reward, but also a number of other related factors, for a healthy labour market, and to improve quality of life. The labour market partners worked hard in these contracts, and we were allowed to monitor the progress of events that took up to the time of signing contracts on April 3 of this year. During all that time, there was a living conversation between the government and the personnel of the work market that laid the foundation for the administration of government and the highest authority. During his history, the prime minister was so aggressive. This consultation is a turning point. Here, I find it most worthwhile to draw forward, a respectable president, the professional approach that identifies these collective agreements when it is met and that is a turning point. The wide agreement of these contracts is a turning point. Social emphasis is a turning point, a link to a valuable creation, an increase in salary, and the share of the remuneration in the future as a turning point, and a commitment to young children's families as well as to those with less income. It's a milestone, a respectable president. In this context, I would like to refer to a report made by Gylfi Zoëga economist for the Ministry of Presidency, which clearly highlights the situation in Icelandic society, the economic conditions and the grounds for these contracts. Thereby, Gylfi draws up the image that more factors need to be produced than just dollars and dollars for improved standard of living, as well as when emphasis and aim were from the beginning to improve the quality of lower income groups. I believe that we need and good reason for the administration of governments in such a powerful way as shown in these biographies. That's where Gylfi says, with President's permission: Despite general prosperity, several factors that have a negative impact on quality of life have been identified: High real - estate prices make it difficult for young people to get roofs over their heads, high rates of real estate loans make it difficult to make ends meet at the end of a month, and there is evidence that stress causes coldness in their jobs, and thereby increasing days of illness. There are so many things in this lifetime contract that are designed to cope with these factors in order to improve their lifestyle. It is indeed a turning point in these contracts, a respectable president, with this laid the basis for economic and social stability.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u49	Mr. President. I thank you for a fine discussion with an amazing number of features, not just those specifically requested, but the construction of a new land hospital and many more. I'm sorry, but I can't bring in all these things. Here it was criticized that the effect of collective agreements on financial agendas could not have been adequately discussed, but I would like to review what was presented in my earlier talk, and why. Congress officials may have missed out, but the fact is that most of the projects in the State declaration have been planned. In particular, I mentioned that what wasn't in there was the fact that the effects of income taxation were likely to be more significant than previously expected, and changes in the child - welfare system that had not been expected. I also reviewed in a detail that the Haggis plans to speed up the production of new economic forecasts so that the council has the latest data from hairy failure, after WaOW arrament agreements and after political contracts to complete the treatment of financial programmes. I also heard of some of them. Congress does not feel that a financial program should be like a religious publication, while others seem to view it as a religious book that is interesting in itself. The budget is not a religious book, it is a plan, and we have to accept it, no matter what we think, it must always be based on current forecasts - this is the reality and it can change with what happens in the real world. Whether it's better or worse, that's just the way it is, and I think it's quite clear, as well as the fact that a financial strategy is being dealt with, and now is the time to do exactly that. Some nut. A senator wanted to mean that the government was talking about 45 operations, but they were only 38. I want to draw attention to what. paritaprevir Björn Leví, the son of Gunnarsson, says that the government's actions are in two documents, and the rest are 38 and seven. That's 45 if my account skills don't betray me, so I get the attention. It's for a senator. Then some complained. Senators, the government was talking about biographies. Well, then I'm just gonna tell them what. Councilmen that there are members of the labour market talking about biographies, and the government made its declaration in connection with this, so I think they have to refer that criticism to the labor movement. It was said that the arrival of the government was a poignant case. It's a matter of observation, that's what I said. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson. I'd like to say that if the visible and tangible results of involvement in politics, visible and tangible results are evident in that here we see real measures to improve social prosperity, to improve the public's standard of living, I'll just take it upon myself to be a head attorney, even though I feel that it is unfashionable to hear these criticisms from the previous day. A senator who cannot help but agree that this is a matter of concern to all the public, including those who have yet to negotiate, as well as the elderly, because we are talking about general housing measures, general tax measures, general measures when it comes to the insurance and general measures of birth leaves. It doesn't matter whether you're in a public or public labour market, what your position is, all these actions are about increasing here and ensuring more prosperity on a solid basis. Though some have to do with it. The senators are concerned about the situation, I would like to remind them that the same thing is true. Congress officials were also concerned about the budget of the last year, which not only carried out their plans but also did much better. I'm going to continue to be optimistic about it, in view of the situation we see in the Icelandic economy, the good standing of the state funds we have, the much improved savings, the better loans than ever, a good plan, that we can remain optimistic. [[The president calls.]] I think the labour market biographies are the very big stage in continuing on in the right direction. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u50	Mr. President. I make a trip up here at the end of this part of the program to make a serious comment to that during the season. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson was in the public address. Social Affairs sees a journey, not even twice, into the hall to crow forward, certainly more of a will than might when the input is taken along, crowing forward into the hall to disturb the wind. A senator in his speech. I think I am moved to come up here, and I hope this is an isolated thing, not that ministers come in not to have a word with the senators according to the council, but to become themselves, and the assembly hall to be of all reproach. I'll make a comment to that, too, topv. President, that a comment was not made from this high chair at this minister's progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u51	Mr. President. I'd like to say something. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson Of course, it's a bit rough to get to the top. Ministers who are not participants in a discussion make themselves forward and backward in the hall to interrupt the speakers who certainly have become. Not that I missed the best. A minister simply off the rosary in this conversation where he could have imparted, with the same modesty as he did in his walk through the Assembly Hall, his presence in making these agreements. Of course, at the top, it's intolerable. Ministers can't do better manners than this in the council hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u52	Mr. President. As with many other matters, the bill presented here and I recommend, the bill to correct the advanced scientific practices. In June 2018, I appointed a team to prepare the legislation on this subject. The director was Professor Vilhjálmur Árnason, who also served as employees of the Ministry of Education and Culture and the Ministry of Presidency. In fact, this team of workers arose from a discussion in the Scientific and Technical Council, which has long been discussed in the field of scientific and technical conferences and in the scientific community, to increase awareness of the ethics of research and to strengthen the framework of the moral aspects of scientific research. The task force was appointed, and the work force offered proposals to consult government consultations as well as plans and later as cables. It can be said that understatement was positive. This bill was negotiated primarily to other northern countries, but the Norwegians and Danir have recently passed the same law on the subject. Then there is a bill on this subject for discussion in the Swedish Parliament. However, the first steps were taken to set the subject in the form of a Regulation and is still in force. The bill's report covers this position in the North countries, but considering Norway, there was a law on an organization of moral work from 2017 adopted to a national research committee that was first established in 2007. In Norway, the law of research, whether by public or private, has the authority to consider matters abroad if the scientist is an employee of a Norwegian employer or if much of the capital comes from Norway. Every research agency has the law to be a member of the ethic board. The NTSB is a member of the Committee when such ethic committees have concluded that a scientist has violated established standards of morality for research. The NTSB can also take up a case on its own. Science's dishonesty is defined in the laws as fraud, fiction, censorship, and other serious violations of the established moral standards of research carried out by deliberate or gross failure in planning, implementation, or reporting. In Denmark a central panel of dishonesty during medical studies was set up in 1992. In 1998 the committees were increased to three, covering all the fields of education, but by law on dishonesty in science since 2017, the committees were united in one national committee dealing with dishonesty in science. The law applies to matters involving government-funded research. They apply to research funded by private agents, if the relevant will agree to the case. Compromise on violations of an honest scientific practice should be carried out in accordance with the relevant laboratory and presented with the central committee by reporting on the matter. The Committee deals with serious violations of established moral standards in this field, i.e. Displacement, fraud, and censorship, but research agencies themselves are about a different kind of advanced research method. In Sweden a bill on a similar arrangement has been discussed, but the situation has been that public universities are required to discuss alleged dishonesty in research within their own institutions. The institutions have the option, and in some cases they are obliged to seek advice from a panel of experts on dishonesty in studies with the central ethic board, but for scientists outside the public university system there are no rules of handling such issues. The reason for this discussion is that governments believe that the situation has been marked by a lack of consistent approach to handling these matters and the consequences of errors. There is also no official definition of dishonesty in science. In Finland a consulting committee in this area was set up with a Regulation in 1991. The role of the committee is primarily instruction and counseling rather than direct attention to the release of individual doubts, even though it provides guidance for them. This committee then employs a discussion on scientific ethics in Finland and monitors international trends. As you can see, it is long time for these matters to become more solid in this country, and therefore this bill is presented here because we do not define it in a way that is dealing with dishonesty in science, but rather we put forth a bill to correct the quality of scientific practice. In the objective article, the purpose of the law is explained quite well, i.e. that research is carried out in accordance with careful scientific practice, thus increasing the credibility of scientific and research in the community, while the concept of practical practice primarily points to established moral standards, including the state of mind and body. about honest work. The bill assumes that goals will be achieved by highlighting the responsibility of scientists, institutions and companies whom they work by promoting awareness of difficult practices and dealing with errors. This will be done by a moral committee or another formal procedure that is on the hands of any organisation or company. However, a central committee, regardless of its many roles, will be established. First, it is her role to record accepted standards of morality in research, which can include international models. Then, in the second, the committee will be made up of governments and others who consult it for scientific advice, and third, the committee will give opinions on specific matters that will come to her. It may be considered by the Committee because institutions or companies refer to them, and there are solid reasons why they are not being resolved at home. Then scientists who do not agree with the results or treatments of institutions or companies of moral opinion can introduce issues to committees. Legal social committees, such as the Scientific Committee, which will continue to operate as well as the university ethic committees can refer to the Committee, and in the end she can take up the matter on her own initiative. According to the bill, the Commission does not specify an binding decision. Rather, it gives an opinion, and they will consider, first, whether the established moral standards have been broken, whether there is a systematic problem, whether to correct or reverse the results of tests, and finally whether there are other primary issues to be studied. The bill assumes that whether conducted in public or private sector, the committee can allow research to be taken into account. Is it the same way the Norwegians have gone, as I've come before, but Danir, as I also mentioned, has made it wise for a private member to resign himself under the jurisdiction of the Committee. I would like to suggest that no comments were made to the approach presented here in the consultation that took place through government consultations. According to the bill, there will be seven committees. The minister of this committee must seek out information from the colleges and other sources of the research community and consult with the Scientific and Technical Council before quitting the order. Care should be taken to ensure that this committee has knowledge of science, law, and various fields of research, including field research. The minister seeks a form from the colleges and other institutions of the research community and, as I say, has consulted the Scientific and Technical Council. Prime Minister is also the chairman of the Scientific and Technical Council and is expected to be, in that case, the prime minister who cares for the order of this committee, although at any time, as it has been done, to the Minister of Education and Culture, who also deals with science outside the field of professional research, which has been the head of the Scientific and Technologies. This may be the case, but at present this order is expected. The Committee is aimed at overlooking the situation of these matters in this country and internationally. In order to accomplish this, companies and organisations who are conducting research are required to inform the Commission of matters that arise and their implications. She is also expected to report her activities annually. The scope and extent of the activity are now not available, and it is difficult to predict a number of languages. Perhaps they will be negligible and hopefully the members of the Committee will come. As I mentioned, for the first time, a prime minister is expected to board the committee and provide her with a job position, but he will be asked which way is most practical in those areas. I believe this bill is a step toward strengthening our awareness of moral aspects. The Scientific Committee that I have mentioned earlier is already active, which is based solely on research into health science that is involved in human research. Her role is to give permission to study before they are performed. Thus, the nature of the committee presented here is much different. It will cover all the sciences and the development of technological advancements that we see all around us are establishing moral standards in research in far more fields than it does in order to reach health science alone. For example, the use of artificial intelligence in various tasks is enough. One thing that has been discussed internationally is to make up a special international covenant for moral standards on the use of artificial intelligence, both in research but also in the labour market, and I believe that this committee may be an important source of advice for us in the complex solutions that lie ahead. See, not only is this committee dealing with unique issues that, as I said earlier, will hopefully be given but it will also involve an educational and enlightened discussion of scientific practices. If this bill is legal, it is my hope that we have come close to other Norwegian countries in improving the moral framework of scientific work and creating resources to maintain and promote the credibility of scientific work here on the continent. When this is said, I suggest that the case be done after this 1st. Pointed to why. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u53	Mr. President. I'm going to allow myself to speak here as both a senator and a science scientist about this bill and a scientific committee and what it involves. So modern scientific work in Iceland has been with people for a long time, we can easily say for a century or more, and I'm referring to scientific work on our standards. The findings of scientific research are of enormous importance to society, in effect, mild. We can discuss practical projects. Where would they be without scientific research, the mold that was discussed here, the politics? I think we'd make it without the scientific conclusions. The culture, literature, so that I might take an example, knowledge, and education in general, health, and people's health - all of this is based more or less on scientific foundations. Thus, the workings of scientists themselves are of utmost importance, some of whom say everything. However, it is also the use of other scientific data and findings, e.g. of us politicians. After all, the scientists themselves have little control over how these data are used most often, not always but often, but they have much more of their own work practices and their own moral opinions about work in the light of the culture of the world of which scientists belong, and they differ from one part of the world to another, we can say. And what do I mean when I talk about moral food? I mean, objective scientists. I have an endless search for facts, and I have respect for the moral values in society, whether they are relevant, e.g. Human rights, honesty, humanity. Mr. President. Indeed, science is many. The great exchange of science and thought is even floating on the edges and even more so today. While the measurable, authentic values and data and interpretations are often more present in the real science world, the same ethical requirements for all scientific sectors are still to be observed in these two areas. I rejoice over this bill and believe that a long time ago, if we were considering this century that I was discussing or even beyond, it was time to work on such laws. I'm going to thank you to the highest level. Governments, tops. The prime minister and all of those who came to build this bill and will come to its payment here at the General because I have full faith in its proselytism. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u54	Mr. President. I agree with the previous speaker, boy. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, when I present the prime minister thanks for bringing this matter into the council. I think it would be worth it for us at the council to consider these matters. It is true that many moral standards are linked to scientific activity in the country, both within the college community and also in the field of employment. I'll have a chance to discuss this case at a time. A top-of-the-art Board of Education... who gets the case treated but I just wanted to ask... the question here in the discussion that I don't want to answer... not from the highest level. Prime Minister or Others, i.e. whether this type of law is necessarily the way in this relationship. Of course, the goal of scientific work is to seek truth in some matters, and in handling such matters, it can be said that the most effective way to expose a practice in science or other such activities is to expose the false or deception or to what it is. I don't really know if the kind of stock the bill involves is the right way. Maybe it is, and I don't object to being examined. But I wondered, " Is it possible for me to be able to control the very essence of the one involved in this field that is honesty, carefulness, or careful practice in the scientific field? ' I just wanted to roll this up during the discussion, and I admit that I feel that the name of the bill is a little off, but it's a bill for a good science song. Why not just bill to legalize science? Why are such words and terms being applied in this discussion? Are we going to let other laws apply to other forms of unsatisfactory scientific practice or such? I wonder because I think that even though we all agree on our goals, we can have different opinions about how we approach the subject. But once again, I thank the highest. Prime Minister for the move and the opinion that it is well worth our effort here at the council, and especially in the General and Education Committee, to consider this matter, and to try to figure out how to deal with, how to handle, how to deal with, how to deal with, how to deal with, how to deal with, how to deal with, how to deal with, how to deal with, how to deal with, or how to cheat, or other things that are, of course, at risking scientific activity, such as anywhere else in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u55	Mr. President. Thank you. Councilmen who spoke here. I know they didn't especially call for answers, but they still get unsolicited. Hv. paritaprevir Here, a Birgir's Ármannsson swerves a validated wording. I believe that this expression is relatively neutral when we speak of the most advanced scientific practice, for example. the terms the North countries have chosen, which simply name their laws on dishonesty in science. Perhaps it would be more honest just to talk about it, the laws about dishonesty in science. I suggest what. A senator will consider this with regard to the committee on the subject at any time. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. Then you wonder. A senator who has long become a classic when discussing moral matters, i.e. Whether it is normal for each individual to be responsible for his or her own moral standards. But now it is, and it knows what to do. A senator who is well - versed, as mentioned in the preceding article, is that it is not the proper way to extract moral problems into the problems of individuals but, rather, to deal with them in a systematic, institutional way. That is the way our neighbors have traveled. It's about developing trust and credibility, whether in science or in other matters, i.e. to have just the build-up you can trust in, because this demand will always arise. We can recall that when the plastic corrugated, it ended at the table of the Administrator and Control Committee of the Generals. I'm very convinced that it's the right scene to deal with such issues, with all due respect for the good reason. Council members, members of Parliament, who are certainly supposed to monitor public institutions. Is it normal, though, that it handles moral issues that arise in the scientific community? I don't think so. I believe it is more correct that the matter goes to where they live and why. Senators and wοuldn't. Parliamentary committees are not producing opinions on such moral matters. I think it's a step step. I'm aware of the viewpoints. A senator tore here and think it's important, so I'll tell you in the end, that the committee tore this thing up well and got used in its coverage. I reiterate, though I think in the light of the leader - I didn't trace him all here, because this has been the case at the scene of the Scientific and Technical Council, at least Since the office of the Ministry of Education and Culture in 2009 - if this has become a timely step.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u56	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct the change of information, No. 140/2012, with subsequent changes. Involving this case, on March 16, 2018, I ordered the review of legislation in the field of expression, media, and information freedom, which includes: was assigned to work further with the products of a member team in the wake of Congress resolution No. 23/138 of Iceland's developing a fundamental legal position in the field of expression, press and information freedom. Then the commission was also assigned to review existing information laws in the light of international development and to implement the laws and assess the need for adjustment of the law. In the context of this committee, to see if the European Commission's legislation on access to public documents required legal adjustments and to evaluate the issues being received by the Ministry of the President in recent years regarding a legal review. Some of the prime members of this Committee are the members of the council, including the Commission. my bill of silence and freedom of expression by public employees, but also of hate speech and other information centres. Of course, they're divided, so I say so, but all serve the initial goal, i.e. that Iceland had a unique position in the field of freedom of expression. Not all the prime products of the Committee have come to the treatment of the council, including One thing that I'm going to ask myself to be done, and hopefully will be over at the next assembly if it's not right now, but they're all supposed to serve the goal of taking decisive steps towards a higher freedom of expression and information in Iceland. This is under the information code itself, but this bill suggests changes in information code coming from a wide variety of sources. They are to be agreed by the Committee to support and explain the conclusions of public information. The main adjustment proposed is to expand the range of information legislation so that it will no longer be limited to the European Commission. This is a major change. This means that the heads of legislators and jurists must be fundamentally obliged to follow the same rules for decisioning about the rights of the public to access data on the aspects of the operation most closely related to the administration. The objective is that the public can build the right to access information about the administration laws of all three branches of the State on clear and predictable legal regulations. This change is necessary to validate the European Parliament's aforementioned treaty. As for the legislation of the legislation, the set-up of the Agency's work is set aside at the General Assembly itself, and considering that the Presidency Committee establishes specific rules in which any aspects of the Council's operation will be set up as a administrative committee, thus agreeing to the information law. This is the route in Norway, but we have several times discussed the information legislation at the General Assembly that it has discussed the information legislation, though quite progressive. I have previously described my willingness to follow the Norwegian example in this regard. There, the Council has decided that its information law would be valid, with some exceptions. However, the right of the public to information in the possession of the institutions of the Generals, the emissary of the Generals, and the National Reconnaissance, is recommended to continue to act on the standards of the institutions of these institutions. The Court's office is an independent administrative agency that cares for the common administration of all courts in Iceland. If the bill is legal, however, information legislation will apply to its activities and to the courts itself, but public information rights will not be available in specific judicial cases. It should be noted that due to views on trigraphy, the decisions of the competent authority on access to information are not deemed acceptable to the Commission on the Information issues of the European Commission. Another big change presented here, and I think it's a big advance step is the initiative to provide information from the case logs of counsel. In the present legal environment, the public information court is dependent on the requirement that people have any idea of the data they would like to study. The next step in making it easier for the public to get information about the public's activities is that governments published their own personal information on matters that they have for treatment, and the general public can then request further evidence on the matter. Since the 2012 revision of such publication, there has been a set of information laws, but according to 2 mg. 13th par. The administration of the law should be done systematically by the government in making files of a case, a list of language data, and the data as well as electronically available data. It is hardly possible to say that this goal has been worked very systematically for the past few years, so it is time to put our duty together, and it is initially suggested that council members of the Iceland's Management Board be obliged to publish a list of issues they have to treat for the reasons of end-users and agents, i.e. articles that deal with advisers and the public. Of course, public interest and private interest issues need to be taken into account. But it's a big step, and it's a big job, and it's suggested that the Ministry be granted time to January 1, 2021, to prepare the release. In this relationship, there is a difference. Make sure that the Council's new compromise system is issued in mind that the publication can be as automatic as possible. Actually, I feel that this is a perfectly normal step in view of the progressive steps that have been taken in recent years. Governments have shown increased initiative in publishing information about their own business. It is almost impossible to mention the website open accounts.is where you can learn about the bills that the state is paying, making it possible that sometimes all sorts of subjects that need to be explained will be open to you, but it is good and positive that this allows the public to have access to this information. I have no doubt that this has, at the same time, created an internal hold in the system. Then the bill is an attempt to reduce the duration of the treatment waiting for access to information. Unorthodox delay of the treatment wait is equivalent in many cases, e.g. When the media request access to data to win news. It is concluded that after a 40 - day delay, the waitr can refer the case to the decision - making committee on information issues that then determined the details of his rights. At the same time, it is suggested that the maximum duration of the treatment will be established by the decision - making committee itself, which will normally be 150 days. This is related to other operations at the Ministry to improve the work of the Commission. Then, in the bill, it is assumed that a special adviser on the information rights of the government with the goal of strengthening the public's information rights. The government will be able to then, for example. When such counselors are in doubt as to whether they can access the data, they consult with confidence. The idea is that the counseling will lead them to have access to the government rather than to deny requests for security and rely on the request of the petition to the decision-making committee, for, of course, the government is often in question when the request for information is requested, and then it may be more convenient to simply deny a request rather than to call even external expert advice in certain cases. I believe that this expertise is always there in the Board of Directors so that such advice can always be sought. The bill contains several adjustments in the requirements of information legislation that allow restrictions on public information rights. There is a question that financial interests need to be active to allow access to information to be limited on the basis of Article 9. The law adds a new limitation warrant for information on the counseling of the Ministry of Presidency and other citizens on the code of ethics. This is a restricted warrant for the proposal of the GRECO Committee but, in the opinion of the Agency, it is less likely that ministers and officials will seek advice on ethical rules if any information on this can become public. We have an example related to this, but to me a media query came up about which Ministers have been looking for advice on ethical principles over the years. That information was given, and we thought it was proper for us to pass it over by law. The ministers had followed the protocols and advice given to them, so you may ask, " How much of this is involved and whether the release of the counsel requests does not exactly influence ministers and other senior officials to seek advice in case they find out that they have sought counseling. ' That's the reasoning GRECO has for the fact that this limited source is given, and I agree with that. It is suggested that the authority of the public party be consulted by confidential experts according to Article 6. The law not only applies to judicial cases but also to other judicial decisions. Of course, such restrictions are a narrow explanation, such as other exceptions from the principle of public information rights. Finally, the bill consists of regulations rather than material. For example, the government is no longer limited to information laws on other government agencies. It is then suggested that environmental information rights be removed, and directives on this topic be added to the information law to include the provision for the public's information rights to be found in fewer areas of the legislation. This is to be done primarily for simplicity and enlightenment. Finally, references to various other forms of information and laws on public archives are applied, but some areas in current legislation are referred to the termination of the law. The agreement with the publication of the bill was thus made that it was made up of the Commission of the Council of the Council, the Council of Justice, the Council of Congress, the Generalist, the State accountant, the Tribustment Committee on Information, Percontainment, National Archives, the National Institute for Morality, Iceland's National Association, the Union of Iceland's National Social Affairs, the Commission of Government, and the legislation and the legislation of the Council of the Council of the Iceland. After the committee concluded this discussion and worked it out, she gave bills to the Ministry of Presidency and was presented in a two - week open discussion of government confidentiality. It is good to relate that no comments were made. Much interest in this matter. A respectable president. The bill suggests some changes in the information code, No. 140/2012, who aims to strengthen and explain the public information rights as assessed by a committee appointed by specialists in this field. I'm not going to keep this speech all the longer, but suggest that the bill be referred to. The management and monitoring committee and the 2nd. at the end of the discussion of the committee. I encourage the committee to review the matter carefully because I believe that if it's done well, it'll be a great justice for the Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u57	President. This bill is a spectacular step toward greater rights for government information on the work of the courts on the work of the General Assembly. This bill, therefore, is a major step toward further support that the public and the media can provide to the heads of all public authority. This is what the nation called after during both national meetings, the 2009 National Conference on the values that the nation wanted to rebuild the land, where honesty was the longest and most transparent, and at the 2010 national meeting that discussed the values that the Constitution should be based on and suggestions on how to improve it, which was repeatedly called for active management with all public authority. The basis for maintenance is the natural transparency and the public information rights that are being extended by this bill. This is what the Council agreed to 2010 by the resolution of Birgitta Jónsdóttir and the members of Congress that Iceland created a fundamental legal position for the protection of expression and information freedom, such as the Supreme Court. The prime minister came in. The bill is in accordance with the Constitution of open and transparent administration and is the product of a work force at the highest level. Secretary of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter reforms the field of expression, press and information freedom. Then there is the bill of the Constitution of the government as prime minister and supports the Council's Presidency Committee for the Council's Commission for Enlightenment. Finally, the matter has entered the Council of the United States for 1st. After this discussion, it will then be carried out to the administration and monitoring committee and will follow up on it professionally with other members of the Committee. I just want to thank the highest. Prime Minister for bringing it all this way. It's been a long way. This is an enormously successful step for all of us, and I just want to thank you again from the bottom of my heart.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u58	A respectable president. This will be a bill for a European research organisation. The bill is written at the Ministry of Education and Culture. The motive and purpose are to allow Iceland to be made available through the implementation of EU Regulation No. 723/2009 and 1261/2013 are members of the European study organisation. By means of the implementation of the Regulation, an opportunity for the Icelandic scientific community to participate in the development and operation of excellent research infrastructures, which are of the order of magnitude that insurmountability is for individual countries to finance such infrastructure independently. Iceland is an international member of the European Convention on Research and provides road guide (s) every few years with a list of study structures that are agreed on by agreement to stress. Iceland's research institutions have been responsible for several projects on this priority list, resulting in an increase in energy of Icelandic research, a better access to equipment and research, and a greater approach to Iceland's development of research projects at European level. A respectable president. In recent years, there has been a growing growth in European infrastructure. Such organisations need to meet the following criteria: First, the Agency needs to be necessary for the implementation of European research programmes, secondly to strengthen the European research and innovation and that the educational domain meets the theoretical and technical international standards, third of which the infrastructure must be open scientists from the European Union and related states, fourthly to promote the mobility of scientists and knowledge and finally to promote the communication and utilisation of research sites and technology. The setting of a European research organization is considered to be suitable for such international activities. Member States submit to common rules and transparency and are guaranteed. The challenge facing the Icelandic scientific community in this context is that various European research infrastructures, such as the Weather Service, the Social Science Institute of Iceland, and the founder of the Year Magnús in Icelandic studies, have recently adopted business plans for European research projects. It is urgent that this bill be legal, for it really helps and strengthens these institutions. A respectable president. International cooperation is an essential feature of the international work of the Icelandic community. In addition to increasing the quality of the European high quality of the scientific work, access to the high quality of European research projects can increase access to research and increase the impact of Iceland in the shape of European scientific policy. Finally, the bill may be in line with the focus of the Scientific and Technical Council of Science and Technology, in the course of 2017-2019 with the aim of increasing participation in international activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u59	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the conversion of authors due to the introduction of EU Regulation on the transport of Internet-based material services across internal markets. A respectable president. The objective of the bill is to ensure that those who travel from country to country within the European Economic Area and temporarily live there can use subscriptions to the digital material they have purchased in their own country. This is a legal step and progress for consumers, but now they can, even though they are temporarily in another country in the European Economic Area, take advantage of the job where they are subscribers. The bill is suggested to implement the Icelandic rights of the Council and Council of 1128/2017 from June 14, 2017, on the transport of network media across the interior market, with adaptations resulting from decisions made by the European Commission No. 158/2018 of July 6, 2018. A respectable president. The rules result in a limitation of the rights of rights to limit permission to use their work on a geographic basis. As a result, it is considered appropriate to include the Regulation and suggest that this be done by installing a new law in VI. chapter 5 of the New Article 53. g. a. The principles of this article will refer to the Regulation with the wording of change according to the decision made by the European Commission No. 158/2018, compare 2. The bill. A respectable president. The main focus of the bill is: The requirement of the European Commission's Regulation for the transport of state-of-the-line material services across the interior market with the adaptations that result from decisions made by the joint EEA Committee will be valid by Icelandic legislation. The protocol aims to remove barriers that consumers can enjoy services from subscribers to or may gain access to materials they have previously purchased or rented in their own country when they travel to other countries and temporarily stay there. It is done first by the obligatory provider of online iridocation services, which are paid to provide a temporary subscriber in Member States with access to the network access and use of access to access to the network and the same number of access services as in its agricultural state, including access to the same materials, for the same types and number of devices, for the same number of users as those with the same functionality, such as Article 3. The Regulation. Second, to enable the service employer to fulfill this obligation, see paragraph 4. The Regulation that the online, access and use of materials to subscribe, which is temporarily located in a Member State other than its domestic setting should be carried out under the Regulation only in the subscriber's homepage. This is relevant to the Author's rights and to possible legal contracts bound in certain areas of the country. This article's regulations will help to ensure that the use of the author's product that occurs when the iridocracy service provides access to access that it is considered to be only in the country where the subscriber has fixed, not in the temporary land. This law prevents the service employer from agreeing with the headmaster's right to use in each country the subscriber chooses to visit. Third, the Internet service provider is obliged to test the subscriber member state, as is Article 5. The Regulation. This is a requirement for rights to be able to monitor the use of their actions. Fourth off. The person who provides online iridocation services without being paid for can be found at 6 p.m. The Regulation decided to provide temporary subscribers in other Member States with the possibility of access and use the Internet-based iridocation services under the condition that the host will test the Member State of the subscriber in accordance with the Regulation. Number five. It is requested that the right of consumers cannot be limited by the regulations of the contract, as agreed in Article 7. The Regulation. sixth, the protection of personal information must be ensured, as per Article 8. The Regulation. 7th: It is stated in Article 9. to have an obligation to provide access to network-based materials in accordance with the regulations also include available contracts and the rights to the implementation of the network. This is to make sure that there is not too long before consumers can take advantage of this possibility after the Regulation takes effect. And this also balances the competitive conditions. A respectable president. Like me in my earlier speech, there is progress for consumers to make progress. The bill contains a paper that covers all the regulations of the Regulation that are proposed to be a law in this country and possible interests beyond what I have underlined in my speech. After that, I suggest that the bill be after 1st. O.R., a respectable president, referred to what. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u60	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the bill and the story. I remember discussing this case when it came into the Foreign Affairs Committee to lift control warnings and good to see it here on the bill. There's one thing I remember, a respectable president, coming to see us, and that was about RUS. We didn't get enough sense of if this applies to VOLV. I remember we had a special discussion about this. Actually, this is a very interesting subject for me because I've been given a wide range of material tips, e.g. what KrakakabuV has, that it's not open to them abroad, and I mean for Icelanders who live abroad. Since it is often very difficult to approach such a group of children in Icelandic, I have repeatedly pointed to Krakak RUV and the wonderful material it contains. Although I don't necessarily want to commend RUV for many things, I feel that I have good reason to commend it for my work when it comes to cultural material for children. Would this adjustment in any way open the door, or is it just the ultimate decision? A minister to respond in some way that RUS can open up his service for people who are located abroad? Then, in particular, I refer to the Icelanders who live abroad. Then I wanted to ask if the highest. A minister would already have made some opinion of the changes that took place on the European Parliament not long ago. That subject was very much discussed in the media. [[The president calls.]] I'll finish next time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u61	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for asking about the State Radio. What this bill I ordered here for is that the State Radio is allowed to do this, but it's not mandatory. On the other hand, I'm afraid this is a very important thing to open to you. Then I'm even. thinking that children and young people have access to a program for Kingdom News and families who want to promote the language that is only temporary abroad. I'd be happy if I did. A member of the Parliament makes the journey together to ensure good access to the subject of the Kingdom broadcast abroad. Hv. A senator also asked about new author laws that have been discussed. We're looking at this at the Ministry and I'd be delighted and obliged to appear before a General and Education Committee to explain to us the impact of these new legislation and the discussion on them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u62	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for clear answers. I agree with her on the importance of living abroad as well as on the subject of RUS and especially on the Icelandic language of children, where the Internet is currently flowing a lot of material, but it is usually in English and it is more difficult to access Icelandic material. I'd also like to state that I believe that exactly in these laws, like many others we adopt from Brussels -- I'm not always overly fond of it, a respectable president - it's about consumer protection. That's exactly what this does. I believe this includes a great advantage for Icelandic consumers, whether in an Icelandic series such as VOLV, as well as a subscription to Netflix or anything else, and is able to use it anywhere in the world. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I think it will be very exciting to observe the debate on the author-relevant laws adopted in the European Parliament, how we adopt them in the EEA Convention and in its introductions. What I might most seriously consider is whether it will have some effect on the various issues we are having for the conference, I'm specifically referring to issues that are in the Economic and Business Committee on electronic business and legal groups have made a comment to, including on the grounds that there is a change in the European Authoral Code. That is why it is good for us to pay very close attention. Regarding Europe, our early interests are very important. Since we have spent a lot of time discussing a pack of energy and a law that was approved outside Brussels 2009, it is good that we take a little closer to the time when we are discussing some adjustment in Europe that we might record.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u63	A respectable president. I think it is very important that we take the lead and appreciate the effects of new author laws that are now being discussed at the European Parliament. I couldn't agree more. A member of the body of elders on the importance of maping the situation and checking the previous stage of matters before we take relevant legislation or directives or regulations into our own laws, that we have seen our interests and how we can react and not only to act but also to influence them in the areas of great importance to us. This is a small question about change of mind, how we approach this worldwide organization, for this is very important to us and is benefited by it and the benefits have been great. Of course, the topic of conversation varies. The important thing is that we are very good at the early hours in the process.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u64	President. The piranha, of course, welcome the establishment of the Regulation and the bill presented here. I'd like to quote Pirata's policy on the Internet as a single market, by permission of a president: ▪ What is commonly called the Internet was designed to prevent the loss of information. This means that no access limit is based on the server that has become the Internet, such as this. Access restrictions prevent free flow of information and include monitoring of human relations as there is a potential for civil rights to be walked. Because of the way the Internet is designed, without borders, it is unavoidable to be one market area for backups that exist only on the Internet or digitally. It is also of nature that when we have technology, such as the so - called Internet, it is difficult to place restrictions on it. A digital barrier also ensures that its users are not unintentionally breaking the law. Therefore, both users are less inclined to violate the law and the national authorities do not have to spend large amounts of money on enforcing bans that actually serve little purpose. In addition, there has been the fact that the service employers are in the role of a so - called Internet cop in order to enforce such bans, which can prevent adequate privacy from being ensured by the privacy of users. The transferability of services also makes it more convenient for consumers to use their subscribers to create a situation in which people cannot use global digital services simply to cross borders where they are technically unable to cross borders within the EEA and therefore it would be foolish to maintain a digital border within the region. So this is great for consumers and Internet users, and for the Pirates, this bill is being released.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u65	A respectable president. It's urgent to promote consumer protection in Iceland and the bill I've been measuring is one of the factors in it. This enhances the availability of subscribers to the services they have paid for and is therefore an important replacement in this regard. A respectable president. I agree with the members of Congress who have mentioned that there is an increased access to the subject of the Kingdom News, and I believe that it can be of great importance to those who are temporarily living abroad and that we should examine it together. A respectable president. This is progress. This turns to consumer protection and will increase consumer rights and interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u66	A respectable president. This is where the bill will be recommended to legalize the collective management of the author's office. First, the purpose and purpose of the bill is to improve the work of the right-to-be organisational organisational organisations, which are considered to be a common administrative organisation by establishing consistent guidelines on governance, transparency of activities and their financial structure. The rules are to ensure appropriate participation in the decision-making process of the joint organisations and a flow of information to the rights, other rights organisations, the services providers and the general public. Then the rules should be taken to ensure that the management of incomes as joint agencies collected on behalf of the court is efficient, justified, and coordinated. Second, aims to establish a standard of national permission granted by a joint agency for the use of Internet music in order to ensure increased supply of such services. The bill is intended to implement the Council Directive and the Council No. 2014/26, the joint management of authors and related rights and cross-border licences due to the use of network of concerts in the internal market. The directive was adopted in the EEA Convention by decision of the European Commission No. 186 of September 22, 2017, a change in Annex No. XVII on the EEA deal. A respectable president. The main ingredient of the bill is divided into nine chapters. In section I of the bill, a set of values and definitions is discussed. It states that the bill covers all the joint organisations, with national confirmation. A joint agency is considered to be the legal, legal, or legal structure, of any organization, or of any other contract system, which has its own, or primary role, the oversight of the author's rights or rights associated with authorial rights, on behalf of more than one rights, for common benefits for its rights and is either owned or under the control of its members, and not employed for profit. Il. section of the bill discusses the rights of the rights of the rights of the Member States, the rules of the joint organisations, the rights of non-participants of a joint organisation, the role of the main conference and the monitoring of the representatives of the joint organisations and their duties. In III. section of the bill discusses the management of the income correctly and set up the requirements for collects and uses, for allowing excerpts before being assigned to the state of justice, for rights purposes and how to do so, and if there is no rights to be found, the rights to be assigned to the rights. IV. section of the bill discusses the management of the rights of one common agency for another on the basis of counter-election agreements. It is, in fact, there. discusses how payment of collections should be paid for such management. Chapter V of the bill discusses the transparency of common environmental institutions and their reporting and information related. In VI. section of the bill discusses responsible exchange between the joint organisations and their members when such members are a member of the Court and the latter are entrusted with the distribution and payment of a court date and a summary of a transparent report. Wll's. section of the bill discusses the permission of the joint organisations on cross-border rights due to the use of music. It discusses the terms that the Agency can publish such licences, the Agency's information course on the responses to online music activities, the rules for accounting and the implementation of collected revenues, agreements between the joint organisations for permission of the Agency through multi-national use of Internet music, access to national legislation and finally the access of national security rights to national networks. He's at VIII. chapter 5 of the bill discusses the treatment of issues, surveillance, and penalties. XI. section, the end of the bill, it is specified that there is an EEA input, a valid inclusion principle and a change in the behavioural legislation due to the implementation of the directive. A respectable president. The bill that I recommend means that the legal environment of the joint organisations in the Agency will be much clearer than previously established and the entire EEA will also be coordinated by the legal environment. The collective management of authors is an important means by which economic efficiency is used for a number of rights, domestic and foreign countries. Such institutions, with a considerable amount of money on the court. Therefore, it is important that procedures for such management be clear and clear and that participation in justice is ensured in the course of decision making. Its bill is targeted. It is also important that the rules for such management be consistent between EU Member States, as it ensures that users will be less able to obtain access to more than one country and more readily monitor their use of tasks in that area. In particular, due to the use of music on the Internet, it has been necessary to ensure a harmonization of a joint agency across the border. The bill therefore gives detailed guidelines on the conditions that common administrative institutions should meet in order to grant such permission. The rules are to ensure the best interests of all those who allow such national permission to come, mainly the rightful but also the authorised authorities, as soon as they are to ensure the increased growth of international permits. The bill contains a detailed report on both the key elements of the bill, which I have already tore in this speech, and each section of the bill for itself, and a possible subject of opinion beyond what I have considered in my speech. A respectable president. After that, I suggest that the bill be after 1st. Pointed to why. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u67	A respectable president. It is with great pleasure that I come here and measure for the general public law administration, following a Senate hearing adopted by the General Assembly of June 2, 2016, No. 41/145. High school offers a different kind of study than traditional schools. There is emphasis on culture, self - culture, and active participation in students. Public schools offer a comprehensive study that is often linked to a particular theme or regional, cultural, and social special. People school aims also to improve tolerance and social and social skills, including by studying together in boarding. The schools have been viewed as a good option for students who have not even found themselves in traditional school activities. In Danish studies, there is evidence that later graduation is more likely to take place in a public school. A positive community effect has also been measured in studies in the North countries, and there is evidence of a positive effect on the activities of the LungA in its nearby community, along with the People's University of Flattage. A respectable president. The bill shows what is being conducted by education in public schools and the conditions for education teachers to meet in order to be recognized as a people school member. It presents conditions for unfashionable business plans, for the management of public schools, for minimum working time, and for the minimum number of students who must be legal when they begin to study. There are also regulations on the prevention and rights of students, the equipment and safety of their dormitories, the skills of staff and the arrangements for study. They are asked to use students for further projects or further studies, including the following: using the methods of advanced science, which is a well - known high school methodology and advanced education, and it is also taking place at a university level. It is vital that we be able to get more into school and the early steps that have been taken indicate that we can do so. As the bill has been prepared, North American People School legislation has been made available especially to Norway and Denmark. A respectable president. The bill is new, but there are no public laws in effect on public schools. No high school law, No. 92/2008, No. 27/2010, even though there may be many touching books. In particular, the bill has been used for legislators, as mentioned earlier, in Denmark and Norway. The bill is divided into four chapters. Chapter I discusses goals, values fields, and administration. The goal of the law is to help the public schools to be conducted in Iceland, which are designed to provide general education and education in accordance with the laws of the law, and to prepare students to participate in a democratic community. Il. section of the bill is regulations that have to do with the recognition and funding of the People's School. It is, in fact, there. suggested that a public school be expelled according to a recognized business plan, such as an automaton, and that it should not be run with financial gain at aim. In III. chapter 4 of the bill discusses the structure and content of study, registration, rights, and responsibilities of students and school expenses. Students are expected to have reached 18 years of age when they begin to study. Finally, in the final part of the bill, IV. section 6 of this medicinal product, regulations for regulations and validation. Now we're making way for financing. In 2019 there are 30 million. K. Draws to each school, on the other hand, in Suldir and on the other, in Flatty, a total of about 60 million. K. People schools that meet certain requirements of the law are expected to apply for sector grants that will be advertised in accordance with distribution regulations published by the Minister at 42rd. it's a government law. Money has been put away on budgets to strengthen the work. Plans do not allow for growth based on private status, but it is noted that there has been a proposal for action on the establishment of the People's University of the U.S.A. on Lake Saturday, which also applies to the values of the law. As mentioned earlier in the talk, two schools are being driven by signs of a community college, the LungA School founded in 2013 at Seyderdir and the People's University of Flattage, which began to be taught in the fall of 2018. A respectable president. Significant consultations have already been made, such as with the two public schools that are now active and a number of stakeholders involved in the education of adults. In preparing a legal bill like this, the plans for legalization were presented in the LungA at Seystres and the People's University of Flattage, who participated in the preparation and creative work at its early stage. At that time, the plans were discussed with 11 ever - increasing educational centers that work around the country. Also, the proposed legislation was presented to the following bodies and to those held in December 2018 at the Ministry of Education and Culture: Iceland's School of Education, the Association of Icelandic Branches, the National Colleges, National Institutes of Students, the College of Education, the School of Education and Professional Advisor, BSRB, ASI, BHM, the Association of Employment, Employment Organization, the National Institute for Employment, The Games, Educational Center, Ranni, National Institutes, and AIDS. Along with the introduction of legislation plans at the meeting, a public school in Denmark and Norway presented stakeholders and key counts was discussed and brought together. They are consulted by the Norse partners, such as the Norwegian Ministry of Education and a society of public schools in Denmark. A respectable president. The bill presents wishes and requests for a different kind of study for a wide range of educational fools. The primary purpose of a social school is to prepare students for life, to make them versatile individuals, and to prepare them to cope with life. It is in harmony with both the government's covenant and government policy that is expressed in the laws on acting, elementary and high school schools, and the principal schools' courses. According to the 2017 government covenant, a high priority is to promote education in the country, with the interests of students and the people of all countries being guided. The creative, critical thinking, reading, and participation in the democracies community will remain the foundation of the Icelandic school system, and the entrance of a public school will certainly support that key ability. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The General and Education Committee following the 1st.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u68	Mr. President. I'd like to wish for the highest. Minister to congratulations on this bill, and I look forward to discussing it below. This case has natural years, even up to decades of evolution, from the time it was reinvigorated through the LungA on the Seynaut, which fueled a new attitude, a new approach, in the school system. All classes at council agreed on this more and less 2016, and the Ministry has worked well on this pleasant subject, where today's demand is found that we have to look at each person's abilities and qualities and allow him to enjoy himself on his own terms within the school system, whether it is formal or informal. The law on higher education and high school does not apply to this area, but it is true that the physical evaluation - and I am especially glad that a minister mentioned a physical assessment in his speech, for it is an enormously important tool to be enjoyed by as many people as possible on their own terms, at any age. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to how she sees physical evaluations being carried out. Has there been a consultation with those who carry out the physical evaluation and who are recognized as instructors? How, then, does she see that she immediately sees that her physical security begins to drift toward those who have enjoyed themselves in public schools? I think that there would be a very important message to be made into the community, that this process would work soon after the People's Schools had arrived.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u69	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for interest in public schools and their importance in the Icelandic educational system. Of course, we are very happy that we have arrived at a place where we have a bill effect so that we are more involved in this activity. Hv. A senator asked about the science ratings and how we were going to put it into the community school. It is full of wills to get it in there, and also because one of the things we see in the Icelandic education system is that it is more eliminated at high school than it goes and happens in the other North countries. Hence, the need for a real exercise evaluation and to work together at a university, a high school, a re-education, and so forth is urgent. We've had a lot of cooperation with the labour market parties, those who perform the physical evaluation. We're developing the professional college level, and we're having a very exciting time ahead. One of the things we look at is that the demands of employment are turning very much after the fourth industrial revolution. I believe that one of the important things to watch is to have access to education in any age that is highly paid because there is an ever - increasing either demand or new demand. It is then urgent that as many as possible be able to re-create and have access to the most diverse education.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u70	Mr. President. Thanks for the answer. If, after going to a social school and staying there for a certain amount of time, perhaps into the job market but then perhaps after finishing high school, does the minister not see that this period will also be measured for units within the high school or for the school that the individual intends to attend? It would be good to get a little more insight into the way the minister sees this in life. I'll catch up with you later. I consider this step extremely important, in order to meet the least of the groups that have, for example, a group. It was released from the school system. They need to ensure that the system we're creating, i.e. that we now add the system to our public schools, that we really care about these students and the people who truly attend the People's School. I also wondered about the technical issues of the physical evaluation. It is very important to accept the instructors immediately the message to be on their toes, to be received because, in the past, we should admit, has been a tiny inconsistencies in the idea of the People's School. I'm glad they're talking about public schools, not public schools. I think it's important, too, that we respect the laws we set in our time, 2006. This does not make the situation worse, certainly not. But I think it matters that when we settle these laws, and I'm sure they'll be taken care of here sooner than later, it will be clear that the whole system is ready to receive the exact group of people if they choose to go some more ways, other ways in our education system, when society is finished.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u71	A respectable president. I just want to come in more closely with the comments why. A senator who is concerned with the security profile, but I would point it out on page 20. 8 The bill is just taken into that program. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The varied skills students acquire in public schools need to be able to benefit from continued work and work. Since education does not provide unity, it is important to study the study's organization to support up-to-date skills set on the appropriate levels of the Icelandic programme. This approach helps to improve the assessment of student skills between school systems. High school and higher education guidelines, as well as the primary 2011 textbook, discuss step-changes and the importance of physical security evaluation. I'd also like to mention that in Article 3. The bill is on section 9 that schools are obliged to provide information on education and participation in students who can be used for further study or work. I think that me and what. A senator completely agrees that it is important to keep such matters out of the way so that students can take advantage of the study to pursue further studies or to go to other places.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u72	Mr. President. As I mentioned earlier, I especially rejoice at the opportunity that we now have to discuss a bill to discuss a law on a community school that has had quite a long, long turnaround. It's finally come here to support what has been called for, that our whole education system, the big education system, not just the schools, but the educational system as such, offer a variety of ways, opportunities for individuals who can be all kinds of people. Then we must simply create such a community, including through our education system, which is our best tool to make individuals enjoy themselves, thus making the knots that this system works. This is an important part of it. In addition, the focal point, based on the basis, can be taken. I've been talking about the LungA, but now it's still possible to point to Flatty. It is always evident when we build an education anywhere in the country, when we promote culture, that the best way to support our country's settlements is through education and culture. It's the most realistic way, the wisest way. It has been proved through the ages, through many traumas, that this is what eventually binds communities together, having such nuclear activity at the site, a work that gives people not only hope but the opportunity to add to knowledge, or to try to use their own resources in a particular way. That's what the People Schools do. For a long time, however, this has been a form of suspicion toward the people's schools, perhaps because we simply don't know how to get to the public college concept, as a Grundtvig suggested in his day. The district schools may also have confused some of the picture. But now exactly what I'm especially happy about is that we see variety. I mention the LungA with its emphasis and I encourage the people, and I know that a minister has studied it very well, to study the activities of the LungA in the East, the diversity of activity, and now at Flatterunk through the People's University of Flatterony, a wonderful observation. Directly and indirectly, among students and families, some 50 individuals are entering a Western community in Flatty, where there were some 170 to180 inhabitants. It's very important, but it's also important to see how professionally you keep your arms around things and with great ambition and even more so that it's not some central decision but it comes from your grass root. It's from the locals. This is from wanting to make use of the advantages society offers, trying to move it to other areas, and allowing others to associate with it. With great ambition, they have reached out to people who have knowledge and skills at least to push it out. Of course, such initiatives are fragile, and as a result, it is a joy to see the Ministry, as well as the Council, the budgetary Committee, and all of us here at the council have been very willing to go into certain experimental operations, support activities to support these short-term efforts. It is a pleasure to see them take root in the east and west as well as in the Southland, beautiful through Lake Saturday and U.S.A. It's a little different, but I'm especially happy about it. I think we should just stop when these three schools are started and give them a certain amount of space and opportunity to see how they continue to develop, as well as the proposed support systems. I have to say, while there may be one here and another that can be done better as it goes and goes on and on and on the committee, that the overall concept of this is a very good example in my opinion, how you put it on the bill. I've been talking about a real security evaluation with a minister before. It's a device that's priceless and has brought a certain dimension into the workforce. That has even been true. contributes to e.g. The cooperation between the labour market partners - we're running out of collective agreements now - but, quite frankly, between collective agreements is a great deal of cooperation between the labour market partners. This has been most significant in the fact that there are powerful strategies for building skills and knowledge in many different companies across the country. Realistic evaluation is part of that success, because conversation and it is important to nurture it and to feel that it is, in fact, expected, based on the words of a minister earlier, in this matter. As far as I'm concerned, what was pointed out earlier is that they're pulling out an audition frame. It is something that has been talked about for a long time, and it has actually started out a few years ago. It is a work that the workers in the labour market have particularly had the greatest honor of being a source of encouragement and support. There are, for example. The organization of tourism, SAF, who have a wide variety of photos, builds both learning and skills that enables people to go between their workplaces, evaluate what they really know, into the school system, out of the school system. This includes the ability and knowledge that each individual has to handle. This bill is in the way of a lot of fun that it shows us that we are continuing to develop into the education system. Whether we want to talk about the fourth industrial revolution or not, we go into the future to some extent, but we also put our guard around a group that has not necessarily found itself in the formal educational system but has vast potential and skill to be the key to cultivating and giving opportunities. I forgot to ask the highest. Minister of the past, I'm assuming the Minister's lid on this case, but I would like to know about the situation on the U.S. D.A. project with a public school on Lake Saturday. There would likely be a focus on public health, health, and sports. I'd like to know what the situation is. According to this, I simply want to emphasize the importance of having an opportunity to discuss this on these grounds, that we are giving people the opportunity to develop their talents, to continue their lives, and to support them in this way wherever they are in the country. Live again and again, that is what counts for our educational system as well as in other parts of our community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u73	Mr. President. I'd like to congratulate the Minister on this case, which is at last presented. At the same time, I want my friend and former senator, Brynhildur Pétursdóttir, to speak deeply for the People College idea and for the fact that we would make it a reality to put a law frame around this school level. It is in its own hand, and helps the future at the time, when a pact proposal was established twice and adopted in the second time when it was directed to the minister to go to that work. It's a good thing we see the results of those points referred to a minister, that they will come true. It's always very sweet. It has only been tore up the history of such schools in the North countries, which have become quite long and springed from the fact that not everyone had an opportunity to go to a book study that required fatigue. The idea arose that people could be prepared for life differently from such studies. As we know, it is not late for people in general to know how to converse and reason and what else is needed to be an active member of society. The North American schools have grown to a number of hundreds. We have two, and as was being said, there is an interest in third school on Lake Saturday. During this period of 149 C.E., a proposal was proposed. I'd like to think so. Konráðsdóttir But I'm not quite sure. She was also a zealous spokesman for the purpose of doing so. I remember when we were discussing those matters back then. It is a question of whether the will of the Council will require that it be completed by the General Assembly or whether the management plan will be somehow different, as the other schools have formed, self - induced in their environment, as it were, what is happening in Lake Saturday. They have made contact with Dani to assist in the construction work, and so on. At the time of the proposal, a report by the Ministry of Presidency, entitled All Study and Work, was quoted. By permission of the President: To meet the different needs and expectations of students and to cultivate and maintain their interest, the study needs a variety of teaching methods and modern productions of study material in elementary and high school. It is important to encourage students in their researchal and solutions and contribute to the initiative, criticism, and creative work of students. New media, which students use outside school, must be used to instill their interest in the study and increase the wide range of projects, such as in the form of multimedia.◯ This is true of the work being done in public schools, but not to those we know, as well as to many of the higher schools of the country. I like to quote my school, which I am so proud of, the Grinch School of Education, in which there is very much work to do in that spirit. The emphasis is not that students read for tests but that they benefit from what they do, with a high priority on mixed study, art, and creation, as well as the book. There you have seen that students who had even a hard time getting better, because of the diversity in them, and because of the failing of the test, etc. I think it's very important that we establish legislation for this school plan, whether it is to ensure the school's operating grounds or otherwise. We know from a budget I have sat on, that, in particular, LungA has had to bring the bet list every year in order to live despite having a lot of support in its own community, like the People's School of Flattage, though new. Of course, it is never good to have to run from year to year. You need to be able to organize the work ahead of time, and so do you, as it were. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir traced ahead of me, important for us to see that the students who go in there, at any time, do not stop, that they are not used for further education in other school systems, if we can put it that way, but we have to know how to evaluate it. I think it's very important that we do this, and I encourage people who are generally interested in the subject of an extremely interesting history of the peoples' universities of the North countries and how the work in Iceland has developed. In itself, there is some form now, i.e. legalisation of such things, but these have been available in different forms throughout the years, from local schools or from housewives or what it is called. It's incredibly important, as I said before, to see and meet people, both foreign and foreign, e.g. in LungA, which I have visited more than once, and chat with them about why it comes, why it decides to go to school that costs a considerable amount of money rather than going to a traditional high school or educational center. There is a demand for society, a demand to stand on your feet, learn how to deal with problems, be accepted within the group, etc. I've felt it was quite dominant and then I've got to do something with my hands. People I've been talking to have been talking about it a lot. This is something we're supposed to be looking for in general, our school system, and we're doing according to a school syllabus, i.e. creative and critical thinking, reading, participation, and all that we know. When people are grown up and for some reason have not walked into traditional school systems, it is important to have a chance. You can see in places like Flatune, it's such an injection into the communities. It is so crucial for the self - image of these communities to have whether they are schools or some other of such people, since schools are often the hearts of the rural communities. I think it's very important. There's one thing I'd like to mention at the end. I don't have to extend the discussion. I'm just incredibly happy that this bill has been released. But on page 18. 8 In the report that the business arrangement is referred to and that this should not have a good objective, and another says that it usually takes place in Icelandic unless it is stated otherwise in a school syllabus. Of course, it is customary, but we now know, as in the east, that the group is very mixed. There are students from abroad, a considerable number has been there. It is quite clear that teaching has not been done in Icelandic, but in a limited way, the nature of a case, and the founders that those schools are not Icelandic, those who showed up there and somehow became involved in this project, which has become as huge as it is on the Continent. I'd like a minister to step in on this only when she closes this case so it's clear if it's just enough to say it's okay. As I'm saying, I think it's great that we're here and we're going to see that we're still growing here in school. It's not good enough. There's a lot of people need them. It's really good to see one of those schools in the West, one in the East, and if that was to happen in the South, I think we'd be very well off. Of course, they could be more, but I think it would be really cool to have it like this and that we'll see that it's a real school on Lake Saturday.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u74	A respectable president. I want to be like the rest of the speakers here wishes to be the highest. Secretary to congratulate you on the contributions of this bill and in silent pacing of it. I think it's very important that this case has taken place. We've discussed earlier at the council Hall the importance of the fact that this is true, that I believe, the council decree for a people's university in the South, whether it wasn't a whale. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, who began that discussion. I think it's very important that we have a variety of educational contributions. I have been traveling through the country with my fellow members on a famous round trip. We stopped at Flatsau the other day and got a very nice presentation at the high school there. It was not the least fun to see and hear from the people how much it affects the community that there's a group of people there, I'm going to tell young people, but there's actually people of all ages, maybe everybody's young when they're studying. This, of course, has tremendous implications. I don't know if this is a bigger step in our diversity and educational policy or in our community. It's both, so it's important. As discussed in previous talks and the highest. Also, a minister may have been pleased to see this because our traditional educational system is not suitable for all, and some become excluded there. At that time, the peoples, as they were long called in the north, have often proved to be suitable. But the schools are not just for such a group, a respectable president. I think the variety is so important. People even enter the People's School with university degrees, with more than one and more than two on their backs. When we are entering the changed era in the future, into the fourth industrial revolution, with more and more demands on our ability, it is important that we always have the opportunity to pursue a new education and a variety of educations and improve our skills. I just wanted to quote a prophecy called, by permission of the president, The World Economic Forum, I can't remember what it is in Icelandic translation. It predicts about ten of the major skills and abilities of individuals in 2020, and the number is one to perform complex tasks. Granted, students in general learn it in schools and universities, as well as in public schools. Critic thinking is talent number two. A creative thought has entered third place, was in the 10th when they made such a prediction some years ago. Many people schools are about creative thinking. That's how you could count it for a long time. I think we're taking an important step. As mentioned earlier, we have a public school operating in this country, and it is important that the educational authorities make it clear within the framework of such schools, just as other schools and educational institutions, so to speak. I'm really celebrating this bill. I'm just gonna come on one thing. We in this hall probably agreed, at the last council, to the Congress of Iceland's Western Council, where we concluded to challenge the government to have an assessment of how it can be reasonably possible to establish a Western postschool. This is part of Greenland, the Faeroe Islands and Iceland. We in the Western Council's Iceland Department had agreed to this at the council's main meeting. It was originally a suggestion that came from the Greenlandites, who had made a great deal of money out of it. I must admit that the first time I heard this, I didn't really know what after school meant, but it comes from Danish, efterskole, and it's really like a high school for kids after high school. Their original concept, which has been widely used both in the Greenlandites and in the Faeroes, and in the children often gone to Denmark. When the Ministry of Education answered the Western Institute of Education for the last main meeting, I felt that the Ministry's answers were rather low. They were on the way that it was not a course, and they did not fit within the frame. As a senator who participated in accepting this synopsis proposal, those answers were not quite satisfied. But I'd like to direct it to the highest. The minister and the Ministry that it might be the next time the Ministry is called upon to comment on the progress of this council decree to refer to what is going on in the public schools in this country. I visited the school in Florence, and they are considering a way to study northern studies, which I find incredibly exciting and may be able to fit in with the goals that the Westnoristic Council has been working on. I see a lot of opportunities, but this requires that the study be not just in English or Danish. I think it would be best to have it in English, since the Arctic business is not just our business of Western countries but also of other major countries. Because English is a universal language, it would no doubt be better used. I want it to be directed to the highest. Minister if it is not reason to dust only from this synopsis and see if we can work together to develop that idea into some kind of folk school that would welcome our friend from the Western countries. I don't think I've got all this. I've had most of the stuff I want to say. We're all very positive, and I assume the same is true of the committee. Of course, all factors need to be reviewed. A respectable president. There's one thing I'd like to point out, actually. Seven. has been said of instructors, that it is forbidden to employ them in a social school that has been convicted of violating the specific chapters of the penal code. At consultation, proof of good conduct or authority should be available to obtain information from a criminal record. I suppose it's the same as in elementary school, high school, and nursery law. In fact, I have wondered if this law is always being followed and whether it is enough to be said in the law to acquire proof of good conduct, whether there is any monitoring that it is always being done. I'll leave it to you if it's the highest. A minister may react to this in some way. Otherwise, I'm looking at some government specialists. It would be interesting to follow up that this is not just a law letter but that we are under the supervision that it is indeed a proof of good conduct before being hired for education.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u75	A respectable president. I'm here like the rest of this discussion to be especially happy that here, let's have a bill for the People's School Act. In fact, I think it's a very big day, that here we have a bill that has the goal of promoting a public school in Iceland. There have been things that are important in the discussion. I'll probably say something over again, but hopefully, I'll add something new too. As noted earlier, Brynhildur Pétursdóttir, why? a member of Parliament, a conquistador of the People's University, and the second time that the synonym was proposed, it was discussed in a General and Education Committee. Then I was assigned to be chairman of the Committee's opinion, and the proposal was approved on June 2, 2016. It foretold that public schools would be accepted as an alternative in Icelandic education system and that there would be an arrangement in the Northern States in the shape of law farms. As far as I can see, what was discussed has been successful. The General and Education Committee, with a discussion of the Parliament's resolution proposal and, in fact, it's come to me, that I get the most, a pretty good bill, a good frame, that meets the proposed but of course, the current General and Education Committee will take it up for further consideration and consider it. As mentioned earlier, there are two people's schools here, but here's a top school bill. The only thing that wasn't in harmony with the bill and the Commission's opinion of the time and maybe in the Senate, as it turned out, is that we should stick to the concept of a high school, but I still think it's a very good conclusion, that we go into the concept and change the concept of a public school. As far as I can tell, everyone has become relatively happy with the work in this area. So now there are two schools, one in Seyver and the other in Flatty, as we have seen. I want to use this opportunity, thank you for your perseverance. I think we owe them here today, those who have been involved in the school business, both the current heads of the public university, the LungA School, and some of the community that have been driving the project. There have been other factors that have led up to this matter. About A year was held by the National House of America's Youth Association for the two schools, Flats, and Sulleys, where visitors from the Norwegian High Schools arrived. It was, in effect, the National Institutes for People in Iceland, or the People's University, as named last year, which has also been a driving force for us to be here. As we have seen since then, a synopsis proposal has been made for the establishment of a people's university on Lake Saturday, and I want them to use this opportunity and to point out that I think the first transporter is a dog. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Thor Thor Þórsson. People schools have not been able to take root in Iceland through the years, although they have done so in the other northern countries. The bill shows that there are reasons why this is so, and I can agree with it. Here were short - term boarding schools in many parts of the country that served as part of these schools. Since then, there has been a decrease in numbers, and there has been a void in the Icelandic education system that I think we can fill in if this bill becomes legal. What I wanted to do in particular is that the report shows that among the institutions or schools that could fit the principles of the law and be recognized according to them are the second, the second, Hallorm residence, and a very long, remarkable story, and the other in Reykjavík, as well as a long and remarkable story. These two schools have attended, as many boarding schools have in part been comparable to those of public schools. I think it is very important that the Commission reviews this issue specifically and calls for representatives of these schools to see if these features are really practical. There's something else I just wanted to kill on. Haraldsdóttir But in the context of this, I wanted some Icelandic students who are starting high school, who are able to participate in a new school program where four schools together, Denmark, and New York's, together with the University of Versailles, have a chance to participate in a new school program at a high school in which four high school courses are met. I believe this is a project that could fit in with what was discussed in the synopsis of a Western postschool. Only to the subject of the bill. The arrangement for goals, values, and administration is very clear. There is also an article on the recognition of the People's School and Fund. It lists things that are of great importance to everyone. I'd like to stop by the 7th past: a social school is not measured for units, but schools make otherwise programs for teaching and learning. The class course should be at least 15 weeks during the school year. There's a box about it. At 9 p.m., it reads: The school is obliged to provide information on education and participation in students who can be used for further study or work. This is exactly what I consider to be the key to the readyness of other schools, as well as the workforce to appreciate what is going on in the local schools as appropriate. In III. chapter 9 discusses organized study and school activities. There is a very reasonable point to be made in line with other school legislation, such as that everyone should contribute to maintaining a good employee and a positive schoolmate, that the student council should operate and democracy in the work. Finally, I just want to come back to the fact that the bill creates a framework for the future public school activities and therefore reduces the uncertainty of learning in public schools, explains who can offer study, and on what grounds and encourages formal school and professional life to know the function, appreciate the work that is taking place there, and the ability that students develop in the public schools. In order to ensure harmony and flexibility in the entire school system where the People Schools will be part of it, the public schools should adopt a school record of progressive skills, such as formal school systems, and thus their study has to do with an assessment of professional learning skills, such as the highest degree. A minister came into his parable speech. Finally, I'd like to stress that this is going to be a cover-up for a top-of-the-art Board of Education.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u76	Mr. President. We'll discuss here a bill for the People's School Act. I want to thank you at the beginning of my speech. Minister for putting this matter into practice and is very happy that it has come to pass. Like a lot of snoozes. Councilmen have established this matter in a case held by Councilmen Bjarts, led by the Child of Pétursdóttir, moved to the 145th legislature, and are thrilled that it has continued. However, it was suggested that, by permission of the president, it would be assumed to make a public college a recognized choice for education, which is legally granted and for government support. You might wonder, " What have those making the suggestion have had in mind at that time? ' Still, the situation is here and a brilliant first step. I thought about it with support up, including due to law 5. the bill that includes it is said that schools are almost self - funded, and they collect fees, but in 1st, Article 3. it shows that they should not be driven for profit regularly. But we're back in the 5th. that they may have other activities as well as the activities of a public school. I'm not saying it's incompatible, but I guess that's when the business needs to make some money to contribute money to the school business. Of course, I would have wanted it to be a divorce in the law of the State, or community after incidents, to build schools such as these, some form of money, even some kind of unity with each student. However, I understand that in order to present the case at this point, this is the step that can be taken now, and we might do better later. Like a lot of snoozes. Congress officials have entered the operations of two people's schools, as they still call themselves, in Iceland, at Flats and Sundrums. There is good reason to thank those who have been able to support that practice over the years for the pioneers they've been moving on and to survive in their schools, especially at Seysarsk, where the school has been in business longer than in Flatty, but I was just so lucky to be present at the opening of the last autumn school and to witness the great ambition and optimism that prevails around such schools and not at all the least how important this is for the community of Flatton. Hv. Also, members of Parliament have come to realize that they have some history, and they may recall some of them. Councilmen after the school in Pilgholti, who originally set out as a democracy but then developed to be a sort of school of the National Church. But all of this begins somewhere, like a lot of them. Senators have entered. I think people schools, and we'll try to get into the habit of calling them that, are very important in Icelandic education systems, as well as in other parts of the North. We are, in effect, building on a very old, norse educational tradition, and as such, it is very important. It is especially important in view of the fact that it gives education to those who look for it another form of opportunity than they would have had in the traditional educational systems. That's very important. The bill in Figure 7 is listed. that people's schools will not be measured for units, but that schools should be done on their own in other ways. In a similar way to the financing, as I came in earlier, I can completely agree that this is the first time we have it. But I would think that, in the long run, it would be taken into consideration that we as a community look at social studies, such as any other study, thus making it possible not only to use the study at the public school to get into the school but also to some extent use it as a building unit or jump into another formal study. Then it would likely also be a time when such a decision would be made to consider, in some way, whether high school is to be borrowed, such as a second school education in the Icelandic educational system, even though it is not for high school or for a high school degree, since these are often people who have had difficulty finding resistance elsewhere in the school system, and it can be of enormous importance to allow them to find this resistance. Then some kind of funding or loan system is at least the arrangement we use today and it is important to look at it in later stages. I welcome this bill, Mr. President, and I hope there's a good start. A top-of-the-art Board of Education.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u77	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna come up here, like everybody else is. Councilmen, to celebrate this bill, in view of the fact that I have come to the west of Flatton and have visited the school there and heard of the successful school at Seyndir. This form has great joy and benefits both students and the community. What I look at most of all when I see it become reality is that it meets young people who do not go completely conventional ways to study and other such, i.e. As is customary in this country. Not all of us are like young people who often have difficulty making decisions or knowing what they want. You know this from the past and from the young today. This approach is merely fond of my taste, and as it has been in talks, learning how to work with my hands. That's one of the things we've been discussing in the high Council lately, and I know it's the highest. The Minister of Education has tried to prepare industry and engineering. We were in my category on our last election plan to promote industry and engineering, and then with more money for such education, because it's been demonstrated in recent years and decades that those who are going to study are taking more of a book study, which, of course, is a good thing as well. In between, however, balance and study are needed to teach your hands that work is of no less importance. For a long time, industrial deficiency has been observed. Hopefully, this will be a step toward meeting the challenge. As I came in earlier, you have to help young people realize what they want to do with their lives. It's important to move this into society. For example, Flatus, and the West in general, have had a great catch. There has been a decrease in the number of people and the decrease in jobs, even though there is now a rise around fish fire. Then the schools and infrastructures of the places have intertwined. This is likely to improve the situation, for this school in the West is a source of great joy. Of course, the situation needs to be handled, for all costs are money. Hopefully, experience with this will help in the near future that the government can see the benefit of funding the school in cooperation with rural society. It's so impressive that there's a lot about money and when things have to be done, they have to justify their spending and wonder if they're paying. We need to put prices on all creation - including our children and ourselves and our health and health and health problems - and I don't know what or what. There must be a good investment in bringing young people to adulthood in the most appropriate way. To me, that doesn't have to be calculated much, but I'm sure some others are much better at doing it than I am. I haven't looked much on it yet, but I'm just a little bit and I'm having some moves, including points, as has been killed here, that the school has to be able to show how financial responsibility is handled and how the financial security of the operation is guaranteed. That's exactly what I came in on. This would have to be in good cooperation with the government. I believe that we are working on it, and it shows how much effort it is that the authorities are willing to work on this matter. I don't think I have all the more to say unless I say again that I celebrate. But there's one more thing I'd underlined here, this brief sentence, by permission of a president: ▪ People school is primarily preparing students for life, making them a versatile person, and prepared to cope with life. That's the main point of my speech. I'll agree with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u78	V.E.G. President. I'm going to be in the same place as everyone else who's come up today celebrating this bill very much and wishes to be congratulated by the Ministry of Education. In these days, I do little more than wish her happiness in her situation. I'm also going to be allowed to go to the highest level. Mr. President, to congratulate Pétursdóttir, a former senator, on this matter. She made that offer in her own time, along with all of us who were then members of a council of Hearts, but this was her primary concern. She put forth great effort to make progress because this is a very good addition to education. As we have seen, on a paper with the bill, people's schools and schools have been at peoples in the north for aeons and are very sought after and very good schools. They've been killed in the role of such schools. I take to heart that this is a great opportunity for young people, young people, to come together and live together in boarding school. I find it amazing to be able to attend a boarding school where people spend the rest of their days together and have to take care of themselves and learn how to live. There's something missing in our system today and into the modern world that the schools do. Hv. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir mentioned earlier the goals that we need to focus on in our modern education and school. As a teacher, I think that one of the most important things we teach children and young people today is good communication. We are living in a time of population growth, and we have to deal with this. As noted, we need to learn to tolerate differing viewpoints, how to deal with different issues, and how to deal with them. I think it's extremely important. I think this school, as all schools are supposed to do, should focus on teaching young people how we deal with life, how we treat one another. Good communication is an incredibly important and recipe for good society. We don't always agree, that's not how it is, but we can disagree but still have friends. I think it's missing. It is stated here that there is a need for tolerance and social and communication. It's really important. I listened to the head of the University of Reykjavík, I think it was last year, on a radio interview, that stressed this as one of the most important things in school today, social skills and information. I have friends in Denmark who have children who have gone to school there, and they say that it is one of the most fun things they have ever done in life, to go to such schools where their talents and desires will enjoy themselves completely. I was only shocked when I saw people paying off schools. I wondered, " Is this boring?'And that it may be possible for only children of more wealthy parents to go to this school? I wonder sooner, I don't know. It was mentioned earlier that we suggested that there be official support. The committee will discuss this and find out how this can be done. I know that in the LungA, people were very concerned that it all costs money like what it was. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson came in earlier. It's so hard to live with uncertainty about the rest. Do we have money to run the school? What happens? I think this is a good thing to have always assured, to live in security, to know what's going to happen, and then to the school fees. You may find some aspect of it. I trust people on the General and Education Committee to figure it out and that this school is going to get started. I also agree with what. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir with regard to the Western partnership and students. I was in the Western Council when I was serving here as a senator, and that was exactly what I was discussing. The fact that some cooperation would be done in school, especially in schools like these, was continued by the Faeroes and the Greenlandians. I think it would be great if we could get our friends and uncles, closest to people, to send their children here to school. This would make them better and more varied. I agree with it. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir said that the Greenlands were very excited about it. We could do much good in dealing with these two nations. That's what I've been trying to do. In order not to extend the discussion much, I want to thank you again for the bill. It's great that it's on the move. Actually, I'd like to mention that when I went down to the South Kingdom Hall for a meeting in Lake Saturday, the idea was discussed with the Iceland Youth Association when the university was being laid down, and people were very concerned about the future. It's a really great area to have this kind of school. I would like to see this in a country where students will enjoy being in the wild and getting to know their country and living with one another. It's really important. Again and again, I repeat that students would learn good communication. I want to focus on this, even though I am not going to control the way school is being conducted, that we learn good communication, and that we are kind to one another. We should not be afraid to talk about it. We should not be afraid to talk more about caring and loving in New York City. It's a good community. I don't feel like talking openly about compassion and love as the key to a good life. As the good book, the Bible, never betrays love. Thank you very much. Minister for.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u79	Madam President. I'd like to agree that it's a real pleasure to have a bill written in a public school. Although we have become accustomed to calling this people's university because of the fact that not so long are people's studies in Iceland, our name may not really matter. But I think it's very important that there's a law about these schools, which are hurt by someone other than the traditional schools we know here in Iceland. In other parts of the North countries, this school plan has long been a good addition to other educational opportunities and has met young people in a certain place of life when they have not made up their mind about what they will become when they grow up and have decided to live in a different environment and to do something fun. I think that the offer that's going to be in Iceland in this direction as far as People School is concerned is very good for our stress - fraught society, with more and more rapid planning. We know that high school has been reduced to three years, and young people in high school today are under great stress. For all the young people I have met, and at the age of some, I feel that this has become too much pressure. Of course, people of that age not only want to enjoy life, be young, learn, and do interesting things, put on dramas, plays, and other social activities along the after - school schools. But it is more often than not stressful to live up to all of this. That's why I think this kind of scholarship where people are connected with more nature and a variety of creations, ideas and implementations in a number of things where the individual has the opportunity to develop and be creative, is very good. The schools that have grown in this way here in Iceland, such as the 2013 island area, and the early Fratellis have arose because of the interest of individuals in building it up and receiving good calls from both the locals and the closer environment. That's great. I find it very enjoyable that such things are happening away, perhaps not in the world, but away from the capital, where most schools are, showing that there are diversity in education and education choice anywhere in the country. Will, boldness, and courage are what it takes. Then it is no longer late and often better to get out of the room and to develop in a beautiful environment and a good supply in different non - conventional courses. I was in the dropout school, where I know pretty good and I live in the next furrows, in the South, at the Sufjörður, the last fall where the People's School in Flattu began. It emphasizes the importance of building up ways of learning that involve the resources in the region, in nature, in culture, and in the community of Flatus and in the close - up countryside. The study highlights skills, knowledge, and projects aimed at enabling students to travel through the natural world, enjoy it, and use its resources in a safe and environmental way. These are noble and worthwhile goals. In Seytur, all kinds of arts have been practiced. That study has been desirable for people from many parts of the world. In Flatty, they have been people of various ages, ranging from 18 years to 60,470 years old. As long as he lives, he learns. This shows that people of all ages are interested in each other and only good when people shake together at different ages. Both joy and satisfaction are shared when people can spend time together and learn and learn about things that are there on the program that the community has been offering. But always it takes some money to keep good things going. I saw one in this bill saying, with the permission of a president: ▪ In recognition of a social school, there is no commitment to a government fund to the relevant school or to the public's authority on commitments. There is a measure of concern that there is no guarantee of any solid support for every year's financial situation. That's what I'm calling the senior speech. Minister and ask how she sees it that the state comes about, whether it can vary from year to year, and those who are responsible and who run this public school can apply for it. It will just have to determine how much support will come from the State. But we know that rural communities and various members and, of course, the state have supported the operation of the South East, the LungA, and the Flattage. Of course, it is necessary that this work be solidly based, and of course it also needs to be responsible financial control of the schools that begin under these merits. I also agree with what you say. paritaprevir Bryndís the Haraldsdóttir, both of us in the Westnoric Department of Iceland. There's been a lot of discussion and interest, especially in Greenlandns, in high school. We have at our joint meetings talked about whether this could be connected in some way to the development of public schools here in Iceland. I would be very excited if there was some way I could integrate it in the future. I think that would be very interesting, and we need to consider this further with the Ministry of Education and the Supreme Court. Secretary of education. I'd like to say that good things happen slowly and some go fast, like in Flatty. It was not by itself in this small village that many shores have opened up one day as a people school, but it was by the hard work and strength of the people who stood by it. I thank the pioneers who had the strength and courage to turn them into good schools, and hopefully he has a long life in their hands. Of course, once you have such activity in town, there's a look at a small village. I think it's great, and I think it's great to show that anything can be done if there's a will and no less professional and vigorous career that comes with Western and Eastern mountains rather than in other parts of the country, in such ambitious careers that have such an unconventional school that people school around. I'm going to finish this and trust that these matters will be discussed well in the General and Education Committee, and I'm going to congratulate all of us on the results that seem to be coming into contact with these topics. I hope you have a very good time setting up a similar school job on Lake Saturday. I also wish for the highest. Minister to happiness with her work on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u80	Madam President. We're here for the People's School bill. It's a welcome bill. The objective is to contribute to the implementation of a public school in Iceland, which has the goal of providing general education and education and to prepare students for participation in democracies society, as 1 Corinthians 15: 58. c., strengthening them to become members of the community, making the best use of their opportunities. This is a good bill, and this adds another flower to the fleas of our educational system. Why don't we take into the mouth the good word to promise a thousand flowers to bloom? This is one more flower, perhaps not a thousand, but there is a rich need to increase the variety of learning choice for young people. Most suggest that our school system must better adapt to younger ones and their needs, reduce the number of those who experience themselves in a land of nothing, find no purpose simply in life, a land of grain. It's like the highest. The minister of education came into his speech yesterday, and unfortunately, too many people turn away from their school, their old routine school, into the large number of people who drop out of the Icelandic school system, and, unfortunately, too many end up in the uncertainty period, just land in the wrecks. Madam President. Personal education is different from what we should get used to in traditional high schools. In public schools, students and teachers have the opportunity to be more active at playing and doing, experimenting, often in unconventional surroundings, and being less confined to academic and academic studies, although that is certainly part of the study and subject. Conversations, cooperation, practical study, linking with the local job life, linking to the human life, nature and laws of nature, such as these often work, field studies - these are important aspects of study, and although we have carefully studied and carefully studied in traditional schools, there will be too many separations at any point along the way. Tests and grades are not the highest goal of a public school or a public college. They include conversation, meetings, social advancement, social development, and a high level of education. This is what young people today are dealing with, i.e. lack of the skills to have social benefits and well - being. The concept of social phobia may be used in our tongue. In the national university environment, students have the opportunity to develop after perhaps unorthodox, effective ways. Students spend a lot of time together, being free of family discipline, even though high school schools are no less than in traditional schools. Madam President. I know that when the People's School of Flatland began to function, the community changed, young, and moved people to town, creating famous and powerful waves in a small community that proved to be unfathomable about the future. Such actions as this and the public support of the project made a difference. I guess it's like two psychiatric standards a year. Iceaf town, as a world of Congress knows all established civilization, is part of the town of Isafjörður. It's full of social, sports, educational, and cultural life. The local people are eager to welcome guests, both Icelanders and really from all over the world. Space is at the seaside, providing remarkable insight into life, as we Icelanders have lived through the ages. Like many people in neighboring lands, fishing has spread their lives and jobs. paritaprevir In his earlier speech, the Br ratherus Haraldsdóttir pointed out that the Westnorological Council had proposed a proposal recently adopted at the council that we should get on course here after school. It is quite a variation at a social university. What a joy it has been to learn that a discussion of new options in the school system has had wings and pleasure to know that both the LungA and the People's University or a local school on Lake Lava may be getting hit by wind! After school we are not familiar with the Icelandic school system, but of course we know the people of college ideas. In neighboring lands, thousands of Icelanders have attended public schools, where they have learned well, and they have been well - versed in the public schools. It is a pleasure to see how powerful life has been blown into this ideologies in this country. I think there's a reason to say thank you. A minister to the understanding she has shown about the need to respond to the signs that constantly come to us about the problems in school, the problems of young people, and the discomfort of many in school. There is reason to stress that not all youths, but the group that suffers from distress and falls away is so great and significant that we must respond. This is a good step to take because a high school student is a very useful tool for large groups of young people. It is made, as we know, an unconventional requirement for entrance, and it is a little dependent on the schools. They too choose their priorities. We know the focus of the People's University of Flats, we know the art track in the East, and then I expect sports to have their look on the school in Lake Saturday, which hopefully thrives. People's public schools have proved to be a challenge to many people - a valuable foundation to give - students who have studied at the university of people have just realized and learned to read on the compass of life. It has simply been the rock ring that has brought many whole lives into the country. That is why, Madam President, every ticket there is a lottery war. At the end of this series, a recent and extensive analysis of the community college organization in Denmark may be available, which shows that the stay of young people at public school, people who have dropped out of school in traditional education, is unambiguous. The possibility of returning to study and continuing to study at higher levels is greatly increased if the next time you are young to study, e.g. ... ata public school. Madam President. I hope we can forget to talk about a people's college as soon as possible and never say more than it is under the General Assembly and the Board of Education and Education. Let's hope this bill gets a pass through the council, and we can legally speak about the great public schools, first these three and maybe more in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u81	V.E.G. President. I want to start with that, like everybody else has. U.S. senators who have participated in the discussion today, thank you very much. Minister for bringing in this bill. At the same time, I'm glad it's becoming a well-inhabited legal environment and the setting of a public school in Iceland. V.E.G. The minister of education and culture at Alfreðsdóttir Alfredddóttir went very well into the development of goals, purposes, arrangements, and conditions. I want in this context, in connection with this law, all of it, and the occasion of the bill, to agree. paritaprevir In this case, Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter's proposal that it is not only important but also especially pleasant to see the Council's proposal, in this case, the Qualification Plan of St. Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir, become reality. Thank you for your initiative. Minister for finishing this case. On page 18. 4 The report reviews the motives and need of the law and points to the synonym adopted at the Council of June 2016. Then I'd like to agree with what. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, who earlier talked about the importance and variety of instruments in that form, as well as many others. Congress officials who have spoken for more schools and diversity as soon as they receive a public school on Lake Saturday. I'd like to use this opportunity, and refer to a synonym that I've made twice on that subject and refer them to a conquistancy proposal for the establishment of Iceland's Youth Association on Lake Saturday. I think there'd be a lot of trouble at the same time. I am confident that this matter will be handled well. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. The interpretation proposal for the establishment of a public college or a state school of Iceland's Youth Society in Lake Saturday has had a very positive report, and it would be easy to complete the two languages at the same time. I'm sure, watching the bill we're discussing, that it would at least not delay the progress of a people's school on Lake Saturday being the case. I really care about that, you know. Mr. President, how many have you got? Congress officials have supported the increase in schools and the reality of the school on Lake Saturday. I'd like to end up with words of the highest order. The education and cultural minister of Lilja Alfreðsdóttir in her history. It is often spoken of as being eliminated in a school discussion, and we associate it with prevention. On page 18. 7 of the report, so I'll put it in some context, says, by permission of a president: At the same time, the goal of a public school is to improve tolerance and social and social skills, including that of students living together in boarding school. People's schools are the added ones that can add to the diversity of the education system. These students do not give out exams, and schools have thought to be a good option for students who do not know where to go and for young people who have escaped from school. There is also evidence to suggest that going to a public school will increase the likelihood of graduating from students in formal studies. This is pretty important. I quoted words from the highest degree. Minister before, who I know has been very good at all aspects of school work and has helped prevent the school mobilization, the highest. Minister knows what that means to you. I think we should keep that in mind, along with the other benefits of high school, with a wide range of choices in education for our students, though only for giving students the opportunity and the opportunity to go to school, there's a lot of work. I'm not gonna have this any further. Like the rest of them. The senators thank me very much. Minister for this bill that I know will get good publicity on. A top-of-the-art Board of Education.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u82	V.E.G. President. I don't know if there are many people inside like me, but I kind of feel Hriflafrá presence in the house today. I can't hide that in myself this bill here is working what was once called in the solemn times of land culture and nation ◯ because both of them are people who are already in the business of the country, each at its end of the country where there are challenges, both of these places grow stronger and have gone into the rest of their days, and then they have young people of all ages who have been involved in their education. As everyone knows, when Hrifla ofurflu applied to the Latin School and was rejected because he thought he was too old, he gathered funds to go to a public school or public school in Denmark and brought that idea home. From that time on, the regional schools, which may have been just what Iceland needed in the middle of a crisis, appeared at home as evidence of structure, optimism, and evidence of a future in the country. It is also interesting to me, who had lived nearby, to see in the piece of paper a little space about the school of Torfi in Olafurs Valley, a much more remarkable school and a much more remarkable story than has been said. It was not only that Torfi was taking young farmers to him and teaching them a good procedure, such as. importing a new host, etc. On the other hand, Torfi's wife studied with young girls. They were then much better educated than they had previously been back in their local forces. Wherever they were, these people were exceptionally a pillar in their communities. That's why I grabbed the cliché before for the culture of land and people, because I feel that it's doing both of them. I'm not talking about if Lake Saturday comes into business too. Jónas would be well remembered, if that fine school was restored to the role that he had as long as his purpose was established in his own time. I have seen and appreciated it, and I have high regard for the work at its height. A minister of education has worked with the goal of increasing opportunities for education. I once put it in this chair that our hearts dove a little bit when talking about, for example. Industrial and technical education. If there's something you can see from your previous years at the council, it's the fact that you accepted this 25 - year rule that was placed in a wave that reduced the prospects of those who, for some reason, had gone out of school to come back and forth. We've also experienced a massive departure. In some cases, this massive drop in education in Iceland has an enormous dark side, almost causing the lives of people to change and even destroy lives. We have heard about it, and we know that there is more stress among young people and adolescents today than ever before. Now I don't know if it's right, but this is some of the experiences of these people. That's why it's very good that there's a possibility here that gives people the opportunity to promote themselves without having their heads hanging over as a regular test and demand for a academic result, a sharp claim, will result. In that respect and in most respects, I like this subject very much. I think there's a great and urgent need for this study and for this bill and I'm quite convinced that it will be revealed. It has already been evident, such as. in Flatun, where all the space is filled, how it resonates completely in that town but a few years ago. It means a lot too, I think. It was told me last night that the guy standing here was like Santa Claus, it was like he was 350 years old, he'd been everywhere. But I also have an Austjörður to live in the East, I can well sense that in many cases people of this corner here have been very good at getting into quieter environments and the melancholy natural beauty of both Flatus, saveland and Lake. I think there's a much more way to get in touch with yourself in the relaxed environment in those places. In that sense, I am immensely pleased with the bill. I am also very pleased with the way I use the word " People's School " on page 6. Seven, with permission to the highest. A president who says: ▪ People school is primarily preparing students for life, making them a versatile person, and prepared to cope with life. I think it's a good thing to do. I do not deny, however, that there is one point I miss only, and I don't know if it would have been better to keep the case because of what I feel is missing here. I feel that there's something wrong with the State's access to the business of these schools. If I heard you a minute ago, then I'd talk. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson on the possibility of developing the system for each student to follow a certain amount of money. Now I may have missed any of those regulations on the bill. I thought I had read it quite carefully, but I may have missed it. But I would have thought it was very successful, and then I'm not talking about the debt warrants or anything like that, but insurance or formalisation of how the schools could be financed. There's always one thing you're afraid of - and I've got a lot of respect for the way the guys have kept their school for years, less in Flats - and it's that this job is founded without proper operating ground being maintained. It is worse to go than at home, if they shoot at a stroke even within a few years. Maybe it'll answer to the top. So whether this is the case or whether it is the case. I have read the law of school, which is well worth it. Today, in Reykjavík or Iceland, schools are having an invitation to Iceland's Versailles School, which is part of a school fee. It is true that at least over the years, the State has contributed with each student a given amount. So I would have thought it a pleasure to examine this point in some way. It is natural that when the bill is treated, it is very possible. It'll be taken care of by the General and Education Committee. I really hope that when the case goes there, those who have come to such operations at both Flatuse and Sufficiency will share their experience and directly communicate it to the general council members where the shoe fits most. I would have thought it would be very useful, without me going to command, for I am not on the committee, and I have no right to call people for it, but I strongly recommend this. As I say, I have a very good feeling about this bill and I think that we can all agree that if this is the result of those who do not find themselves in a standard study, some number of people, find a way, then find a way, find a way, and then learn a way, it's very important. If we're trying to save someone from a worse fate by saying that this study exists, a study that is, if I can put it that way, more relaxed than traditional study, which requires a few requirements for people, I think there's a lot of work there. I've spoken to the highest. Minister at some point, it's the cycle you've been afraid of, i.e. Those who get out of school, most boys, have made bad decisions about their lives. Some of them have not returned, but others have missed much opportunity and have lost a certain part of their lives, even though many have found their way back, fortunately. I think this is a good step in that direction. Perhaps industrial and technical education and evolution are the longest in Nes shop and not that unforeseeable, it is a side effect of the nearby industrial structure in a disaster situation with which many were unhappy. It is almost certain that the plant at the hospital has made undeniably contracts with both young people who are studying in the Educorate School of Nes shops, even to some extent strengthened to study these young people, on the other hand, the young ones can go to well - paying jobs at the factory after they graduate. Then we're talking about valuable jobs, I can name electricians, I can name more industry, and also technical studies, i.e. Those who have gone further may have gone to technology or something. I think it's urgent, and this I've also talked to the Minister at some point, to make an assessment, or at least round up the powerful companies we have. I can name what's around here, like Skakki 3X, Marel, and the company that runs the biggest sliding plant in Iceland, Essa. I think there's an endless opportunity to promote industry and technology. I congratulate the Minister on this matter, and I hope there is a careful review. I also strongly hope that the price will be guaranteed or produced with ideas of how any part of it could be financed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u83	Madam President. I'm going to start my speech by celebrating this bill and wishing to be the highest. The Minister of Education and Cultures to congratulate them on their efforts. I agree with the first speaker and hope that the bill is well treated on the committee. What I was going to say was a few things, just short and sweet. I was going to say, first of all, that people's schools are not a new phenomenon, as shown in the report. It's an age-old form of an academic facility. The first community school started in Denmark in 1844, and today there are 70 of them. There have been experiments in Iceland to start such schools, but they have not been very long. A number of such experiments are attributed to the report, and now a serious attempt by this law is being made to establish a public school. The cultured college concept is based on a norse population tradition and is clear in a paper why this word cannot be used, as it were, in this bill of ◯Livation. The case has a history, as we have seen. In a Senate resolution since June 2016, the Ministry of Education and Culture was appointed to work on the bill presented here. As mentioned earlier, for many reasons I rejoice over this, and I am a great spokesman. People's schools attend sensors that are usually in their old age at 18◯25, but with some exception, both younger and older. The kids live together in dormitories, get to know each other, work together. This, of course, increases our maturity. This may be something like back in the old days, perhaps replaced by what most people used to do in the past, go to the countryside, and come back after a summer or more, of course, grow up. So I think this process, though old, is also a sign, it can be enjoyed by students, often far from big cities. Here in Iceland, such schools are already in progress, now just in Flatty and Southland. The school in Florence is exactly freedom, knowledge, and maturity, which may best describe in few words what is being done there. Students are being developed and their knowledge increased. What I'm especially happy about is what I also see in the report on people who go to a community college - and many Icelanders have gone to Denmark and Norway, you know some who have done this too; often these are kids who don't quite know where they're going in life at this age, which is common. This has helped many to correct the course, to come back, perhaps to improve their knowledge of languages, to get to know many people from different lands, and to come often and often again. They take a certain course and study and finish it. Research has shown, and the report on this bill shows that there is an increased chance that later those attending a university education will complete another education. So I'm celebrating for many reasons. The most important reason I welcome the bill is because it contains a local language. This is an opportunity for places like Sufjörður and Flatland, but also, as ideas exist at Iceland's Young Association, to start such a school on Lake Saturday in Aarnes County. There is now an old school and education center and it would be no worse if it were to be added to a school agency in this field, i.e. People's school. So I'm really happy about this. What is emphasized in such schools - or was originally - is, so I read from the report: ▪ The emphasis should be on the spoken word, discussion, and reasoning and participation of the student in all areas, thus preparing them for life. You should not be tested tired. Then students and teachers should live in the same place as it would be for students to develop skills and knowledge that benefited them in their daily life. That was the original idea. Of course, we have not come far from her today, to change. Here is also a text about the characteristics of the public university now, I'm going to read it, by permission of a president: ▪ Schools are different in education and offer different schools than traditional schools. Thus, much emphasis is placed on culture, self - culture, and active participation in students. Public schools offer a comprehensive study that is often linked to a particular theme or regional cultural and community special. People's goal is also to improve tolerance and social and social skills, including that of students living together in boarding school. This has not come far from the original idea of the People's School. I embrace this bill very much, and I hope it has a way to go through the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u84	A respectable president. How satisfying it is to hear the positive attitude of this bill, where we create legal boundaries around the public schools! It is now that, as noted in the case of several members of the council, these schools have existed and worked for quite a long time. Of course, it is true here that the former minister of education, Jónas Jónsson, was an interested man for a public school. He was himself a member of a social school in Denmark from 1906 to 1907 and was very interested in promoting everything related to public schools in Iceland. With the permission of a president, I would like to quote only from Jónas, the former president of the advance party. He says in one place that he screamed at traditional schools and their inadequacies and that they were too much tailored to the role model of the public schools, to be held. One of the things we've been discussing today is a large elimination at the high school level in Iceland. It has been observed in this discussion that those who do not find themselves in the school system may later face severe problems. That is why it is urgent that we approach the educational world according to the fact that everyone can learn and that everyone is important. I will emphasize that when we attend the education policy we've been doing - we've held over 50 meetings all over the country -- that this attitude, this approach, is one of the key reasons. That's why I felt that this bill was very important to me. I'd like to thank the members of the council to make up the former Council member of Brynhildur, the daughter of Pétursdóttir, who proposed the Senate resolution in his day. It's important to bring the bill now to cover this massive development that we see at Sufficiency and Fladis. I agree with what has been presented here: Of course it's based. This is to improve the development of these schools, and the benefits are to promote the individual, to promote key skills, democratic thinking. We are, of course, increasing diversity in our choice of study. I'd like to mention, too, that the question was made. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Sæmundsson that one of the most regretful things he had seen was to have supported the so - called 25 - year rule. It may have passed by. One of my first works was the death of the 25 - year rule. Every time we approach such a major series of subjects, such as education, we need to do so in a complete way. The teacher bill I recommended yesterday is exactly that way, i.e. that we have one permission letter that covers the basic and high school levels. One thing we can see is that when students leave school, they do not begin at high school. We've seen clues before. Hence, it is very important that we have teachers who are familiar with all these schools. In my opinion, it is important that we also have this complete thinking and the general approach to education. One example of what has been reported here in the Senate case is financing. The Ministry of Education and Culture has set up funding for the People's Schools at Flats and Wasteland. We'll see how these schools develop. It is now a bill that is even more supportive, and it is admirable to observe the development of a community school in Denmark. The day before yesterday, all the Norwegian Ministers found it. Then, according to Riisager, a Danish minister, reported that about 50% of all students in Denmark go to high school, even after they finish high school. This is so popular and helps many to find the way they want to go in life. That's -- like I understand it - mixed financing. There have also been reports of the importance of Western cooperation. I want to agree with that. I believe that if foreign students come here or we attend studies abroad, there is one of the best ways to increase the widesight of view and understanding of different cultures. This is often a highly familiar method of increasing cultural understanding. It is often said that exchange students are the best ambassadors of the country in due time. This is often a very positive experience and is designed to promote individuals. I think that now that the case goes into the General and Education Committee, it will be very interesting to see the comments that will be received. But I am deeply glad that the discussion has been good at the council and that the members of Parliament have a positive attitude toward the bill. I'd like to mention that members of Congress have been asking about the Lake Saturday and the establishment of a public school there. We've got a hearing in the Ministry, and we're weighing their pros and cons. We've seen a lot of energy and efficiency in the public schools that are operating in Iceland. This bill is a factor in supporting the work of these schools even more. I'd like to mention this in the end that when we travel education policy to the future, until 2030, we have to approach it so that we will always set up educational issues, including social discussions. I would like to be especially welcome to the cover of the news magazine today, which discusses the work of a teacher, and they are named the future dreamers. I think that's a very beautiful headline and a very good discussion of academic matters. We've also seen extensive education coverage in the Morning Press. I have to say, I think this social debate on education is such a good testimony to where we're going as a nation, that we're going to be an excellent educational system here. Of course, we work on it every day. There are three things that can be summed up that constitute an excellent educational system. That's what I do from reading the controlled study in OECD. First, it is that education is scheduled in the national language, as well as that money is precipitating at all schools and that it is a great deal for discussion, both positive development in education and better handled. Second, the teacher is very prominent in all educational shapes. The study of TIALIS also shows that the educational systems in which the teacher corresponds to the fact that his work is highly recognized in the community are the systems of education that are very effective in international comparison. It goes together. And we have to keep in mind the next step we take in the shape of education policy that the teacher is a key person. So third, - and it is also related to a discussion of a social school - is the attitude that everyone can learn and that everyone really matters. Therefore, it is so important that we take very seriously the elimination that we see at high school. We're working on it, and we're looking at why it's happening, what level of school it is, and how we can reduce the elimination to a considerable degree. We certainly stand out as far as the rest of the North countries are concerned. In a matter of what. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, the son of Sæmund, took note of the serious consequences when our young people fail to find themselves in the school system. We've been studying that, too. These young people are in far greater danger of drug abuse and of such things. The best prevention is that our young people finish high school, go to school. There, obviously, we can invest in the future. I believe that understanding is growing substantially in the community on the importance of this. A respectable president. I am very proud of this bill and thank the members of the council who have been involved in this discussion. This is a matter of progress, a long time. It's nice to tell you that when we were working on this bill, I was walking into the Ministry, and I see a woman taking a picture of Jónas frá Hrifla. And I said, Well, here is a wise man, to take a picture of Jónas's statue. Then it happened that just when we were winning this bill, Jónas's grandchildren. They had not been a member of the Ministry of Education and Culture, but as many know, he was, of course, a principal and had a residence in this house. I thought it was a very amusing coincidence that Jónas's grandchildren were traveling around the Ministry of Education and Culture when they were working a bill for a People School song.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u85	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to set up stage arts. The bill on stage art is designed to replace the code No. 138/1998, drama song. Icelandic culture is flourishing, and we Icelanders can certainly be proud of the wonderful results being enjoyed by our artists in various fields. Over two decades since the sentence of the Drama Act, there have been some changes that require a review of the law. To illustrate, the Agency's work environment has changed and the authority's responsibilities have increased as there is a great need for one total law to cover its general set of indicators. This bill aims to strengthen the setting of a national sector list and to coordinate legislation with the changes the Ministry of Education and Culture has worked on literature, art, and music. In these areas, governments have been appointed or expected to be provided with the arts that serve as ministers for counseling on the particular area. It has also been developed to promote the relevant arts with support, as well as the setting up of a foundation for the management of an office or centre that serves the relevant fund and conducts a presentation on the national and national lists. Experience has shown that this arrangement helps management, perspective, and cooperation with the funds. The bill is divided into four chapters, and the main changes included in the bill are as follows: Chapter I of the bill lays the groundwork, as well as the term "Legends of the Arts," which is used over acting, art, opera, opera performance, and other related arts, such as multimedias. Il. section of the bill is an arrangement for the National Theatre. Some changes come from current acting code. The rules for national theater managers change so that there is a greater demand for his education, as well as an order time and possibly a recommand. The vacancy should always be made available for application at the end of each order period. A national theater agreement has been changed so that professional groups of the societal artists will no longer appoint three members of the National Theatre, while two representatives will be appointed without appointment. In III. A chapter on the Icelandic dance party is discussed. The structure of this chapter parallels the chapter on the National Theatre. The bill assumes that the terms of the Icelandic dance party will be legalized for the first time. Up to now, he has worked only on the basis of regulations established by a minister, beginning with No. 878/1999 and now No. 14/2002 with initial changes. IV. will be discussed in other areas of activity than in member countries, as well as the guidelines for sectoral advice and sectoral management. The conference's list is set up by two departments, a department of professional groups, and a share of interest groups in stage arts. Then a minister is authorized to delegate a third party to the national and international presentations of the Icelandic public arts and institutions. In addition, there is provision for provisional action that states that a minister of a commission must be assigned to make a proposal for the establishment of national opera. Comments in consultation with the outline of a bill made wishes that the Icelandic opera's position would be maintained for a long time. Significant consultations have already been made. At the first development of the bill, main stakeholders were consulted, as well as the general presentation of the bill on the Ministry's Web in the fall of 2011, where comments or tips were made on the subject. At that time, stakeholders were consulted in the continued progress of the Ministry bill, taking into account various comments. In addition, the discussion has been improved, and we had a special committee to help with the construction and contract of this bill. A respectable president. The above changes aim to provide a similar framework for the field art area as for other list fields, i.e. that laws are on the basis of the government institutions that operate in the relevant fields and on fund and advice that are involved in the forwarding of the lists outside the walls of the institutions. Is it my opinion that these changes will be achieved by the approved bill? I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The General and Education Committee following the 1st.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u86	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the bill and its story. In fact, I have to admit that the first time I saw this bill, I wondered if it would be a really good idea to put laws around stage art, as great as they are. Is there any way to bind them into law? However, reading the bill has convinced me that it may be a great idea, especially since there are other factors involved. I'm just wondering, a respectable president, if we're not involved with this bill at the same time, removing other laws. If I get the bill correctly, we're actually taking over a law today about at least... The National Theater. I am very interested in the regular cleaning of the law collection and wondered if this bill should have followed the departure of any other law. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary to the 18th and maybe 19. See, about the covering centre of the field list. According to this article, a minister is authorized to establish such an institution or to cooperate, conceal it from some institution. I see in this report that they are being referred to other institutions that do other arts. The first thing I could think of was an Iceland lab and its role in presenting Icelandic culture. Could be the top. A minister only considered what he will provide for himself in these matters? Perhaps it would be a good idea to combine some of the centers that are in general about art or that would be able to perform this role in Iceland? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u87	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for discussing these matters here. First of all, I'd like to say that the law is being simplified. The Drama Act will fail with the appearance of these entire songs. Also mentioned the reason. paritaprevir Ennis Haraldsdóttir has the possibility of working with Iceland's agency and its new promotional centres. I'm very kind and obliged to inform you. A member of the Parliament that has now taken place extensive policy measures aimed at integrating the presentations centres. That work started before I took office as Minister of Education and Culture, but we're going to follow it. Then we're also working together. I can picture a good and close partnership with an Iceland lab, and I think it can promote this presentation. The main purpose of our time is to bring these laws here, thus promoting the setting of a presentation in Icelandic culture, which truly has great respect in foreign lands. So this bill is exactly a factor in promoting the creative articles in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u88	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers' answers, and perhaps especially what she spoke about at the end, i.e. to promote creative articles, which I think is very important. Our greatest chance for the future is that of innovation and creative articles. I'm very happy if the plan is to combine these presentations, since art in its nature should be flowing and not framed into any box. By dividing them from box to box, we may miss some opportunity in creative articles. I'm glad they're working on it, and they just reiterate the importance of that - because we went through the council with a bill in the Iceland lab, where they were trying to do something about it - it's all new and make sure we're not double-employing things somewhere. I'm also glad to hear that other laws fail at the same time and simply repeat that they don't forget. Later on, I wanted to ask the highest. Minister to 19th. is exposed to some kind of possibility of opera activity. The national theater is no longer assigned to keep up the opera. So, then, do we see ourselves forming a new organization that is holding the Opera? Or what does a minister envision in this regard? I don't want it to sound like I'm against opera, not whole, but maybe I'm more concerned about how it's the most efficient way to hold on to art so that they're strong and that creative articles can thrive, both in order to give us a measure of satisfaction, as well as there's a lot of opportunity for exporting and for further growth, in developing articles.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u89	A respectable president. One of the principles mentioned here is that a minister should prior to January 1, 2020, a commission to make a proposal for a national opera organization. The committee shall submit its proposal to a minister no later than the end of the year in 2020. What we're thinking here is that we want to improve the setting around this art. A very powerful field for this to be the national opera. I also realize that there will be increased cooperation with the National Theater, the Icelandic Party, the Symphony Orchestra, and then the national opera. What I believe will increase substantially in the near future is the interest of tourists in attending cultural events in Iceland. We have an excellent symphony band, we have a magnificent theater, a cool dance party. It's on a worldwide scale, and I see a little bit of it that we'll, in the future, raise it even further. There will be a great demand for these events in Iceland as well as a demand for them in a foreign field. This bill is all part of it, as I mentioned in my history and in my answers, to promote creative articles in Iceland, and to cooperate with people interested in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u90	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalize National Park and National Park. Over the past few years, we have been directly involved in the management and management of national parks and other environments in this country. Today, there are three national parks in the country. They are the National Park of the Thieves, the Lakejörður National Park, and the National Park of Snæfells. The National Park on the Thieves and the Lakejörður National Park are expelled as independent federal institutions, but the National Park of the United States belongs to the Environment Agency. Other peace-reporting areas in this country are 111, and the EEA is running and operating the Agency as well as other projects on the basis of nature protection laws. Thus, there are three government agencies that work on comparable topics in the management of natural protection areas. There has been a significant change in their activities as a result of the growth of tourists and major pressures on the major natural spheres of the country, which have called to help protect the areas from rivers and to attack the multiplicity of infrastructure in these areas. The need for increased coordination and more support has also been highlighted in similar work being carried out within the three institutions. For road reference to travel services published by the Directorates and Neons Office and tourism Association in 2015, there is also 2015. proposed to be national parks, other peaceful territory, and national groups, rather than to hear in the present three institutions. At the request of the current Environment and Resource Minister, a report of the National Park Organization was submitted on July 3, 2017. The purpose of the project was to review recent studies on future environmental protection, national parks, and peace-lit areas and to reflect them. the discussion that has been conducted by the Environment and Resource Ministry on the Ministry's Organization in this area. On the basis of these observations, the report provides suggestions on the structure and structure of the Agency that would handle these issues as a whole. The report was consulted on the contract of this bill. In August 2017, the current Environment and Resource Minister appointed a team to be assigned to work on a national parkal bill. The task force served as representatives of the Environment and Resource Ministry who conducted the work of the group, representatives of the National Park on the Þingu, Lake Light National Park, the EEA, and the Union of Iceland. The staff returned the proposal for a bill on February 9, 2018. Along with the work group, two meetings were held with stakeholders in which the main subject of the bill was introduced and sought out the opinions of the relevant parties. The first meeting was December 19, 2017, which met a large group of representatives of nature protection organizations, outdoor parties, and tourism. The second meeting was held on January 5, 2018, with representatives of the National Guard. The processing of this bill made several adjustments to the bill produced by the work group. It should be noted that legal requirements for the so - called district Council were added, including in order to increase the survival and impact of rural communities, environmental organizations and stakeholders on decision-making within the declared areas of peace, in line with national parks. Changes were made in arrangements for the administration of the national park on the United Nations, but it is suggested that a government, as in the other two national parks, be organized. The Parliamentary Committee, on the other hand, will remain in existence but with a changed role that focuses primarily on the special status of the Parliament as an ancient assembly. The bill was advertised in the presentation of the Council of Management Board on July 27, 2018, and was postponed for the September 5th of that year. During the introduction period, I had seven introductions in the country that represented my colleagues, nature - protection organizations, outdoor parties, and tourism in those areas. The meeting was well attended by another hundred people, who were held in the Valley of Burd and in Hólmavík, Akureyri, Eglís, Cape of the Hornfjord, Hvosfield, and Hafnarfjörður. At the same time, there was a British Global Committee, where the Committee was introduced the bill and also with the National or other non-violent national planning committee. In addition, there was a special meeting with the EEA's staff, the Waterland National Park and the National Park on the Þingles. The Ministry received a total of 48 reviews about the bill. The changes made by the Ministry are explained on the basis of the above statements in chapter V of the bill, where the discussion will be discussed. A respectable president. I'd like to now review key reasons why there is an urgent way of uniting the oversight and management of all regions of the country, as well as other projects related to nature protection into one institution. As all of us know, Iceland is governed by a unique nature and its protection and sustainable use of important matters from the government. The present nature protection system is on many sides, and it is a major reason for integrating, strengthening, and strengthening them by uniting into one organization of tasks now under three related institutions. Natural phenomena and beauty have often been taken as self - reported objects. With the growing stream of tourists, the understanding of the country has increased with the depth of tangible value of having access to Iceland's nature, as the majority of our foreign visitors are carrying because they are visiting Iceland just because of the nature of the country's environment. At the same time, it becomes increasingly evident that individual areas or areas that are emotionally important to the nation and economically could be affected. This has resulted in a growing understanding of the fact that the less - touched nature of the land is listed as being limited, more important, to consider and maintain before future generations. They give new emphasis on how nature must be protected and used in a way that itself enjoys the doubt. Thus, the economic impacts of the peace- informed region have been specifically examined, and in December 2018 a report published by the National Institute of Economics, which clearly showed the positive effects of a peaceful region on the production and employment of the next environment. Of the 12 areas studied, each dollar in the region returns 23 times to the population, and part of it remains in the country. We face the challenge of nature's protection and innovations, so it is important that there be a work that specializes in the management and management of national parks and nature environments, with emphasis on the interaction of protection and sustainable innovation. These include the following challenges: 1st Natural and natural phenomena are a vital part of Iceland's culture and national awareness. 2. Access to the unique and spectacular nature of the land is becoming increasingly desirable among the peoples and foreign tourists. 3. National parks and nature reservations are among the most widespread tourist positions, and there are many opportunities for employment and valuables to be used so as not to be damaged. 4. The number of tourists has been multiplied by the pressures on sensitive places and areas of nature. 5. A number of places in Iceland are under a great deal of pressure, requiring a much more targeted and more organized response from the government. It is important that the Agency operates large and wide tasks around the country and ensures nuclear functions that can follow the development to the future. This development will be characterised by the growth of these areas and increased emphasis on the protection of concomitant sustainable use that can be maintained within protected areas, such as sustainable bait, fishing, outdoors, recovery and tourism. What, then, is the goal of the bill? 1st Simplifying and efficiency, in which all units have explained the role and responsibility and emphasis on aspects involved in the management and management of the affected areas, such as infrastructure, license, protection and monitoring, financing and security. 2. Strengthen the already existing units to meet challenging challenges. 3. A common form of territory with consistent presentation and communication on the outside. 4. Have a perspective in one place and provide a wide range of consistent policy-making in the long term. 5. The most efficient business venture, knowledge, ability, resources, resources, and projects to make the most possible use of public funds. A respectable president. As I began with, the oversight and management of national parks and peaceful areas on the hands of three institutions today is the case. For this reason, I would like to explain the different administrative arrangements in those areas. The National Park on the Þingra is Iceland's oldest National Park, which was founded at the beginning of 1930 C.E., with a law on the Peace of the Þingalvala, No. 59/1928. Initially, the park reached only the place on the roof of the Þingum and reached a height of about 40 miles [40 km]. The park was expanded by law in 2004 and is now 2,337 miles2. The region is declared peaceful as the site of the nation's sanctuary and has enormous value in cultural and historical respects. However, there are also natural wonders on a global scale in which the geologic history and ecosystems of the Lakes form a unique unit. The National Park on the Matrix is an independent government agency and will be ruled by a Þingalval committee, appointed by seven members of the General Assembly in the beginning of each terms. The House of Congress then hires national guard for the National Park. In 2008, a delicacy park was created on the basis of a law on Lake Earth. It covers all the seabeds and large areas near it, including the two parks already in the Tue and the glaciers. Today, the park saves about 14% of Iceland's area, over 14,100 km2, including the largest national parks in Europe. The park's territory is unique from natural protection grounds, whether viewed in Iceland or worldwide, and is the main theme of the match between fire and ice and the geodynamic effects of Lake Bay. An important step was taken in the administration of national parks here. The park is an independent government institution, but it is based on a controlled system where rural and social organizations are directly involved in government and regional policies. So the strategy is in the hands of the locals. With the management of the Agency and the management of Lake Earth-wide parks, special government is organized by a minister. It has seven agents in it, i.e. Chairman of the national park, one representative of the environmental organization and two representatives appointed by a minister without a form of appointment. There is an outdoor organization and a tourist organisation that has an audience to find a government. At that time, the Ministers also appoint the Commissioner for the Waterland National Park to propose and care for the national park's daily affairs. The park is divided into four zones run as a special unit to the responsibility of national parks, as well as its regional Council for each area. In each regional council, six representatives are designated by the rural administrations of the member countries in the affected sector, travel groups in the area of the region, outdoor organizations, and environmental organisations. Regional Council is a national park guard for counselling, overseeing a proposal to conduct a management and protection programme for the management sector and to agree with a proposal to implement a programme for the regions. It seems that the selected administration system of the Waterland Nation has contributed to a greater agreement on its management and control and provided extensive support at home with policy-making decisions made within the park. The third national park is the national park of Snæfellshll, established in June 2001. The purpose of the park's establishment was to protect the unique nature of the region and the remarkable memory of history. The park is about 70 miles [270 km]. The EEA is running the park at the end of seven coldness. Now he is the only national park founded on the general authority of nature protection laws, not by specialties like the other two. In every national park founded under nature protection law, the National Park Guard is an employee of the EEA. In accordance with a management and protection programme, a national parkkeeper will be provided for education and follow-up. A minister is under the laws on nature protection allowed to establish national bodies, including local authorities, institutions, and after events of a member society in the field of nature protection and tourism. The role of the National Park Council is merely a adviser and does not have the formal access to national governance, as is true of the Þingalval Committee and the administration of the Sea of Blue National Park. The Advisory Committee of the Similar National Park is active for the National Park of Snæfells, and is appointed to representatives of the EEA, the Snæfells Association, the Minja Agency of Iceland, and the town of Snowfalls. In addition to these three national parks, the EEA oversees 111 non-violent sites on the basis of laws on nature protection. As I've traced, the oversight and control of the environment in Iceland are distributed today, and various rules apply to the provision and authority of the individual institutions for the management of areas. At that time, local society, public institutions, free partners, and others vary according to the institution. With the bill, the plan is to set up a new organisation and combine with it projects that have been on the hands of the three strains, i.e. The work of the Waterland National Park, the National Park on the Þingles, and the EEA's section on nature protection issues. Thus the number of public institutions would be reduced, and one agency would promote national parks and non-violent regions in place of three present. A National Park Institute is designed to have a complete perspective and to shape a global organization and shape the appearance of national parks and nature reservations and to build up essential knowledge and infrastructure in order to cultivate this role in line with natural protection goals. The National Institutes of National Park organise is a focus on the distribution and survival of the members of the rural community in the management and development of these areas. The power distribution is important to nature protection, as Lake Earth has shown. The bill expects to establish, in general, the framework established by the management of the Agency, where the state and community share in the administration of the Agency. There will also be the speciality of the Þingvagal peoples. Inevitably, though, there will be some change in national parks where they will be expected to become part of one institution with a director. Nevertheless, the clear legal and targeted access to administration and districts will be protected from policy development and planning that their power and impact remain largely unchanged and that policy-making decisions will be made at home in the province. The director of the National Park Institute is responsible for the minister. It is based on the fact that the responsibility of directors is the same as that of other presidents of the State in accordance with the laws on the rights and duties of the servants of the State. National Institutes of National Park are expected to promote professional, central financial and sectoral activities as well as professional knowledge of the preparation and plan of action and protection. The central work of National Park also has the purpose to coordinate and ensure full perspective and to follow up on established policies and programmes. I can see that the services of the National Institutes of National Park in the whole country will be humanised experts in environmental protection areas as well as individuals who are engaged in the main central activities of the Agency. Now I want to explain to the Agency's administrative system on which the bill is based, but it's discussed in III. section of the bill. As I have mentioned before in the bill, the distribution and introduction of the members of the rural community are emphasised on the development of peace-lit areas. It is suggested that a so - called district council be established in parts of the country that at the same time have the place for regional levels within the bounds of Lakejörbjörður Park. It is also expected to ensure the special status of the Þingalva and its relation to the National Park at the General Assembly, with the continuing work of the Þingalde committee and the fulfilling and policy-making of roles, while the majority of the daily districts are moving to governments and national parks. This will also change the work of national parks where they are expected to be part of a single agency under the management board, but no special government is expected for the whole organization. With a clear legal frame and a more targeted approach to policy development, planning and other decision making, policies and decision making are looking for their power, and their impact remains largely unchanged on the marine habitat. With regard to the National Park of Snæfells, there is now a consulting committee that has no formal authority. By order of the government of that park, the presence of fellow rurals and others who appoint representatives in the management and authority of that park will be far superior to what is present in Lakeh earth's park. With regard to the National Park on the Þingrells, the council, the environmental organization, the outdoor organizations, and the tourism services will be in harmony with the national parks. IV. a section of the bill is a set of national governance and protection plans, such as his main administration tool. The bill contains such a strategy, and the terms are comparable to those of such a program in the Lake Earth today. In the case of Lakehjörður Park, the heads of national parks and district council offer proposals for such introduction programs. The national administration and protection programme is confirmed by a minister, but it is important to note that a minister is not authorized to make changes in the programme unless he violates the laws or regulations for the national park. Its contents, therefore, are binding to a minister who is based on the established administrative arrangements. The law is expected to go into effect on January 1, 2020. It is requested that the director of the Agency be authorized for the implementation of the law to prepare a new agency in consultation with a minister. At the same time, it is specifically required that the law's execution be granted to appoint the districts, national parks and the Constitutional Committee. These documents are necessary for the Agency to operate on January 1. I'd like to state that a print error has infiltrated Article 8. the bill in which the falsely referred to Article 6. but the reference should be to Article 5. Is it a good thing to do? A respectable president. I've traced this bill's main subject and suggested that the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u91	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of history on bill to legalize National Park and National Park. I have a specific warning about this situation, even though I agree completely that we need to improve the management and management of national parks and nature reservations. My reserves turn even. that, as matters are set up in the bill, I don't feel that distribution control and independence of possible tasks are sufficiently clear and not clear whether this will be a central institution or the real power distribution as I would consider desirable. Yet, the bill is set up in a highly complex system of governments and districts. Therefore, I would like to ask myself, " Is it possible to make a special examination of this procedure, what the minister's vision of it is? ' Similarly, I wondered, " Is the bill playing with nature protection laws and whether there is any reason to look at it with a view to not repeating nature protection laws in the National Park Act? ' Would it be reasonable that this bill was primarily a guide in the management, management and management of national parks and nature protection areas, but that laws on protecting nature and culture were found in other laws as well as regulations and methodologies for peace and protection?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u92	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Therefore, there is an answer to governments and district councils to the thought of having districts is especially to give the locals and organisations of the various stakeholders the opportunity to have more control of all natural resources. The question here is, Could it be simply that the governments of national parks, which were certainly in the districts, could be the same as district governments? I think it might be a good idea to look at such simple ones, and I think it would be wise to see if that would be an improvement. The reason that this was presented in this way, so I explained, was to raise the national parks, as it were, a little more, and to give them greater significance because they have a special status. I'll bet you can look at it. Regarding interaction with nature protection laws, the Ministry's assessment was that way, based on legal reasons. If the committee is able to simplify it, of course we'll check with you at the Ministry. Regarding cultural memory, it is mentioned at 25. The bill that cultural factors are in accordance with laws on culture, No. 80/2012, this is specifically stated.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u93	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. The last thing a minister brought in is perhaps the reason I wondered about this, i.e. why the memory protection can be a special protection, not a nature protection. I think there's something that we on the Committee really need to review. As I originally established, I believe it is important to find a methodology to cooperate with the management and use of a country that we would like to protect in some way. This cooperation must be centered on traditional crops, tourism, and possibly new fishing skills, and something new we do not now know, and we need to find methodology to do so. Do we may need more time to develop the discussion about methodology? Then I'm not necessarily referring here at the General or in the administration but in cooperation with all partners. And how do we do that? Do we do this by having guests before the committee, or do we need to work on it in other places? Then there are some factors in the bill that need to be addressed immediately and that have been approved in the bill, e.g. To hire a director who prepares the taking of the law, but then we come to the same thing. How can we prepare individuals and communities and volunteers who are already fulfilling even important roles in these areas?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u94	A respectable president. Regarding the development of the conversation and the cooperation of what we may be able to call use, we have a natural wealth of experience from the national parks and from all the peaceful regions. We can go back to 1930 with a Third Law National Park. From an arrangement such as what we're focusing on in this bill, we have basically over ten years of experience from a Lakesland Park, where we have the regional Council, which we can call a district council in this bill and have given well, even when you hear EEA personnel and the Lake cold nation compare their books, e.g. the management and protection plans, tell the workers of the Waterland National Park that it makes the management and protection programme better to get everyone to the table right at the start. That's why I think we have a lot of experience, and there's already been a lot of conversation and cooperation between these key parties as well. A senator mentions. Of course, a number of groups of important tasks needed for such an institution, such as the institutions available today, to continue talking to, to do, and to work with. But I don't think it's in itself that there's anything to wait for us to go looking at these issues under one hat in cooperation with state and rural society, and it's better to approach all these groups from one place than from many as it is today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u95	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Environment Minister for his history earlier. The bill we discuss here, the institution of National Park, is, in many ways, both interesting and good, but I have some comments to do so. First of all, I have, like, the highest. The minister is aware of certain doubts about the right to establish a single national park system that covers all the national parks. I'm on our own that we should have national parks framed and that more than the official people can set up national parks and run national parks, not encourage private peoples to run national parks, as well as other ruralities, as they will follow specific guidelines in those areas and meet specific requirements and meet specific obligations. I also have serious comments to the idea of overthrowing the National Park on the Matrix under there. If at any time this National Park is to be founded, established, and controlled by all national parks in Iceland, I think it is the right and related to history and our culture, and because of the association of this meeting with the National Park on the Globe to keep it completely out of the Agency. So I aim and direct the committee to take good care of it. I feel that the evidence given to me is that I can cross with the National Park under this institution not in this way. I think I'll at least remember. does not support the bill in that way. However, I agree with the goals set for the establishment of national parks and found in Numbers. ..... to protect nature and national parks, allow the public to get to know and enjoy nature, facilitate access, contribute to research, strive to promote society, etc. You see, I'm one of the people who's been aware of it, and I think more and more people are doing it, that nature protection in itself can be more exploitable and therefore is a major economic issue for us Icelanders. Of course, we know that nature has lived for much of the interest we have enjoyed in the form of a vast number of tourists. I think it's remarkable to look at the small park of Snæfells. According to a 2007 Masterbook study, the economic impact of the National Park is at the end of the seven cold. 3.9 billion. Of these, 955 million come from direct sales, income tax, and 900 million come from the bones of taxes at the loss of the visitors who enter the park. This shows that building national parks can be wise economic and professional. That's why I think it would be wise for us to take a look at it, or at least look at it. Whether it would be necessary to establish a general framework for national parks and allow more people than the government or public access to it. I'd like to contribute to the community's doing that. I'd also like privates to have the opportunity to set up specific conditions for doing so. I'm not going to extend this discussion for the time being. I wanted to share these views with the 1st. before the bill goes to the committee. But I specifically refer to the committee to keep the National Park in the fields outside that institution, if it does happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u96	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for history and for conducting this case. I consider the matter and its goals very important, and I look forward to dealing with both this discussion and the task at hand. Environmental and Transport Committee. I agree with what. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, who mentioned earlier what national parks, peaceful areas and nature protection can be important to us. If we succeed, we're creating a resource, and then we can say that there's a good resource here for the entire nation's benefit. That's why this matter is very important. I agree with all the objectives of the situation. We need to coordinate and get clear - motion projects around our peace - related territory, especially in order to get as many as possible with us on this project, the nature protection project, to share in this building of local territory. That is why it is so important that here, to create administration, this setting, so that the people in the region that has lived in this country, build and protect all their lives, still feel the calling to do the territory and work there. There's something you need to contribute. We need to see an opportunity to build some sort of activity around this thing to show the importance of nature protection, to have some value for us, the unquenchable nature we have here, clean and beautiful - that could be followed for a long time. Then it's important that the system is a little clear and not too much. There must be a perfectly clear line, and there must not be too many necks of bottle. People just need to follow clear rules. There must be rules of rules, but they need to be clear, and people need to know in advance how to behave in order to participate and how to succeed. If all of this works out well, we'll be asked by rural society to set more ground for peace in the national parks. Privates will pray to be included in the national parks and to have their territory within them. Then all will strive to do so. That's why the export is important. Then we need to look deeply at the experience we have of the Lake Bayside Park, the Snowball and Þingalval Park. There have been different challenges and challenges, and the situation varies from place to place. That's why I'd like to have said here that I'm a little afraid that we'll be overindulging things so that it'll be one institution with one manager, and then there'll be some regional authority with a very different authority. Some have the authority, others become advisers, possibly with a different connection or recruitment relationship, depending on how the power distribution is - because it is different in a Lakewater nation park than in a e.g. Both the Snæfells Seven cold and the Þingalva peoples, and then the peace-lit districts. We need to make sure that these things are clear, too, so that people back home in the district don't feel that they're some government agency that just handles this so that the responsibility of the people is gone and their calling, it's just: 'They've taken over our work.' Many people feel that the Constitution committee, for example, has been a bit blundering, but it is still very clear, and there are very clear rules. The United States of America has been successful in protecting the United States. They're on a world calendar. Þingvall arrives each year at more than one and a half million tourists. All problems have been solved. Before we make some adjustments, we need to think that there will be no stability on the United States Hall, not at all. It's just not supposed to happen. Then I'd also like to say at the same time that we must bear in mind that the only real link Þingvall has to do with the Council of the United Nations is the origin of the Allied Council, the place of the People - a Parliamentary Committee elected by the Council. We need to think about it very carefully if we are going to make some adjustments and where they will lead us, that we are not disturbing the people's place of worship and how successful they have been. Ten years of experience with Lake Earth has developed a lot. He's come, I'd say, in a much better way now. The park is closer to being more sustainable, and its structure is more successful. Government arrangements have been increasing, and in many respects they are exemplary. We must not interfere with that work. We need to go through all of this very well. The Environment and Transport Committee, how this happens and how we can use the local resources, both professional and farm owners, and rural groups, in order to build up this work so that we can achieve the objective of all of this together. This may be what needs to be caught too. What I want to mention is that the most important, as the situation is today, where we have three national parks, 111 national parks, is that instead of being built up some service which can be called support service, which all the parks have to do, we do not need to use in their daily affairs but need at any point to have access, we should first start with the focus of our ability to build up this central support service which helps us to manage and protect them so that they are put forward in a comparable way in all the peace-lit areas and in the Middle East, i.e. The implementation of the employment policy, which is of utmost importance to those who are going to work with the national parks, that these are all very clear in the plays, how we're going to divide the money we have for the landkeeping so that not one area will be left behind and we'll be able to control it by stress. It's this kind of central, and it may not be possible to build up locally, but it's important that we put the focus on how we get a system and keep out of this 111 peace - declared territory. I think that's what we're most in the world at all. And so is the administration. Somehow we need to be sure in all of these areas - because the lakeland nation's park will be far more large and when and if the central highland park comes, it will be even larger - a balance between these three national parks and the restless areas within the Agency. There's something else I want to come on. I've been talking most about the business, the administration and how we're ensuring everyone's entrance. That's what the law laws are, like what they're doing. paritaprevir Dr. Anna Sævarsdóttir was wondering, too, if we're taking e.g. too much from nature protection laws and other legislation into these legislations and whether we can use only the legislation we now have, such as nature protection legislation and cultural background and so forth. That's when I'm thinking 9. the bill on ownership and whether the sources we have in current environmental protection laws are not enough and what this exactly adds. It's just something that we need to talk about on the committee and see how it develops. It just has to be clear, so the rules of play are done and we don't make bottle necks. If all of this works for us, we're about to create a huge, powerful resource in our community. We need to make good use of that experience, making sure that we are not disturbing what has been done but are doing it even better. The most important thing is to reach out to this 111 peace-installed territory. That's why I'm celebrating the district Council and how we're going to reach them and whether we can somehow strengthen them and get them started. You don't have to build a central supportive service at four places, three national parks, and in the peace-lit districts if we think it's a single place, but you have to be a little strong. In the future, if we succeed in this central supportive service, we could let it work for all the land uses. That's when I'm talking about deforestation, agriculture, and other things to do. Here we have a lot of exciting topics that I can't wait to deal with, but I'd like to mention these speculations and maybe a warning I've been coming on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u97	Mr. President. We'll discuss a new Act on National Park and a significant change in environmental institutions. I would like to briefly contribute my vision of important things that I feel are the core of the important bill that I support in the foundation and celebrate and, in fact, consider as the first step in longer development in the management of the environment in Iceland. I'm going to mention, like, eight, nine things that I think are the core of the bill. This is first of all the necessary coordination at the highest level. The Environment Minister explained and focused on transparency and stability in all management and more precise processes than is currently available. All of us agree that they are quite complex when we look at these three different national parks and the peaceful regions. Second, it is urgent that in three national parks, different ways of ruling are largely eliminated. As was also seen in the highest range. Environment Minister has one authority and another government appointed to very busy members and then one under the EEA's hat. It follows that the mechanism of governance in this way counteracts what I mentioned earlier, which is transparent and clear. Then one organization of national parks is to unite and control them and peaceful areas. This prevents many of the double acts or the trident. We also have a simple administration not only in a certain way but also in order to save and make it more useful to the national parks, and we don't have to 10 who are. Fourth, we need to define new efficient processes. We can look at some of them in other nations, but after all, we define our new effective ways in the light of local circumstances. But I am convinced that they exist in many other places, either in the same place or in the same way. They are designed to make decisions easier and easier to work evenly and environmentally with one hand. Fifth, I'd like to activate the district council in all three national parks, but not just one, in Lake Bay alone for a while, by promoting the cooperation of state, rural society, and the public - and I repeat the public - of national parks and reservations throughout the country. There is no denying that there is an obvious benefit. It's very interesting to think, " Yes, there's a district council in Lake Bay because it's so big, but because it's the lowest nation on Earth, it doesn't need a district council. Of course he does. Of course, even fewer communities are in exactly the same position as rural areas around Lake glacier. Then we come to a bit of a difficult question or a difficult matter, which is a link between the National Park on the Þingles and the Generals. I'm chairman of the House. I have a little experience with a job on the Parliamentary Committee. I don't object to doing two things, i.e. to hold in the most important part of the park's linking to the Congress of Congress, because it's not only an old tradition but also a time of time, and has a right to the national park, but at the same time changing the role of the Þingalvala committee by setting aside several roles in daily operations, roles in exports and reforms in infrastructures, implementations in the way of business, I'm not talking about employment policy, but whether it can open the shop at this site or not. I'm not referring to buying a summer farm in the National Park country, etc., but in cooperation with the Committee and the national administrations of the National Park, which is the most important issues, the policy and the close communications that must exist between the General and the national administration of the park, in terms of the main area of the Parliament and its territory. I'm not afraid that these ties will break down with the reforms, I call the reforms, the bill is, and the chalices that will be partly taken from the Parliamentary Committee, who pretend to be good if she meets every other week for an hour and a half. It follows that with increasing activity in the park, the cup is getting too heavy. I'd also like to mention, in general, the introduction of employment policy, and not only professional policy in all the national parks, but also research on the tolerability and decision to make access controls in all the national parks. So it's compatible, all of them. I've reached seven teams. It is the claim that national parks and reservations are keys to the sustainable use of resources in the whole country. They are keys to successful tourism, keys to the maintenance of organic diversity, and therefore need to have a coordinated administration, coordinated policy and coordinated daily operations. This must always be a concordance. At the latest, we know that national parks, or one national park, I don't know exactly how it will be organized, perhaps in several areas, and natural protection areas will increase in the country. I want them especially pointing to the ocean around Iceland. We have discussed at the Council that it is important to increase the number of natural protection areas at sea. Despite the differing views I have heard from three o'clock high. I believe that, Mr. President, it is very important that we unite on the contrary, to be successful in these matters. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason thought this to be an exciting task, and I can say, it's exciting with a large staff. I'm sure that's what I'm gonna do. The Environment and Transport Committee will work well, not only to progress, but also to the support of this important bill for its share.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u98	Mr. President. I am somewhat surprised by the emphasis in the talk each time. Senator and chairman of the Þingalval Committee, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson. He calls for the cup that is responsible for the National Park on the behalf of Generalis, taken from members of the council, working on the barn, as he says. I've had some experience with that, was the head of this fine committee for four years. True, it was not always easy to reach an agreement about all things, but it was not the hardest thing to bring up a meeting because everyone in the area was usually here if necessary. I'm looking at this board of administration, which is not presented as simple and to enhance efficiency, but as I see here one institution with director, an unnamed number of districts at the discretion of the Minister of Ministers, a special administration of nature protection areas, including the management of the Þingal and also the Management of the Parliamentary Board, a management of the Seasland Park and a government of the Snake National Park, and so expected, if a new national park is formed, control over them. That's not what I call simple, topv. Minister. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he cannot see the danger of dividing the affairs of the Parliament into two ways that are expected here. I see a danger in the fact that there can be conflict, both role and working, as well as perhaps least financing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u99	Mr. President. I thought I had been clear enough in my case. I was not complaining that we had this cup. I was complaining that it was too heavy. Why was I doing that? This is because we spend our time on the Þingvall Committee to use machines on whether or not to buy the cabin X and pass through paper, we need to answer whether or not to switch septics into certain places or so. What happens, if this bill becomes legal, is that it disappears from the Constitutional Committee. And what remains, what. Senator? There will be policies where the Parliamentary Committee has so much right that it cannot be approved, e.g. without the approval of the Parliamentary Committee. We will review each year's budgets. We'll be in charge of the People's Weekend. There's not going to be anything going on at the Parliament's weekend without the existence of the Parliamentary Committee, which says yes. Let's be clear on what I was talking about. The other, seeing dangers in taking part of those members of the Constitution committee and leaving what is really important, I just feel like strengthening the Parliamentary Committee and not the other way around.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u100	Mr. President. I'll take an appeal. The senator, who gave him and gives him the idea that he would want to lose his job from a Senate committee and not get rid of himself or any other senator with the responsibilities of serving as a member of the Parliament on the behalf of the Generals. When I looked through this bill, I see that the plan has been turned away from the plan to put a catacomb into an institution like this and wipe out mostly the characteristics of the government structure and the laws that govern it, to wipe it out mostly as originally planned when this case was first proposed. I think it may have been 2011 or so. It's been gone ever since. Here are very important regulations from the law on the Law of the Þingalva National Park and because of it. A member of the United States made it clear that the National Park on the Þingum is fully abated with the law on vacation and renting property under a vacation home. This is a very important thing. How important it is to set a sunset sun on a vacation site in the United States Park, one of the available projects! I think this project would be better handled by one board of Congress, but not by two administrations and district councils, as well as a special institution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u101	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. However, because we are still talking about the Þingalva and the Þingalva committee, it is completely in my mind that if this continues to be done, it will continue to have authority in a certain way over this national park, with some being called for counseling, in part of which it has no authority. We've just agreed to a policy plan, a policy file let's say, with a basic policy on the summer farms, that the project will continue to work on the gradual finality of these weights to the whole section of the park. We are now working a basic employment policy in the National Park. There is a core policy policy on sustainability in this policy policy. There's a basic policy on how nothing should be based on the trees any more, everything downhill to the west. And there is also a basic policy of consultation with rural communities and more than that, and more than that, the public whose natural rights are as well. I reiterate that there are a number of things to discuss rather than a clear relationship between the future National Park and the Constitution Committee because it is quite clear according to the bill on how the roles will be changed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u102	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize National Parks and National Parks. I have some comments and I'm going to review the major ones, but not all of them are listed at all. First, I'm going to state that there are a lot of things in this bill that I support in my mind. I support national park goals. I support the protection of the nature of these areas. I support it to protect the story. I support the protection of landscapes, biodiversity, earth formations, and cultures. Of course I do. I support the idea of allowing people to get to know and enjoy nature, culture, and history of these areas. I support the research and education of people in these areas, increasing understanding of the areas and their special status, and, of course, I also support the growth of the communities in these areas, thus building up and working on them. And a number of other excellent laws can be found in this bill, which is an improvement. Of course, a growing number of tourists must be kept tight in their arms and protected. All of that is worth the effort. I'm going to start by wearing something that we'll just call compulsive, i.e. To set up new institutions, to set up new institutions. It's an obsession that's been here a long time. Sometime independents said, "Go away! This was part of the struggle. But the stall grows and grows, especially in the capital area. There's nothing to be said about that. There are constantly new ideas about new institutions, especially in the capital area. You don't know until you've started a new organization, you can't even count them out, because it happens so fast and so fast it disappears from your mind. But now I remember an Iceland lab, she was approved here last year. It's a huge institution. There's a plan to set up a national fund. Then it's probably gonna take control of that institution. And last night, a bill of restaurants and lodgings was recommended to oversee these accommodations, dormitories, would be in the hands of one businessman. There has been a prior surveillance by the businessman in the capital area. I assume, then, that because of the experience that has been collected there, the surveillance will be in his hands and will be taken out of the hands of the rest of the districts who are expected to conduct this patrol on the land. There's eight of them, except for this one. It is constantly being drawn to the capital and to the capital area of work and institutions and to create new institutions. It would be informative, Mr. President, to make a detailed summary of how many institutions, funds, committees, and advice are located in the capital. Of course, it's all very necessary, but I mention it because there can be no one institution left in the country, not one institution, without an autopsy and feeling that it and it must be laid down. There can't be anything out of the country at all, then there are ideas of putting it down. Dates in this subject are the county office. It was 27 years ago. They've been down to nine. All right, let's leave it alone. What, though, are the latest ideas? To reduce them further and place them all in the capital area. These are the latest ideas of the Independence Party - and they've already laid down - I don't mean to say it so that it's laid down, but the county man of the Western Islands, i.e. The person, who is no longer located there, was brought up to Selephos, and he serves as an office in the Western Islands, a subsidiary branch from Selephoss today. What I'm talking about, and what I'm feeling is that there can't be anything left out in the country, there are ideas just as hard as putting down the Agency, putting together the work, and putting it down, reducing financial resources until institutions become self-involved and self-destructing. That's what I'm looking for. Here's another institution, and that's why I'm talking about it in that context. I could talk about this for a long time. Then I'm going to mention a little bit of the authority of the agency, spend on it a short time, as I've sometimes done before. Under this National Park agency, there is to be a source of authority, surveillance clearances, crime clearances of 500,000 U.S., that will qualify as the anti-culture unit, i.e. By means of an invitation, as stated in the 37th chapter of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania, we have the authority to collect them. Of course, the authority of the Agency, as defined in Article 38. The committee has to review what record should be in the hands of such an institution. After reading this one time, I'd say that a little police force was about to be put into the hands of the employees, I'd think about it here. I haven't formed a thought - provoking opinion of this, but I'll put a question mark on this. Police authority is in the hands of the police. Then there's some special currency warrants that I'd like to draw attention to, too. Then I was going to talk about the system being set up with the National Park Institute. I'd like to say a few words about that. I think it's a complicated system. Presidential Councils, more than one, i.e. one district Council in each part of the country or one area of the country. I don't know how many of those advice would be, but they'd be at least one According to Article 12. It's the National Parks, now three. There may be more of them. Over them is the government and national parks directed by a national park guard who has employees in these governments, both the districts and the national administrations, and the complex network of stakeholders comes to these governments. Then there is another region called nature protection. There are also some governments. It's all over the National Park. But this is not so simple because, of course, the National Institute of National Park serves as a minister of the environment. I think it's a complicated system. Sometime they said that the Secret Bank was a drawer in the Ministry. I'd like to think, "Is National Park a drawer today at the Environment Ministry?" Isn't it? If we simplify it a little, then National Park isn't really a drawer at the Ministry. Environment Minister? Yes, it is. Thus, a minister has authority over the national parks, as this institution is supposed to be. In that sense they are moving the drawer and creating an institution out of it. The next thing I was going to mention is the Capitol. Whether I'm happy or not about being placed under a National Park National Park or not, maybe I'm not going to make a complete statement. It's two-way. It is assumed in the law that the Parliamentary Committee will continue to exist. It will only be simplified, its numbers will be reduced, and it will be a bit of a review of the National Park on the Þinga. You take more care of her role in the 21st. par.: The role of the Þingalval Committee is to give a review of the national park's affairs, to give a review of the proposal for a year's plan, to be the head of the National Park and National Park for consultation, to discuss other matters relating to the seminary and the privacy of the territory. It's thoughtless as a sort of a time stamp, I think. Then I just ask, Is there any need for a Senate Committee if these laws become reality? Is there any need for a Parliamentary Committee? Now I take it from the other side, i.e. About Field. Of course, the Senate is closely related to the legislation meeting. For nearly 1,100 years, the Parliament fields have been a legal field in this country. It's been 11 years until we celebrate the 1100th birthday of the Generals. Since this time, from 950, there have been a wide link between local and national legislation for almost 1100 years. The bond is historical and cultural, but not enough, on the Matrix. It is alive and alive. There's a great archeology. Much of these are linked to the General Assembly and the legislation. Much of the archeological protection is closely linked. Of course, as I sit on the Þingvall Committee, I'm sorry that this national park is taken away from the Committee and the Committee is made up of some sort of narrative or company of clocks for the park. I'm not afraid we're going to lose control in the area or we're going into a mess, I'm just scared of this connection. I'd also like to point out that this connection has been good. The work of the Committee and the links to the Council has made this much easier. All work has been much easier, larger bioavailability, e.g. that capital, much better access, very easy and short channels to carry out and do whatever comes into mind on the Matrix. It doesn't take much letters to write. This bill may change. Finally, just at the end, I'm going to enter the Constitution Committee. I don't see anything out of my head, Mr. President, although the Constitution Committee occasionally does, maybe every two months, take the premiums at some place. The matter is worked up in our hands by lawyers, and we simply study the matter, get the lawyer's opinion, and make a decision. It's not a big deal. It's one and a half hours every two weeks. Although the Chairman may contribute more than the members of the committee, that is not much of a job.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u103	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Congress members for a good discussion on this important matter. I think it can be summed up as if here we all agree with the objectives of the bill and the importance of strengthening the management of peaceful areas in Iceland, trying to get around the diversity and simple from the system we have today, where we have three institutions that are taking care of these matters and trying to get them under one hat, although there may be a number of opinions on exactly how to do it. But everyone agrees that it can be cleaned up. It has been noted here whether a complex system is being drawn up. Then I'd like to point out that if we want to have a democracies and increased access to different parties, such as rural governments, environmental organizations and outdoor parties, travel parties, etc., it calls a system that is certainly more complex than having a typical government agency directed above, the English name, by the President's permission, down-down-ttop. There has been an increased willingness to operate institutions such as these in a controlled way, i.e. with what in English might be called ◯bottom up to and including, by the permission of the president. This question was asked whether private people should run a national park and a nonviolent territory. Some feel that this might be reasonable in some cases. I would like to point out that this is a matter of certain social quality that I believe is better controlled by the government. However, when it comes to building a number of activities around the parks, services, and employment opportunities that can be based on the natural and national resources and peaceful regions, there are tremendous opportunities, such as the studies of Iceland's University have shown. As far as the Thunder field is concerned, I hear that these are certainly different opinions. It will be a worthy task for the Committee to consider this matter. Yet, I'd like to say that, as I spoke in opposition to what happened. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir negative, that it allows us to look at certain simplicitys, since we have both the Constitutional Committee and a management board as expected by the bill. I don't think that's a problem. Also, I'd like to say about the Capitol that I'll say something. paritaprevir Álfheiður the Ingadóttir of Ingagóttir on a Christmas set that I believe would be worthy of the committee's appearance. To come in only, it's like a dog. paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautiça mentioned earlier that it was compulsive to start new institutions, I would like to point them out. A senator claims that today we have three agencies that will handle these matters, but afterward one institution would do this. The stocks would be reduced from three to two. Then said why. A senator also felt that work was moving to the capital. I would like to mention, in the context of the fact that 85% of these three institutions are operating at nature's protection level. If we take Lakehjörn alone, there are three full - time jobs in the capital area and about 20 in the country. Likely, there are not some institutions that are not all in the country but those that have more and more distribution for employees than just institutions that protect the nature of the situation according to their status, because nature is in more places than in the capital. Regarding those comments, why? paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason that the institutions under Ministers are drawers in the councils, I do not know myself so that the institutions of the state are subject to anyone other than the Ministers, at least They are usually at the top of the regime. But, hey. A senator would need to explain this more later if I was to understand correctly what he meant. I would like to conclude that with the arrangement presented here, there is an increase in the availability of the locals to the management and management of all the peace-created areas of the country. These are some of the areas in which both the existing and the new areas are being strengthened. I want to end up stressing that in our nature, which is this large resource, whether we look at the fishing road or the tourism services, there is an enormous value to our local dwellings, for the scattered settlements. This is especially important to us. Therefore, and especially as a result, it is important that externals have a clear perspective and, in my opinion, guided by one institution, but with the continued well - being of the locals and other stakeholders. I thank the senators very much for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u104	A respectable president. I recommend a bill on deck. 1211, 781. This is a bill for the adjustment of the various agricultural laws on agricultural management and the transport of the products of agrienvironment schemes. The bill suggests that specific projects related to the management of agricultural production and the implementation of agricultural contracts are moved from Food Agency to the Ministry. Its main purpose is to promote agriculture and food policy. Then the change will reduce double pain that has resulted from the implementation of farm payments, making contracts, and reviews in two places. The work of the Agency is already clearly set apart from other tasks of the Food Agency and can be said that they generally do not agree with the core products of the Agency, which are food monitoring and monitoring for the health and management of animals. As mentioned earlier, the project proposed to the Ministry to take control of agricultural production in the country and the implementation of the market agreements is to be carried out. To date, it counts. registration of the paymark of legislation, implementation of bone grafts, collection of economics for agricultural production and monitoring the application of livestock. This procedure is discussed in the Treaty on livestock, farm laws, and the Food Organization law. This bill therefore suggests changes to the above law columns in order to deliver the required tasks to the Ministry. If the bill is legal, it is assumed that the personnel of the Food Agency, which performs these tasks, will be sent to the Ministry's staff. In view of the impact on the financial resources of the state, it is proper to consider that the projects of a farm are projects carried out from Iceland's National Association to Food Agency in 2016. Thus, the extent to which these projects and funding work is quite successful and if the bill becomes a law, it will not affect the survival of a government fund. However, the budget of the Food Agency's 12 media will decline by 114.5 billion. K. And in return, the Ministry's budget will raise the same amount. A respectable president. By getting these administrative projects to one place under one administration, you are looking for ways to improve priorities and to develop administration in a more efficient way. I have now explained the key points of the bill, and after this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u105	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the law on private treatment and the criminal treatment laws. At the same time, there is a change in the law on the extra income of the state funds, the child protection laws, the restraining order and removal of homes and legal laws. The bill is made up at the Ministry of Justice, having agreed with a judicial committee. Both the Ministry of Justice and the Justice Committee have received tips, including From the National Court, the Supreme Court, and the district attorney, on a number of factors that have shown that the new process of judicial action is better handled in those courts, as well as other factors not related to recent changes in courts and courts. This is not a matter that has inhibited court treatment in these courts. Rather, it is part of the case that requires further implementation or agreement between the points of judgment and civil rights and criminal criminal rights. The aim of the changes proposed by this bill is, therefore, primarily to clarify, harmonizing, and simple laws dealing with judicial hearings. The bill includes constant changes in civil and criminal treatment laws and, in some cases, the corresponding changes in both layers, in which there are actually fewer chemical changes than there are in the bill. Then there are a series of adjustments to the law of courts and other laws stated earlier. The top point of the bill is: First of all, adjustments are proposed to the recording and sharing of information from Congress, but under current legislation it is forbidden to record or take images into Congress without a judge's permission. The change is that it is forbidden to stream a sound or image from Congress or to send a concordance of reports, yet a judge can give an exception. It will be forbidden to publish such recordings without the permission of a judge and to cancel the fines unless there are a greater penalty on other laws. The same value of audio and video recordings of verbal presentation handled by the court. This change is primarily designed to strengthen the security of the court, but in judicial law it is strongly stated that each witness is normally to be tested without any other witness listening. This rule is designed to ensure that a judicial witness's testimony does not interfere with the testimony of other witnesses who have already published a report so that they can influence the outcome of a court case. This rule of caution clearly has no effect if witnesses can monitor the reporting of others on a live outside the court. The reason for the expansion of the values of the existing ban is also the formation of a variety of new communication techniques that enables those present to be sent out to a smaller or larger group of people for what is going on in court. Second, the change is made that the participants receive only copies of oral recordings but not of both audio and video recordings. On the other hand, the court will allow them to watch video recordings in a local court. The difference between audio and video recordings in this respect is made due to the risk that video recordings of the court will be submitted to the Internet. An exposé of oral testimony is generally much more effective than audio recording or rearraying and generally more difficult for the one who produced the projection if the public's image is reflected on the Internet. The risk that such a video of the Internet could influence the development of a witness may threaten the security of the Internet. In the bill, it is planned that the Court will provide additional guidelines on the delivery of copies of audio recordings and access to video recordings. This change does not include a limitation of the principle of public lawsuits, as it does not include any obstacle to public bioavailability at council hearings or rescription before regional court. The change is primarily designed to protect the interests of those who report orally and to ensure the legal security of their participants. Third, it is suggested by the law that the National Court's decrees to confirm the conclusion of a regional disclosure are not charged to the Supreme Court. This adjustment is in accordance with the Supreme Court's decision, but it is proper to state this point in the law. Fourth, it is suggested that the National Court and the Supreme Court can issue a judicial decision, whether in private or criminal matters, once it has been received, even if it has not been used by an all - legal postponement. The change is designed to shorten the case period when a substitute will not fully use its delay. Fifth, it is suggested that, instead of legally binding on national law, the Court's legal rights will hand over criminal data in four copies of the data in the form or in the number of copies decided by the National Court. This suggests a simple adjustment in the treatment of lawsuits for the National Court, which involves steps toward electronic treatment. By taking this form of passive action, the National Court may decide that the national Court will post a legal case electronically provided the safety of the data shipment is ensured by the court's opinion. Six is suggested to report to the Supreme Court and a request for privacy to be left in the same document where appropriate. Is this intended to simplify lawsuits for the Supreme Court. Seven: we suggest that we appeal to the National Court no longer have to report in an appeal policy each appealer intends to lead to court reports on the case and to what purpose it is to do. An appeal period is now four weeks. Experience has shown that by the publication of appeal policy, the attorney for an appeal has hardly had enough advice to lay the foundation for his case in terms of a review of evidence. Since the essay of an appeal is expected to be submitted to the Senate and to delay the program for reporting a report, this change will first begin to pass, but it will not result in disaster for the defences of the European Court. It seems practical, then, to dismiss a legal divorce of the fact that information about those who appeal to the court is required to appear in an appeal policy. The eighth is suggested to make clear in the law that the Supreme Court is permitted to limit appeals, either in private or in criminal matters, to specific matters. This change is in accordance with the Supreme Court decision, but there is no question about this matter of law. Nine are presented with an adjustment to the custody system, so if the accused sits in custody when the Court's jurisdiction, or the Court's Court's Court's Court's decision, is imposed and the custody of the court has been scheduled for a period past court date, it is not automatically completed at the hearing unless judgedly declare that he is uncondemned. If the defendant is sentenced to an illegal imprisonment, and he does not receive a sentence, he will not immediately be remanded to a local judge and will insist on continued custody, but will remain on until the original deadline. However, the decision for the continuation of custody during an appeal or the treatment of a case before a higher court will only be taken by a judge. The decision is intended to prevent this situation from surging a prison sentence because of a serious offense that may appeal to the unsurpassed authority of continued custody in court at the time it was originally marketed for judgment. A tenth is suggested that witnesses on criminal matters be told only about their name and social security, not today's. It is suggested that police officers be obliged to report their police numbers only. This change is aimed at protecting police officers, who often have to be in court because of their possible disorder and even a threat to their safety and their families. 11th is suggested to charge charges to the Supreme Court for a direct lawsuit to the Supreme Court. In the case that a court order requires a request of the Supreme Court to be paid for a lawsuit request, whether it is granted or not. On the other hand, there is no need to pay extra fees for charges granted. It is also suggested that a fee be issued for granting a request for the Supreme Court's permission for an appeal of private matters, whether such a license is granted or not. On the other hand, if a appeal permit is agreed, an additional fee must be paid for the release of an appeal policy. Finally, at the end of the 12th, it is suggested that there be a duty to say good - bye to a judge or to judges in matters fired at 54 C.E. child protection. However, by the number of them and by means of appeals, the rules for personal handling apply to the general population. It is then thirteenthly suggested that the Court's office be commissioned to set in agreement regulations regarding the release of judgments and judgments of all three judicial proceedings. In accordance with local legislation, the regulations of the Court of Justice are only for publication of local courts, while the release of the Court of Justice and the Supreme Court depends on the decision made by these courts to agree with the Court of Justice. It is stated that there are no further material modifications to the current courts' laws on publication or the published judgments, such as any judgment and decrees to be published, anonymous parties, etc. Then the bill contains a few smaller adjustments to the wording of individual laws and references between laws that are needed to ensure the clarity of the laws but not necessarily to trace them here. V.E.G. President. I have now explained the key points of this bill, and I suggest that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u106	President. I'm going to make quick comments here. I decided not to answer the top. Ministers where he is not written for this bill, although he has recommended it. I'm gonna make a comment on two things, both in pars. I feel that by order not to write or take pictures in any court but then the judge can give an exception to all of the above, if specifically indicated, to turn things upside down. That I know of this to be allowed, that is to be the general rule, but then the judge can shut down the council, or prevent a photo or audio recording if necessary. In other words, I want to turn it around and direct it to what is happening. A committee taking this case for treatment. I'd like to direct it to what it's like. One reference work is to consider what it means to avoid sending a frequent review of reports and whether this will affect the current reporting of judicial hearings. If so, and there's a tight connection to a judicial hearing with this bill, it's something that really needs to sit over and look at - because it's against what we want to see.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u107	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalize companies to the public goods of the threshing floor. 1245. This is a case of No. 785. The bill is suggested to establish a Community law for the public good. The purpose of the law is to provide more solid support to a free social organization that can be considered a public welfare organization. Work on the bill is rooted in the efforts of the Generals of the Third Sector, the preparatory work of the Department of Social Affairs and Security, and later the Ministry of Employment and Development. The bill is based on an early bill submitted to the 145th legislature of the then industrial and commercial minister but that bill did not succeed. Several changes in the bill have been made from previous contribution to simplicity in consultation with the World Health Organization and other parties. As mentioned earlier, the bill suggests that the total Community law for the public good will be passed, i.e. Societys that agree to their agreement are established for the development of specific, clear, limited issues for the public good but are not set up for the benefit of social services. This refers to so - called ideal organizations established for human development or for something that focus on certain individuals who meet specific requirements or issues that are further defined in the approved society. The subject must be considered to some national fancies, such as sports and human culture, patients' sponsors, rescues and helpers, consumers and cultures. This would be the choice of a partner if a number of participants were to be chosen. Other forms of partnerships can be desirable if, at times, they are being controlled for the benefit of a particular subject, as shown by the budget and organisations according to the law of No. 19/1988 and non-employment agencies by law No. 33/1999. The bill suggests that the enterprises for the public goods will be registered in the P.R. list as the head of the head of the tax but that the registry will be part of a company file. It is suggested that the P.R.P. will be selected, although public members can make it possible for sponsors, management contracts and public licenses to be registered to the public goods of society. The concept behind the directive is that state, rural society, government and government government agencies and firms on government property can make it necessary for a general organisation who is reaching out to meet some minimum conditions of structure and demonstrations so that government funds can be monitored and other sponsors of such organizations can also appreciate what they are building up and who are responsible for a more efficient operation. However, it should be made clear that this is a government authority to require that a community be registered in a public society file rather than be required to do so. The bill contains regulations for the establishment of social services for the public good, the main elements of the approved social group as well as the provision for socializing, such as members, entry, extraction and deportation. The bill also contains regulations on how to determine, on general social meetings, on what subjects should be considered on the main meeting and on the main meeting. The bill also contains regulations about the control of the social, its role, and decisions at the meetings of the board. There is also a provision for the recruitment of the Commission and its role as well as the suitability of directors and managers. Governments and managers shall be legal and must have custody of their estate. The bill suggests that a company should vote for one or more accountants, accountants and an observer or members of a community to review annual accounts. It is therefore stated that no later than one month after the approved annual bill should be published on the local web site or made officially comparable. The bill contains an arrangement for the wearout of a social group, de-registered, e.g. when a company is retired, and a broken company is judged. Then you can find a set of registrations in your P.A. list, which is a selection plan as stated earlier. A section on the P.R. registry contains regulations on the details to be included and on which documents to follow with the notification of registration. It is suggested that the P.R. companies use the abbreviation and that only members of the public goods registered in a public society will be allowed and obliged to use the abbreviation in their name. Then there is the bill to find laws on wood but including wood. it is based on the deliberate explanation of the behavior of a social group or other factors involved in public advertisements or announcements, reports, annual accounts, or declarations to the main meetings, or those in charge of a social group, or reports to public good society. Finally, in the bill, there is a provisional principle that suggests that a general company registered in a business registry at the office of the law can ask that their relevant conditions be asked to change their registration into a community to the public goods registered in a public society list. On January 1, 2020, the law is suggested as being valid. This allows room for both partners who intend to qualify for membership in the P.R. list to prepare for the change as well as the government tax manager to make the changes to be made by the Agency. If the bill remains unchanged, there will be no financial impact on the survival of a government fund. The bill does not mean that there is an increase in income for the state's funds, and already the costs for its approval within the current budgets of the industry and the Department of Developments. V.E.G. President. I believe this is an important bill here aimed at establishing a more solid support for a free organization that can be considered a public welfare organization. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u108	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister to introduce us to this bill to the 1st. This is a bill that is highly relevant to society, and its contents are bound to be all around society. If it becomes a law, it can affect future society in various ways. The origin of this bill comes from a work that began under the direction of the then social and health minister, the Guðbjartur - given heitinn Hannesson, and a report by a team of workers who produced the work in the fall of 2010, a group of workers appointed to people with extensive knowledge inside and outside the Ministry, who made excellent conclusions. The work that started that way at the Department of Social Security was then continued at the Ministry of Economic and Business and Later at the Ministry of Employment and Development. A prime bill for a P.R. was set up for the General Assembly at the 145th legislature, 2015•2016, by the then industrial and commercial minister. However, the bill could not be completed at that assembly, but it went through a narrative process and was well prepared. So this bill has had a long turn, with an umbrella group of public - health organizations, the Allied of the Third Sector, since it is certainly the third sector called, taking a firm stand for the case since 2008. According to the challenge of the organization, a prime minister or health minister appointed a member of the local society at the time to consider the need for law making. It was the role of this group. This bill has now been in the process of renewing life with a number of adjustments to simplicity, as the bill says, now called a bill for a social legislation. Track No. 33/190, not at all, of this bill, nor of the financial and administrative legislation that operate according to a validated constitution, No. 19/1988, at least not for a while. Then the Commission concluded that the tax environment of society to the greater good should be influenced by such tax laws as other forms of society, property, and funds. This will be discussed in a paper that may be a reason to consider the process of making new tax laws on the subject of taxation, inheritance, and gifts. In this respect, the bill works out a little bit, but there's no reason to worry about how much better it will be and that it will strengthen your business plans or your partner's place. If the bill is accepted, the legislation will apply to enterprises registered in the P.R. Treaty's P.P.P., and established or operated on will be designed to promote specific issues for the public good according to the established and formal approved conditions, such as the Supreme Court. There was a minister in his history. These laws do not apply to societies established for the benefit of social workers. A respectable president. For a long time, the national community has requested that there be a well-defined legal issue on the operation and that it is important to support confidence in the work of national public citizens and to promote good practices within such organizations. A better understanding of the work requires monitoring and transparency. In fact, this organization, many of which play an important role in society, wishes to have a solid legal environment to work on, such as. self-employment institutions and private institutions already have. But what are we discussing when talking about a public - welfare organization? What is this phenomenon in the community in the sense that we discuss it? We have many of them, and they play an important role in community service and have done for decades, longer than the republican history. Without them we cannot stay, and without them we should not be. Without them, we'd be quicker if we didn't take advantage of them. I give examples of a public welfare organization that is SIBS, the Red Cross of Iceland and Landsbourg. All of this is a public welfare organization that would probably, and according to the understanding of the present, will agree to these social legislations. The nature of the problem, according to all its work, is a must for the public to build confidence in their work. The public, who often negotiates various projects with a public welfare organization - including community service, aging services, and other factors - should therefore be in the best interests of operating with such partners, and it is clear to what their duties and roles are. Any shock or failure that occurs within such organizations, vague factors, undetectable boundaries, and possibly Indistinguishable understanding of public data, as may regularly be the media's subject, some of which fall into other public welfare organizations and, indeed, often in public areas, while the laws around this business are not clearly defined. A clear layer of law is the goal of this song bill to the highest. A minister has now recommended. The aim is to make the network of public - health organizations in Iceland as best known in the countries around us, both in terms of tax collections of public health organizations and tax recoverys to companies and to support their work. On the other hand, the purpose of the law is also to develop greater confidence in the public welfare organizations and to promote their work. There is no doubt that we need it in the near future to channel a powerful function of public society. It is not predictable that the government can care for and accept all the responsibilities and responsibilities that we together face. By enforcing legal requirements for such communities to enjoy various rights and responsibilities, the public is seeking to ensure that governments and organizations that have support or financial support are worthy of trust. So such laws would greatly improve the third sector and the community. As has been close to the government, in cooperation with some extent of the public good news organization. I can think of one example of a government model working with a public community, which is a cooperation with Iceland's Red Cross in the field of ambulances. This cooperation has been so effective for nearly a century, a good cooperation that was begun by interested people throughout the country, has developed into harmony with the spirit of the times, and has been successful. The Red Cross of Iceland is a public society that operates unprofitly. An ambulance cannot be employed without having any income to attend costs, but now the Ministry has chosen to complete this cooperation and start a mission and a trip without a promise. Unexplained answers about why this is so. It's not cost, it's not professional, there's some other thing. Of course, fear is that it will result in a great increase in cost if this service runs out in public or private places for that reason. The question remains, What will be the arrangement? This is one small example of a highly successful cooperation between public and public groups. This is where we see in my great League, the United Nations, pictures of which a public - welfare organization meets the community, handle assignments for the good of all, not to get out of that much money. A respectable president. Of course, this bill does not aim to set rules for all free societies, such as the highest. Ministers, on the other hand, only the defined public welfare organization as has been done in Finland. Finland has been our main example in this regard, and it is well, but in other respects we should adapt to the situation in Iceland and show that we are free and forward to it. As far as I'm concerned, the role of the third sector is increasing and we have to decide on what government project the government will take care of itself and what projects we can hand over to a public community, such as the Red Cross of Iceland, as I mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-11-94.u109	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct the registration of real owners on deck. One, one, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, This is a case of No. 794. The bill suggests that there will be a law on the registration of the real owners of law and bank funds and similar parties. There are also adjustments to the company file law, No. 17/2003, and Credit Service Act, No. 120/2011. The primary objective of the legal process is to ensure that there is always correct and reliable information about real owners in order to identify and prevent the financial theft and funding of terrorism. The subject of the bill is the induction of regulations of 30th and 31rd. European Parliament and Council Directive 2015/849 from 20 May 2015, on measures to use financial resources for financial failure or to finance terrorist activity as well as to react to the comments of an international team on the control of terrorism. The English word is: 'Financial Action Board Force, short - term FAFF. The results of the 2017 FAFF assessment of the state of affairs in Iceland made comments relating to the access of reported parties to information on the real owners of their clients. By means of the introduction of the above regulations of the EU Directive, no. These comments of FAFF are met by 2015/849. The FAFF report also made comments on the authority of the head of state tax to use sufficiency laws due to violations of corporate law, No. 17/2003, as well as in the extension of Iceland, to the FAFF recommendation on money and valuable shipment services. So the bill also suggests changes in the company file laws and credit laws, No. 120/2011. The bill also suggests that the European Parliament and Council Directive No. 2018/843 which alters the 30 and 31 paragraphs. EU Directive No. 2015/849, but no. The 2018/843 contract has not been recorded. It should be noted that by the end of last year, there were new overall laws on the use of money and terrorist funding. That's the law No. 140/2018, on the other hand, the regulations of the EU Directive No. 2015/849, outside bounds 30 and 31 g. about real owners, and, on the other hand, the majority of FAFF comments. The bill of what is presented here suggests that those who fall under the standard range of the bill, such as 2 Timothy 3: 1 - 5. g., e.g. members, private members, registered religions, pension funds, savings and other sources will be required to record information about their real owners as defined by the law on action against the financial resources and funding of terrorism, No. 140/2018, with a real owner, one or more, who actually owns the operation or controls the business partner, attorney or person in each name business or business. In the case of the legislators, a real owner is considered to be a person or person who actually owns or controls the law by direct or indirect ownership of more than 25% of the legal entity, has more than 25% of the voting rights, or is considered to have other authority over the legislators. Exception is the legal entity registered in an orderly market. If it is not possible to find a real owner, e.g. Because of so widely distributed holding that no individuals have or control a businessman in the sense of the law or if there is any doubt about possession, the individual, one or more, who is in charge of the legal profession, should be considered to be a real owner. Thus, in the case of the Agency's self-reliant administration, it would be registered as a real owner, and the same would be true if there was no doubt about the possession. In the case of funds and comparable persons, the real owner is a trustee, a founder, a responsible officer if appropriate, a court entitler, one or more. If the Court has not been identified as the right person or group of individuals who will benefit from the establishment of a trust fund or similar to any other person who has direct or indirect authority over a trust fund or similar. The bill suggests that lawyers will be obliged to record information about the name of the real owner, lawhouse, social security number, or birthday, subject to state, property, i.e. the size of property parts, and the type of ownership, and send in data to confirm the above information. The office is expected to have access to all information and information about the real owners of law enforcement, the head of state tax, the police, the local prosecutor, and the customs manager. It should be noted that the F.O. and the head of the state tax are members of the Rapporteur's law on how to handle money thefts and the funding of terrorism. It is suggested that announcementers in the sense of the law on action against money theft and the funding of terrorism, such as financial companies, lawyers and accountants, have access to the necessary information and data when they perform a reliable search and that the public has access to information about the name of the real owner, birth months and years, residence, state and type of property. It is also suggested that the tax authorities have access to all the information and information on real owners due to tax control, national information exchange and tax analysis, but the access of the tax authorities is not specifically required to inform the actual owners of the Directive No. 2015/849. However, it would be proper to discuss the access of tax authorities to information on real owners in this way, but this helps with government commitments due to agreements on tax exchange based on the multi-sided agreements of OECD and the European Council on mutual tax support. The aim of such agreements is to increase the transparency and support of tax collections. In terms of a trust fund and comparable to each other, it is suggested to include they will record information about interest stakeholders, founders, responsibilities and rights. Access to information about the real owners of funds and similar parties is suggested in a similar way as access to information about the real owners of lawmakers. However, the public is not expected to have access to such information unless it is able to prove legal interests by receiving the information delivered. The bill suggests that information about the real owners will be recorded in a company file run by the governor of the tax. It is suggested that the government tax manager be authorized to submit day-to-day fines and administrative guiltys as well as authorization to dissociate or cancel the registered party according to Article 2. he doesn't give information according to the law, and if he doesn't require compensation. The bill also suggests that there will be changes in corporate law, No. 17/2003, on the one hand, due to registration of the real owner and the other to respond to FAFF comments. As earlier, FAFF's comments stated that the head of the taxpayer does not have sufficient authority to use wood laws for violating a corporate file law, No. 17/2003, and it is suggested that the head of the government be authorized to commit day tickets and management fines, the report does not agree with the law and will not meet the requirements for reforms. The bill suggests that minor changes in the payment services law will be made, No. 120/2011, due to FAFF's comments during Iceland's extension to FAFF's recommendation on money and valuable supply services, changes lead to the removal of the concept of money and valuable services by approved legislation on the actions of the money-gast terrorism, No. 140/2018. In place of the term "biological" money and valuable delivery services, comes the Office of Remuneration. It's suggested that the law take effect immediately. At the new registration of the registered members under the law, the actual owners should be reported. The provisional rules of the bill include the obligation of the registered parties under the law, which are already enrolled into a corporate registry to record information about their actual owners no later than December 1, 2019. As mentioned earlier, the bill suggests that information about the real owners will be recorded in a company file employed by the head of the tax. The bill is expected to bring an increase in cost as a result of changes in the national taxpayer's computer system of 15 billion. K. The registry budget is also expected to increase by 20 million. K. every year. These extra expenses have been expected following the approved bill and are covered by costs within the budgets of the environment. The bill suggests that the head of the tax is authorized to handle fines because of the neglect of announcements. It is impossible to estimate income from fines, although it is not possible to determine the extent to which they will be tested and how the decision of a fine would develop. However, dalters and government fines are essentially antiquated laws and are therefore not expected to make significant money by this procedure. If the bill remains unchanged, the financial impact on the survival of the state's funds will thus increase income as a result of a warrant for the use of day - to - day fines and government fines, but there is no question of how high that income will be. V.E.G. President. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee for discussion.
