ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u1	Borist has received a letter from a member of the Parliamentary Assembly for Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddsdóttir to be absent at the next public hearing. As reported on the General Assembly, 1st was taken as an assistant to the Agency's list in Smoke. So, Alex B. Stefánsson, served as a deputy for her on Thursday, May 9. There's been a letter received from 8th. Witchest. " Sigurður Páll Jónsson that he could not do any congregational work in the near future. So today, on Monday, May 13, we are taking his place at the General Assembly as his deputy of the Central Party Art, Jón Þór Þorvaldsson. They have previously taken their place in the General Assembly, and they are invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u2	The president considers it an agreement that meetings can last longer today than the Senate dictates.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u3	There have been two letters from a health minister asking for every request to give written answers to inquiries. One hundred and twenty, of the birth of sickly women, of Halldóra Mogensen, and of the threshing floor. 1323, about the rent - rent cost of medical care, from the daughter of Elijah, Elíasdóttir Flandrafjörður.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u4	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Department of Social Affairs and Juvenile Affairs, Environment and Resource Ministers and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u5	Mr. President. My request to the highest. The prime minister of St. Katrín's Jakobsdóttir turns to words she made in the evening news Stopr 2 last Saturday. V.E.G. The minister said there, by permission of the president: It is important that the Parliament achieves the best solidarity of a constitution during the council. In these words it seems that the authority to establish a constitution, a fundamental law of the people, is at the Council of the United States, that we, as here on earth, are authorized to set the rules of rules of law in society, as well as the rules of rules that apply to us that set the rules. In view of this, it is good to recall that in 2012 about two thirds of the country's budget agreed that here a new constitution should be established based on legal proposals. Well, seven years later, it hasn't happened, but it's the highest. Ministers have led to the work of the presidents of the political parties working on reviewing the Constitution. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: In what authority does she feel that she is working as she conducts this work during the review of the Constitution? Does it represent the people, or is it represented by the council, or is it represented by the presidents of the political parties? In short, I ask the highest. Prime Minister: In view of the Supreme Director, who is the director. Prime Minister? Is it the council, or is it the people?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u6	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for bringing up this important issue. But my words on the news as hell. In fact, a senator read here all that means is that changes in the constitution need to be approved according to the current Constitution of the council, at the National Parliament, not just once, but twice, i.e. On the one hand, at this assembly, hopefully, now active and then after the second election. It is the arrangement in the current constitution. So what? A senator cannot understand what I'm saying, so we're going to make changes in the constitution, which I want to be made, and I hope that, as most members of the council would agree that it's a long time to do, it's important that they go through this council because there's no other way of changing the constitution. But I also think that all of us sitting here, me and him. A senator and everyone else have a problem. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers, sit here on behalf of the nation, and our duties are not only to our voters but to our whole society and nation. That is why we should always be guided by public interests in our jobs. I believe there is a rich public interest in us achieving the necessary changes to the constitution. So I have proposed a work ethic that we have worked after the remainder of this terms, that the Constitution's overall review will be conducted in two terms. The regulations that led to this news and to a government consultation today are only the first stage of that course. There's a lot of work to do. However, I want to say that I have been very pleased with this work. I am optimistic that it will produce changes in the constitution and that we will receive more regulations in the community. I'd also like to mention it in this context that this conversation will not only take place in my consultations, although these two regulations have gone along that way, but also the decision was made at our last meeting that we will go to a reasoning survey, which I think will be an important experiment in behalf of democracy in this country this year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u7	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, which I think may be a little theoretical approach to my question. Overall, I was asking for an attitude of the highest magnitude. Prime Minister to Who Really and truly is the Ruler I am aware that the council needs to agree to a constitution. I'm totally aware of that. The reason I'm asking the highest question. A minister into her view of who is the director also has to do with how the current work is being carried out, with all attitudes, in what spirit, and on what basis. If the view is that the council has this and can be done, but not the nation, I am concerned about the value of the process as well. I didn't get that clearly in answer to the highest. Whether she felt that the real constitutionr, despite the processes and shapes and the like, was the nation or the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u8	Mr. President. I think we're gonna do what. A senator does not disagree too much on this matter. First, because the council accepts its authority from the nation, always, I do not want to play a council and nation in contrast, but we sit here on behalf of the people. And in this particular case of yours. A senator tore, i.e. Our constitution, we have very clear guidance from the nation in the national pay. A senator mentioned in his earlier question. And first what. A senator may wonder, " What is really the guidance or guidance of this work?'So, of course, we have looked to what came out of that national law. More important, resource and environmental standards are set out for that job. Of course, though, this question was also asked: Should a paradox be based on drag? The answer was yes. But I have also said that I do not view it as a term for word to word. Rather, we build on that foundation and continue to work on the foundation where it was laid, and the nation gave us guidance in this vote. I hope this answers a question. Senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u9	A respectable president. Today, we vote for the so-called haemolytic bill health minister. I've been wondering, and that's why I wanted to come up in the inquiry to the minister, whether at any point was thought of in terms of how imperviously sensitive and large this matter is. Was it never thought about whether it should approach on any other basis, using a complete approach that might at the same time represent prevention, decomposition, early intervention? It would do something other than, for example, other than that. the argument that it was the first and last of women's self - determination rights to their own body, which now appears to run out at the end of the 22nd week of pregnancy. Apparently, that is no longer the case. I'm asking the highest. Health Minister: Is it not so growing when we sense that there is a great deal of undering in society, that we could have tried more peacefully and peacefully to grasp this delicate matter and make it possible for all of us to enjoy it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u10	A respectable president. Of course, it is a lot to reflect on that such cases have not been established in the World Congress since 1975, since then a certain conclusion was reached in a case where the requirement of women's self - determination was broken. It's been all these years, 44 years. When I entered the Ministry of Health, there was a report requested by the highest level. Marine and agricultural ministers, then health ministers, Kristján Þór Júlíusson, in which a bill of this kind was proposed in a very clear and professional way. This report was on the table when I arrived at the Ministry, and I thought that the only offer was to bring the Commission's conclusions to the Council because it's the Council who's supposed to make this decision, not the Minister himself. I have to say, although I'll probably be more aware of the next vote, I've felt that the Senate shows in this matter what it is possible to do because the matter has been given a very detailed discussion. The welfare committee. The situation has taken place, so the conclusion or viewpoint on the matter is not necessarily in harmony with the support of a government or opposition to it. Rather, it is a stand on the issue as such. Perhaps that is exactly how the council is supposed to work, that all of us take sides primarily in the matter as such. I believe that while the issue is primarily about women's self - determination, there are many reasons why they can be reasoned. But this conclusion is always the case. She is right for women, she is right for that opinion, and the firm belief that a woman should rule her own body. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u11	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The health minister for the answer. The decision is right for women. Is she right for the unborn child? When does the Supreme Court begin to live? A health minister? Congress has spoken, but when did we really get a serious speech? When did we get a serious talk about this? Does the Icelandic voters prefer it when they entered the voter room of 2017 that this bill was available? I don't think so. That is why I say again: Is at some point at the top goal. Health Ministers to put their arms around the group, taking the lead in reducing abortion rather than accepting it until the end of the 22nd week of pregnancy without any conditions? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u12	A respectable president. Without the fact that I'm going to discuss the matter materially with this team, I felt that in view of what was involved, the matter was being discussed in the Board's consultations and that I would get reviews there and then come to the council and bring in. The committee has discussed the matter very extensively in an unusual number of meetings compared with what is underneath. So I think it's very well taken care of, really. In addition, they included a committee between 2 and 3. ... whodoesn't necessarily have every case. But because of him. The senator wants to discuss more factors for childbearing and pregnancy, so to speak, that I have used to increase the availability of contraception, especially the availability of sensitive groups to hormonal contraceptives, and will continue to continue, as well as the increase in sex education will be seen and has already increased in the recent stages. It's all part of a big picture.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u13	Mr. President. Searching for cervical and breast cancer is the most extensive function of a cancer society that was established in the middle of the last century. In accordance with the National Competent Authority, the Society arranges for an oncological search program involving women between 23◯69 years of age. It simply has a flash of paint. Since 2013 the Association has been extended seven times, and the current contract is until the end of this year. Since this business is subsidized by the government, the cancer community has paid these years with the project. It tells itself in short - term contracts that it is difficult to develop activities and work on the subject of a future awareness. Earlier this year, the cancer club received a request to carry on with the project until next year's convention, making a contract for the Ministry. The Society did so, arranged contracts, and sent to the minister in March. Then it was the message that Iceland's Medical Insurance would contact the Cancer Society for the extension. Since then, no word has been heard. This is a very specialised group of staff. Many of this has been on a six - year notice, and it is obvious that the cancer community needs to resign to this group in the next month. There is no evidence now that this agreement will be renewed by some knowledge. It is serious that there is such uncertainty about the future of cancer screening in Iceland. I'm asking, is it the highest? Ministers satisfied with this process and this practice? When will the secretary's plans for these matters be resolved? The highest. A minister has the potential to inform it right now?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u14	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. I would like to approach the answer to this question by means of a cancer schedule. Thus, when I arrived at the Ministry, I have confirmed and established the schedule. One of the proposed chemotherapy regimens is the establishment of a screening guide. The surgeon general's staff is aimed at making recommendations for the screening procedures. Today, a program of screening has turned in its proposals. It is an essential factor in prevention of intensive screening, and especially in the case of the cancers discussed here, cervical and breast cancers, but also colon cancer, which have also been discussed. When a screening guide gives me its suggestions, they include suggestions. ...... Who is in charge of what is in this process? One person who has maintained certain aspects of cancer screening is Iceland's cancer center and has done so well. Since then, the move has been made by other parties, or Landspirators, primarily. In order to control this process and to ensure full participation in these screenings, there is, in fact, a need for people to be there, so that they can feel compelled to attend and attend. According to the screening guide, the system is expected to be slightly different and to be set up as a project management to achieve these changes. I have agreed these suggestions, assuming that the project management is involved and is involved in Iceland's cancer community for these changes, whatever they are, to have awareness and will of the cancer society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u15	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I must say, however, that it was quite technical with a subject, which is really not very technical but the much more serious. I'm going to mention that these suggestions, I haven't seen them myself, but I know that in the group that was set up then there was no expert from the search center, was there? [[Up front.]] - No, there was no expert in that case. Perhaps this problem could have been cut short by bringing them in the existing suggestions, but not by calling them back now, when suggestions are made and the highest. Minister has approved them. There's another kind of work that could have been much better, so it's not further down in the years. While the cancer community has been waiting for the results of researchers who are certainly less experts than they are in the cancer community but who were assigned to study this, it has suggested a proposal for future screening procedures. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is this being taken into consideration? Has she seen it? At the same time, I'd like to know how strong a minister feels that this will be done at the time? [[The president calls.]] Or will the cancer club be offered yet another buttup in the form of an extension? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u16	First, regarding the proposal of the screening Council, it is in many respects a European role model, i.e. How the foundation structure, as it were, is around the screens. I have met with the cancer community and have seen ups with the cancer community, which in many respects is not related to the plan proposed by the Board of Screening. However, a screening guide also has a very significant point that is that tests are free of charge. There we agree with the cancer community that it must be, because many have said that they did not trust them to do cancer research because of the cost of it. I expect that from this inquiry why. A senator that I study at the Ministry how the communications have been just over the past few weeks with the Iceland Cancer Society, whose cancer community is so large that it is unacceptable that it is not being implemented in agreement with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u17	Mr. President. As mentioned earlier, we will vote for a pregnancy break-off bill by the health minister today. The matter is delicate and controversial in society, it has been run through without having received adequate discussion on the committee. Some senators have said that they are surprised to learn how far the matter has come. The company asked the committee for additional questions and requested more specialists for the committee. It was refused. The chairman of the Committee refused to try to reconcile the number of weeks and resolved. A ethics agency suggests to postpone the case, so delicate matters need a much deeper discussion in the community. This also makes development help. The Bishop of Iceland feels that it is unacceptable for the People to agree on the bill. The matter has medical, religious, and moral issues. No religious body was invited to appear before the committee. The chairman of the Committee has said that religious views are not to be influenced - and that is expected not to be a moral subject, which, of course, all know to be truthful in this matter. So I directed to the prime minister that she uses her influence so that the Allied will not detract this delicate matter at this point. Many matters of opinion are really unsettled. So I ask the highest. Prime Minister: Is a minister ready for a broader and social reconciliation?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u18	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his inquiry. I have every respect for the fact that this is a matter of deep importance and of the fundamental conviction of many, if not all, members of the council. First, let us discuss only the work practices involved in this matter. Work to review a pregnancy break was implemented, not by the last health minister, but by the most recent health minister, the highest. Minister of Kristján, Þór, son of Júlíusson. It was accomplished a very carefully published report and received a public discussion immediately, some years ago, I believe it was 2015 or 2016. The bill appeared in the autumn Summit and has been discussed in the past. The welfare committee. I can't help saying what I've heard about that job. I understand that there have been a great deal of work, many meetings being held on the subject, many guests being given in marriage, and not being asked to form representatives of the committee. I can only hear that the Chairman of the Committee held the matter as well as possible. It doesn't make any difference that this is a matter that I have a complete understanding of dividing people into two states, and to me, it's a huge matter of importance. This is a fundamental matter of women's self - sufficiency, their right to control their own bodies and their own lives, a long - awaited matter of rights, but at the same time the freedom that is proclaimed in the bill is a great responsibility. I feel that I trust people and women not to make such decisions lightly. I trust women with the responsibility of these rights. I trust these rights will be progressive steps for women in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] To me, this is also a very fundamental matter, and I don't think that these questions will change, even though we may have more meetings on the subject because I think it was a good job. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u19	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister. Let's just move on to the Independence Party. He has done much to promote the peace that could be said to have existed in Icelandic society when it comes to this delicate group of subjects. Now, in a government that the Independence Party has the highest power. The health minister decided to break up this reconciliation and to uproot it. In advance, I don't want to believe that the Independence Party has bent on this case to ensure the left green support of the third energy package. This is what has been suggested in the discussion that such horse purchase has taken place within the ranks of the governments. It is more important than tears, Mr. President, that the right to live for the unborn is no more respected than is shown in terms of groups such as the Foreign Party and the Independence Party, not to mention the first - time members of the government. [[The president calls.]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u20	The president's attention is focused on what is happening. A senator turned a inquiry to the highest level. Prime Minister. The request was not addressed directly to the Independence Party or Health Minister and asked the president to take care of his words.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u21	Mr. President. As shown in my first response, this is a fundamental issue. That's not true at all. A senator suggests that such fundamental issues take place in any kind of horse wedding. It's just not like that, I must say, Mr. President. And I don't think it's appropriate to associate here with a whole non-related case. The bill right here - and I reiterate that I fully understand that there are differing opinions - is such a fundamental issue and is about my political convictions so deeply because it is about women's rights to their own body. Women will never become independent until they have the rights. Some would have wanted to go further, with no time limit and full trust in women. That's my personal position. But I'll support this bill below, and I won't be told that this case or such a case, as serious as it really is, that I, or my colleagues in the Independence category and the forward group, would think of going to some horse shop about it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u22	Mr. President. I've wanted to have a place to talk to. Prime Minister on how the government intends to complete the long period of timely work, the Guðmundur and the Geirdar. The Guðmundur and the Geography began 45 years ago, and it has not yet been completed properly by the Icelandic government. Many smells are still unsolved. The courts have now justified the individuals sentenced to murder at the time, but the woman who suffered much violence and tyranny in reports and custody, Erla Bolladóttir, is left alone with her sentence on her back. We now know that it was under intense pressure from a newborn mother who was held in a prison cell for a long time away from her young child. Yes, there has been nothing in her case, she alone shall remain a convicted woman, and no conversation with the government, no answer to inquiries, nothing. She's ignored. Following the Court of Justice, it is the Supreme Court. In the fall, a committee was formed that was to be in contact with the judges and descendants of the dead, but nothing has been asked by the committee for some time. It seems to be just steamed up without new plans. The attorney Andri Árnason has arrived to represent the prime minister in this case. Seven months have passed, the business has been judged, and their citizens are not answered, and the highest. Prime Minister will not be contacted on this matter. Mr. President. For 45 years these people have been violent and oppressive by the Icelandic government. Prime Minister stepped on. In the fall following a judicial hearing and apologized, but what was being apologized for? No attempt has been made to first seriously dive into what happened during the investigation. The questions I would like to answer are: Is the Syndicate Committee still working, or is she giving up on the project? It's the highest. The prime minister prepared here in the General's symposium that the defendants have suffered torture and inhuman treatment on the part of the government of the United States? Is acceptance of such violence a potential part of the coming reconciliation? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u23	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for asking about this delicate and complex matter. I can start by answering again. A member of the council said that the peace committee arranged by the three hearings under the direction of the Kristrún Heimisdóttir's Daughter is still active. From the beginning, it was clear that Andri Árnason would be appointed a state lawyer, so there is no new news in this matter. Rather, he has worked with the Commission from the beginning because of the inadequacy of a state lawyer. It's been down from the beginning. However, there are very different groups. The five defendants, who were acquitted with the judgment I felt were right in response to an apology on the part of the government, including the government. Because these individuals were suffering hardship at the time, in order to be perfectly clear on my part and accepted - these are five individuals or groups, three who are still alive, and the descendants of two people who are no longer among us. The ideologies proposed on the matter of reconciliation were to determine whether it is possible to reconcile with all these parties, in view of the contrast to the legal environment in terms of improvements on the other hand regarding those who still live and on descendants. The goal was to achieve a complete meeting. The committee is still at work as a state attorney, so, of course, I hope that such an agreement can be reached. For Erla Bolladóttir, who has come to my meeting, just so they could be held, I would, of course, have wanted it all to go much faster. I can say it here, too. Its uniqueness, however, is one of the reasons why it was rejected at the time. So she has some special standing from others who heard the judgment. [[The president calls.]] But that does not change the fact that her case has also been considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u24	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answers. I have a feeling that there are some reliefs both at Bolladóttir Bolladir and the representatives of the individuals under there because I've talked to three of the five groups and hear they don't know what's going on. They do not receive answers, and the committee appears to be exorcised in their opinion. They do not understand what is going on, and this is most unfortunate, and of course, a certain lack of trust in the government. I'd like a later answer to the highest question. Similarly, the prime minister, where reports have come to us that the German senators are now investigating the participation of the German detective on this matter, whether the prime minister is prepared to establish that a committee of inquiry will be set up for the once and for all to see how the investigation was conducted, and why the trial was so devastatingly difficult. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u25	Mr. President. Yes, I'd like to reiterate that I've also met the representatives of these three groups, at least, even more of those five groups. I'm sorry, and I understand that - while the project is not finished, it is, of course, so I would have liked it to work more quickly for me. But it's a complicated project. Because it is also unique. First thing. In his second request, a senator mentioned how we can ensure that we learn from this matter, I think that this is the most important thing, and we must learn from this matter. Whatever the case, it is important that governments do not repeat themselves, subject for open discussion on this matter, and what lessons we can learn from it, just to make sure that the lesson is not tied to those who remember this matter, but to continue. I think there are so many things in this case -- and I really hope - that it's a unique story, but don't repeat itself. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u26	A respectable president. V.E.G. During the fall of days, the prime minister appointed a team to review laws and regulations on land and property. This was done in the wake of the Supreme Work. Marine and agricultural ministers for the possession of farms. I really hope this work is going fast and well because with complacency we're losing possession of Iceland's resources. The whole country is a resource, the land itself, the soil and the vegetation that thrives there. A country of great uses, including for food production, and land can follow benets such as hunting, mining and water rights. The treatment and use of this land is important to the whole population, both now and for the future. It is a major public benefit in the administration and management of the country, and therefore it cannot match the rules of buying and selling land, such as any other real estate. The population is now about 44% of the country, but the land which is neither part of national land nor urban areas is divided into more than 50% of the country. Iceland's farms have an increasing number of 6,000 to 67,000, and they have increased their interest in buying land ownership without the goals for farming or use and without proper responsibilities that should be carried out on land. At the same time, the possession of resources is shifted to fewer hands, from country to country, from farm to farm, from diseased, and not reached by ground authorities and other problems. However, when land follows purchases and sales as part of society's property, it seems that the limited rules that we have on the provision of the country do not cover the exchange. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: What's the situation at work? Can the group work to all land and land? Will the group cover the entire project and ensure that land resources are owned or required more?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u27	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. It is true that this is a matter of great concern to people in many parts of the earth, i.e. the lack of reason to place further restrictions on possession of land. Like what? A senator referred to a commission I appointed after a task force of marine eco-efficiency and agricultural ministers returned a report on the possession of farms. By then, there were three agencies actually involved, i.e. The Ministry of Economics, the Fisher's and Agriculture Ministry, the Ministry of Justice - and, indeed, the fourth, as well, i.e. Home Office. I thought it right to lead all these departments together in an orderly way over the proposed routes. So I put down a committee and it was assigned to cover, because of the circumstances. A senator asked, definitions of land and property without specifically exception. Thus, for analysis at this point, only property, use, and so on is the focus of a country outside a town. The committee was to come back last month, but it will return in the month. Then I think we've got some pretty good maping on the way we can go. As for more of the council, I want to set rules on the restrictions of the land market, myself thinking that it is the right thing to do. Hv. A senator named the people. When I discuss these international issues, people think it's a good thing that we Icelanders have 44% of our country in public because that's exactly where we're watching resource use, energy use and so forth. I think it would in itself be a very positive additional step if we then set a clearer framework for how we want to view land use or land ownership. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u28	A respectable president. Thank you very much. At the end of our work, the prime minister gives the answer and rejoices that at the end of the work, he also wants us to encourage him to speed it up as possible. I'd like to say that there's a reason why there's even more services to work, including The Environment Ministry, because there is a need for laws that are directly involved if we are to limit our limitations, but there is also a need to prepare the instruments available for governments that affect the provision and including the strategy of rural society. I think it's interesting to consider how to use them better to set areas for sustainable land use. A land ownership file is also a baser. This was shown in response to my request for administration and land registration that there is a shortage of updated protocols in that field. Finally, I'd like to ask the minister: Has the publication of the resource directive the Constitution that was presented. Friday's going to affect work in the final meters? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u29	Mr. President. So I start with the last one, I think if we succeed in agreeing with this provision that guarantees national resources, it is a positive step that mine knows to ensure national resources and to exploit the public from its resources. I apologize for forgetting to mention the Environment and Resource Minister, who is also a member of this staff. What he is supposed to do, and that's why it is important that he finish his work as soon as possible, is, in effect, map the lines, which vary considerably from the angle of view, whether we want to place restrictions on the possession of one person on a certain size of land or on a number of farms. Do we want to apply the organizational laws to a greater degree, as we do with examples from our neighboring countries, where certain organizational plans are set up on land, or do we want to look to conditions? These are very different ways and differing views, depending on where people come from. I hope that by getting all these views together, because all this Ministry has sent reports on these issues from different viewpoints, we should be able to expect a bill at the next council, which I think would be a great improvement because there have been a lot of calls for rules about this being clear and transparent, but there are rules. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u30	Mr. President. A life - making contract is a beautiful word and refers to a community covenant for living. Of course, it would be desirable if governments were to work progressively to make greater peace with the entire population for the long future. Here, too, are basic conditions for this to be possible. However, it is extremely difficult to use such a term for a labour market that, first of all, includes only part of the workers without having any promises of how to reach everyone. There is simply little in a financial program that suggests that many of those who become ill in society will be invited to such a contract, and a small effort will be made to make those who are not familiar with their speech more reasonable. It is necessary, however, if such a contract is to live up to its name. In addition, much of what is promised in the biographies is unfinished in financial programs and unassigned. I can name tax proposals. In this context, we will see if they reach all the stairs and whether a personal discount will be frozen, which will, of course, fail to bring up the pay raise. Then there are the housing proposals, but the first financial plan did not expect sufficient money and no first purchase is handled. In addition, the government seems to want to give up the growth reform system, and later next year child benefits will begin to diminish under the minimum interest. They're finally going to need quite a bit of an attack on the disability-fuel system. The impact of the biographer agreement is virtually no price paid by the Habitat, which, of course, tells a story about them. In general, raises due to biographies have virtually no effect on new national forecasts and financial contributions. Of course, it also tells a story about the contents. Plans for large production and value production in the coming years will likely do much more than meet the dramatic changes that are taking place in the population's dating. Of course, increasing the value and production is now important, and we can if we are ever more ready to turn our eyes on from primary production and promote creativity and innovation, promoting research funds, and advanced education. But in order for the poor, the elderly, the poor, the poor, the students, and the young children's families to become shareholders in this lifetime contract, they simply need to divide the quality equal, revise capital and money taxes, and get more reasonable money from the nation's resources. The tax system also needs to be revised from the foundation if we are to meet a future challenge in order that there will be no greater inequities in the situation and that governments can continue to be able to carry out a more advanced basic service for all. We are now looking for negotiations in the public markets, including those in the United States. large groups of women doing important work, but most of the population agree that they are not appreciated, at least not available for remuneration. Only 0.5% of the increase in pay is expected in the official out-of-view. New national interest forecasting accounts for 0.2% of contractions. The general hold-up of our government, as well as financial advisers, has called straitjackets, will more strongly bite the public class. The stymbler means that the welfare system will be used to fluctuate. That's what we've been warning about for a long time. For over a year now, we have called for a more practical financial program that has been chosen, but we see only minor changes in it. Thus, the arrival of the government to the biography agreement does not present any fundamental changes aimed at a more reasonable and just society for all of us, much more a rather predictable compromise between two categories, left party and right party. The result, therefore, is a community where the worst are now getting the value of pizza bids at Domino's once a month, and due here and there, but no action guarantees a safer life. Thus, life will continue with the same injustice that the big picture remains. Undeterred, the income - stricken ones of the elderly, the cripples, the students, and the young children will be further reduced. So I'd like to hear the highest attitude. Prime Minister: Take care of the highest. A government will take into account the UN bill that ensures the elderly and the microchip alike? Does the lake support students who make them feel better and more secure? And finally: Does a minister count it realistic to cross the biographer agreement to the public professions? [[The president calls.]] And how does it feel that education is not to be valued in terms of pay?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u31	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for starting this discussion, which, of course, is far more extensive than just talking about collective agreements ahead of him. Rather, it is about many fundamental issues in our community, including. how we can, by our actions, improve the interests of the public. I'd like to start by talking only about the biographies right now. A senator made it a subject. Although not all who have now written in a general labour market, 90% of the general labour market has been negotiated, on the one hand in the contracts introduced at the Ministry House at their time late at night, and then industrial workers have joined in so that the vast majority of the general labour markets have decided to negotiate from these large lines, including ... becauseof the actions the government declared. I want to swerve them only if they were already toyed in that way. One senator asks: " Is our community making enough of it to improve everyone's interests? Yes, there are many key factors. It's a process of extending a birthport, so I start there, to form a fundamental change, perhaps much more fundamental. While not everyone has stopped having children, many of them do not dwell on too much. We have reports showing that bridgeing the care gap is one of the key measures to reduce the poverty of children in Iceland. This is also a key procedure to meet young people, but when we examine our database, the history of income, where provisions can be considered, and their development shows that young people have been left behind in the development of a provisional program. It's the people that are having the children, the people who are just about to have trouble fixing the gap. We're creating a problem if we don't solve that problem. This is basic, and this is extremely important. Similarly, the founding industry is nothing that the present government has invented. Let us be honest with the fact that there was another government that started it in cooperation with the labor movement and the labour market parties, which are building a new social housing system that I think is of utmost importance to improve the interests of people in general. Hv. A senator mentioned a change in the tax system. Yes, I believe it is a fundamental change to re-inculcate a three-stage system like it was here during 2009-2013, where we're looking at a lower level than we were in and out. A senator specifically asked if the changes were going uphill. I think he put it that way. Well, it gave our clear promise that tax reductions would be greater in income - bearing groups than in the higher income, so this process will be directed toward it. You're right next door. A senator not to present all these activities in a financial program and, of course, need to be revised now. There may be another debate and a greater issue, since it is obvious that a new economic forecast requires a reevaluation of financial plans than of the financial programme proposed for the council about 62 billion of the 80 billion we expected in this operation, i.e. Much more of them had appeared in a financial program. Hv. A senator then asks about other groups. Companies are ahead of state and community. Of course, the biographer agreements that will likely be considered in the earlier contracts have taken place. But it also contains specific opportunities. For example, a requirement that has been at the top of tables, especially for state and rural shift workers, reviews work time arrangements because many are under pressure, especially for those who are on duty. Official workers have increasingly complained about increased demands and pressures on work, working hours and employment conditions in general, but in the biographies between SA and the labor movement, there is a basis for a new approach to the working period as well as a switch between employees and employers. In this position there is an opportunity to review especially the hours of public employees. I will not take special interest in students, but I want the Minister of Social Affairs to introduce recently the first steps made in certain dresser reforms to micro-energy donors and that there will be a significant decrease in their detriment, so of course it is important that we forget no group when we are discussing the general interest in society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u32	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the advisor for as well as the highest. A prime minister who takes the time to be here today. The design of large groups of women working for state and rural groups is a fact, unfortunately, and that is one of the most caring and educational classes. Work conditions are challenging and pressures within the welfare system tend to increase, and more is being fought for the same staff. For example, larger institutions, such as Lands Hospitals, may overpay nurses, and other institutions may be left behind. What needs to be followed in this case is that equal employment does not match institutions that would be desirable in which government agencies are concerned. According to one authority, government agreements affect the welfare system, and thus it must affect financial programmes. A striking fact is that five each nurse has stopped working at nursing five years after graduation. This tells us only one thing: The pressures of nurses are too great, and the remuneration of nurses has not been based on the basis of other comparable classes. If you look at women's classes, as I said at the beginning, the carers and the castes, you need to be careful and look ahead to the future. The government needs to establish a clearer policy regarding the payment of public jobs so that similar pay is paid for similar jobs in which there is education, responsibilities, and performance, and on the contrary to institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u33	Mr. President. For example, there are many subjects and projects that can come up with optimism, an optimistic outlook that helps to solve the projects or to see all the problems ahead and try to deal with them, and then everything will be much more difficult. People can look ahead with optimism or see shadows everywhere. I think that when we look at what has been done and have happened now with the biography agreements, we all have reason to be quite optimistic when we look ahead. I believe that the biographers contracts called a turning point in collective agreements in Iceland. The most important concern is economic growth, where direct contact is made between sectoral mobility and increase in pay, i.e. It is under way to ensure that future payers in Iceland will have their share of the growth of the economy. That's extremely important. In all the publicity in the implementation of collective agreements, both the employment community and the remuneration network emphasized that most of them would be looked forward to achieving the economy and building up the standard of living for lost persons. I think it's done, the project isn't over, but it's succeeded, and the government has made the decision to return. We're extending the birthworm. We're making changes to the tax system that are involved in subsidizing with low-payers with a lower percentage in the lowest salary in income tax, and we're building up the housing system again, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u34	President. If the entire U.S. Senate was to be pulled up here and answered the question: Do you want to guarantee the approval of working people who allow them to live gracefully? would be a positive answer for all of us. The promise of a decent wage and a growing prosperity sound regularly, but it almost doesn't happen at all. The fifth of the people mentioned among them has made no profit in terms of growth, financial gain, and the number of averages that measure economy, not prosperity and happiness. Instead of trying to solve these problems, we have allowed their influence to grow. We now see even more clear evidence of a growing class distinction in Iceland. This is especially true within the medical system, where much of the low - paying classes work, and the pressures on them increase constantly. The country's hospitals also operate most of the country's women's classes, and it has proved that, despite all of this, even when the government is the employer, their jobs are not determined to match the work of men. It is a political decision to maintain a sexual pay, and then we pretend not to understand why it is so difficult for humans to live in a land hospital. The causes of the owner's problem are unreasonable work time and unreasonableness. The government's promise of increased equations has not led to poor people and lack of promises. Their position remains largely unchanged, except for the fineds that the labor movement has guaranteed them by its hard struggle. The lowest possible prospects for the future will disappear in a health - threatening low - pay form to make ends meet, but such pressures are particularly evident in families and children. Their future situation will be even worse without this trend. That is where abbreviated work week is central. Research shows that this can increase happiness, thus maintaining families, maintaining health, and thus even having a positive influence on our environment. Let's not aim to increase the rate of economic growth and to increase as much as possible the average wage. [[The president calls.]] Let us plan to create a family - oriented society that puts the most important place in the country's life and well - being.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u35	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Logi of Einarsson for this discussion of state affairs and collective contracts of public employees and including impact on fiscal budget. I also want to thank the highest. This discussion is followed by the discussion we discussed at the highest level by the prime minister for her input. recently, prime minister on the effects of biographies. Of course, it is not unlikely that the contract between parties at the general labour market will take place in terms of the terms and contracts of public employees. The biography contract is largely funded in the budget. It is particularly child support and tax change that take time to introduce and that we need to see an implementation before they come into the schedule. The biography agreement includes a higher salary and a flexible work period, a general health benefits such as lower taxes and measures that are to contribute to less growth. Government action in that contract is widespread and contributes to public reform for the whole community. Children and families are supported by prolongation of birthworm, increased child improvement, and a change in the limit of impairment. Increased contributions are available to the general home system, to pay the streets of young people at the first purchases, and to expand their ability to rent houses and support the tenure interests of the tenants'interest groups, to name something. There are, too, procedures involving pensions and social subheadings. There is a modest rise in government fees, as well as progress on strengthening and strengthening consultations on labour markets and economic policies, including with an increase of the National Economic Council. All of these are general measures to be used in government negotiations and to bring about more righteous tax systems, social housing structure, and have fallen to an even greater level of prosperity. And, yes, I want to use this concept as a matter of course. An apocalyptic, Logi Einarsson, came to this point, it's a truly social deal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u36	A respectable president. I'd like to start by thanking specifically for this important discussion and what's been mentioned a few times and maybe not a lot of time on top of it, but is, I think, one of our most urgent projects in the coming years, i.e. how we will value our secular education. We will face a growing demand for knowledge and education in which the development of the fourth industrial revolution, our competitiveness toward the road, is based on our level of knowledge as a nation. At the same time, a large number of employees in the labour market, the intermediate group, especially women's classes, will not be told that their education pays off. Just not at all. In fact, in a global comparison, the search for a Western society where education is as poor as it is in this country. We're worried about that. It focuses on the nation's basic competitiveness. For example, we reciprocate teachers for their work, and it is evident to see a certain presumptuousness that involves how much difference is made between basic teachers, as important as they are, and again as university teachers. What kind of gender would be like in those classes? Yes, about 90% of basic school teachers are women, but more of the university teachers are men. I wonder if that's the explanation. That is why a group of reverends had the prerogative to propose a pact of national opinion on improving the interests of women's classes. How disappointing it was that the present congregation member suggested that it be trimmed under the chair! Nothing has been done about it ever since. It was referred to by the government and already by the Supreme Court. A financial minister was asked earlier this spring what had been done to the case was the short answer: Nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u37	A respectable president. I thank the advisor for this fine discussion and the highest. Prime Minister for our company. What I would like to look at in this regard is the so - called residence in the index. It turns out that by 2018, in the country, inflation is about 2.8% but without housing teams 0.7%. How much interest is here for the homes of the country and for the companies of the land, for those who owe? Tremendous interests. It has now been shown that this was one of the things that was stressed in collective agreements and seemed to be that the government wanted to meet in some way. Admittedly, then, you want to know where this case is, whether there is something behind it or not, when it comes to the possibility of removing the mortgage from the index, and the landscape may be that way today. After a job market deal is probably over 90% of all workers, and it's very good, you look at these factors that have cost the lives of the country enormous money. I guess it's about 118 billion bucks. beyond what would have been if the housing team hadn't been inside the index when the years were taken in 20136/2018 and the debt of homes and businesses was greatly increased. So they would have increased about 27 billion if the staff hadn't been inside the index. I think it's an enormous interest, and since then, labor leaders have been calling for years. I feel like for the first time, there's a chance that this will be taken care of, and I hope so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u38	Mr. President. Still, we do not know whether or how a so - called biographer contract applies to public employees, apart from unsaid promises yet to be done. There is no funding in child reform plans, also in housing procedures and also to improve the system into the biofuel system. It is large classes where society is vital that work, which has been hard on people in recent years because of the benefits they offer, the work load, the work hours, and the circumstances in which they work. These are classes that work in caring for, teaching, culture, well - being. Much of these are appointed women. These are the people who are involved in making the welfare system work. Governments seem to have a range of 0.5% over inflation to improve the terms of these people. After this, 0.1% of the financial programme is an integrated staging system, which enables direct cuts in the welfare system if pay costs increase, representing expected excerpts with increased pressures and worse working conditions. Society is vital not only that these classes work but also that they enjoy their work, blossom, and feel good. Feel the value of a large and small contribution. It is one of the main programs of government today to remedy the crisis in caring for medical institutions. Then the government has to think of something different from the usual, putting temporary laws on nurses, such as making sure that they are going to throw someone else away rather than work on what they have educated themselves to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u39	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Logi of Einarsson for starting this discussion and the highest. Prime Minister for participation. I'm particularly going to look at the factors in interest, i.e. Worktime, as discussed in the discussion, there are other factors that are involved in the biography agreements, such as prolongation of birth vacations, change in housing, etc. Something that's in general and will benefit everyone. But in the public sector, there are large classes where changes in working hours would have an enormous impact on the benefits. Much of the people working at the public work at so - called eight - hour roll shifts, as it is called in the health system, and I believe that at some point, hopefully not too distant the future, we will have to set 32 hours on the rolling watch as a full - time job. I hope that the time will not be long, whether it will be during this collective contract phase that the first steps will be the score or the next. Of course it depends on both parties. As noted, this is under the great classes of women, who in the historical context have been in a relatively small pay compared with what might be called secondary classes. There we can do much better. I believe that we can change our hours of work and help with the pressures of being over eight hours rolling shifts, thereby improving the quality of these classes considerably. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u40	Mr. President. Following the biographies, many ask what happens to the life - style of a pensioner. Won't social security pensions take the same increases as the minimum wage paid? The biographies bring them the lowest paid highest elevations, a total of about 90,000. During the contract period, as well as economic growth increases. It's new and positive. In addition to social security, pensional growth rates do not exist, as we know. If pensioners have money other than social insurance, their pensions are down. Mr. President. It is public health that seniors are allowed to do some work without their pensions being compromised. In addition, it is positive for a government fund that receives tax pay from all occupations. It is the negative status of low - income pensioners, which is often worse than the status of low - paying employees in the labour market. The government receives increased tax pay from the current labour market payments, and this is sufficient for them to finance the equivalent increase in social security. Studies in older citizens have shown that nearly everyone, i.e. 97%, feel that it is easier for those who are in a pension age to be active in a job market. The older citizens' employment program brings them greater activity in the community. Increased activity contributes to the well - being and satisfaction of life and the more active older ones experience more joy in life. The government must be aware of this. They must be aware of the status, expectations, and attitudes of the elderly when it comes to job participation and its positive effects on the well - being of older citizens. [[The president calls.]] It's also an older citizen's business.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u41	The president would like to insist that it is important that the next speaker be quite prepared when he is due for a talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u42	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for the concern the President shows me. It's not the first time I felt this love, and I am very grateful for your guiding role for the council. I wasn't as happy, a respected president, with what I thought was kind of a blackout president of the United States when he started this discussion, a conversation that was due to his own time. In fact, we should be able to agree to rejoice over the success of the last collective agreements, the stability of the steps that have been taken, and the breakthroughs of the country's wage as well as the joint interest in improving the economy, increasing all the slices of the cookie. Then all the members who came to these steps now agreed to face the least of those allowed in our society, those of the lowest salary, young family members, older citizens, micro-organists involved in it, the taxation changes have a major impact on them. Apart from the fact that the greatest benefit we can achieve is stability and continued growth if things go up in the spirit of those collective agreements. A respectable president. I've told you before, these collective contracts are a turning point. [[The president calls.]] It will be very interesting to observe the trend following those who have agreed together to have the standards for the enlargement of the cookie in support of the employee in this country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u43	A respectable president. The financial programme is expected to allow government institutions to increase pay costs by 0.5% above the prices, instead of 1.5% of the previous schedule. It is important to see the difference, for in the past year, with 1.5% greater than inflation, inflation forecast has increased by 0.5% and a 0.5% reduction has been observed. Adolescent also stresses design problems in large groups of women, all of whom realize that they are payable. Thus, in view of financial considerations, there seems to be no change in plans. Thus, the policy of the present government does not solve this design problem. Yes, more teachers need to be educated, but this also requires a course that leads to teachers'working as such. It's mostly a pay policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u44	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Logi of Einarsson for calling attention to this important class and to the highest degree. Prime Minister for the indentation. It is important that health care is well designed and that multidisciplinary cooperation is successful. As with other professions, every employee is important in health care. In recent years, the lack of health care professionals has been progressive and does not provide the end of this problem. In fact, the problem with design is not limited to Iceland, since more countries have the same problem. It is estimated that hundreds of nurses are missing a job in Iceland. Moreover, much of the nursing staff is nearing retirement age, and newborns are not sufficient. This is a big challenge, and we need to search every way to ensure care for our health - care providers. This point is established in a petition for health policy to be made by 2030 and the need to focus on improving the facilities, continuing education, safety and working environment and working on the worktime and the staff's monitoring burden should be in line with best knowledge, law and dress contracts to ensure longer care for health care. This is one of the most important aspects of the health system and the key to providing both health and safety in Iceland. A respectable president. Most contracts are now cleared by the health professions of the country. There's an opportunity to review the working conditions and the working environment of a healthcare professional. Special attention should be given to working hours and to work hard at reducing work loads by health care professionals. Keep in mind that these people have a heavy responsibility, and under pressure there is an increased risk of failure. Happily, such mistakes are rare, but they do occur.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u45	Mr. President. I have always felt that politics should keep far away from debates in general and that it is actually compatible with the Norwegian labour market model, trying to maintain a clear understanding of politics and labour markets. But when it comes to women's choice of classes, it is a little interesting to observe government apathy in that regard, for we are simply in a very serious situation here. Newness in the class of teachers is completely lacking, as has been repeatedly warned, a decrease in school attendance, and the class of growing up very rapidly. What would cause? In any case, looking to the pay level of the profession is near. We cannot reach our human health system in an adequate way. It is truly amazing that when we have as important a system as our health, with as much money spent on it, we cannot properly drive it out by the pay level of the most important classes, which are the carers of the system. It's amazing that we haven't gotten along to solve the problem. Therefore, I do not understand why the government has done more with the Congress decree of restoration and other national groups to improve the quality of women's classes. Clearly, this is where the interests of the state and the employee movement go completely together. It is also quite clear when we compare the general labour market with the public that the public labour market is very difficult to deal with the women's difficult situation. This will be done only by action such as what was put into place to attack. I really hope that the government is more ambitious in this matter than it has ever done so far and attend the Senate case from the chair where it is so corrosively stored.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u46	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this discussion and the highest. Prime Minister for giving an answer. Organic contracts that have been made do not apply to micro-creatures and older citizens. It's quite clear now. The economic violence that so far has always been administered to older citizens and micropunchers will continue. It is quite remarkable that this group will always be left behind. If we look at this from the way the deal was made in these biographies, then the deal is from April 1. But should older people and the poor be raised from April 1? No. Are older citizens and disability expected to have an increase on January 1 again from April 1? No. Economic violence continues. Older citizens and cripples will continue to live on - what? A percent bill? Nobody eats 1 percent. On average? There's nothing to do with it. No, they are to be starving and calculated according to a consumer calculus to see for all time and continue to be betrayed again and again. Why are there no contracts made with older citizens and disability on the basis of others? Why, in the face of unemployment, have older citizens and disability fallen behind? Is it harder to live temporarily on unemployment benefits than permanently on the poor and the elderly? This is a requirement, and it should be required to stop kicking senior citizens and to make sure that they get exactly the same as others get in these lifetime contracts.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u47	Mr. President. First, I have to say no. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Wazowski's Víglundsson when he says that governments are not about to come to an end. You see, there are so many people who are not involved in collective agreements. I'm not critical of the contracts made at the labour market. I am criticizing government action because it will not make any fundamental changes in society. Hv. The members of the Independence Party here talked about how the dark side could be seen and the bright side could be seen. I suppose, yes, that 65,000 elderly and desperate people in the country are looking at things a little different from the 63 of us sitting in this room, simply because the situation is quite different. That's why I must reiterate a question to the highest level. The prime minister she did not answer earlier: Will the government look at the serious social security bill that will ensure the rise of the country's pay paid by older ones and microplies? A minister also entered the maternity den. I recommended a bill like that a few months ago. We're in a hurry. So why don't we finish it? It's the founding industry. It's a direct reduction in the next five years for housing support by 19%. Even if it is added only to the budget, there is far too little work to be done. The minister also spoke of a change in the tax system. I want to know, should we freeze the character discount? It does not now speak of the relative gain of the lowest paying people, but rather the most. I hope I didn't hear you wrong, and hopefully it'll give you more changes so that that that group actually gets more dollars in their wallet. Finally, the highest. Prime Minister that it should and should reevaluate the financial program, and I really hope that the government does. If not, the Conspiracy will provide the needed adjustments to achieve the worst rifts in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u48	Mr. President. Thank you. It's a great conversation for members of Congress. I'd like to mention only the manipulative problem that many have. In the medical system as well as in the school system, members have mentioned them. Admittedly, some of the problems are payable, such as why. paritaprevir This is where Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson said. Yet, there are other factors that enter there. V.E.G. A minister of education has now introduced specific measures to promote a teacher's education, for we have, of course, seen that the number of students has fallen substantially, at the same time, and we also see a certain elimination from the class. Of course, the health - care problem is upstairs, and I remind you of the medical records made in connection with BHM collective contracts, especially health care professionals. Unfortunately, though, this is not a Specialist problem. This problem is discussed in the Norwegian field, where all northern countries have a genetic problem in the health system, including Germany, Britain. At the same time, we see increasing pressures on the health system, simply because of changing populations. The problem is obviously not going, but it calls for talking about things such as working hours, which I made up of them in my previous talk, which we need to look at, because it's not only about the pay connection, it's about working conditions. The actions presented in connection with life - making contracts that can be spoken down are, in fact, going that making money is easy for people, especially for young children. I quote them to birthworm and children's improvements, since housing support is certainly being changed by other means, in order to form an increased support for early purchases at the same time as we support the development of social housing. I'd like to state that all these actions are general. They will be useful, not only to 90% of those who have made contracts for a public employment market, but also to those in a public labour market, microenergy pensioners mentioned by many. Their grand aim is to meet income - bearing groups. Of course, we will always be able to do better in this regard, and this discussion will not end. [[The president calls.]] We're in a hurry. The work is always good in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u49	Mr. President. I'm asking the highest. Environment Minister, what is the reason for proposaling a resolution on the implementation of the nature Memorial file, which was on the Minister's Constitution, has been canceled. I also ask how many parts of the General Assembly have agreed to express peace in the past 20 years, how have they handled, i.e. The peace process of which has been completed, and which of them has now been declared at peace. Then I finally ask who's planning the highest. Ministers are for simplifying and paying for the peace-telling process. As noted in the report program RUSB at the end of the last year, apparently it has been possible to follow up on the approval of the General Assembly in the past year on peace descriptions of various areas. There must be some serious situation in which Generalis wishes not to be followed and naturally that we take up the matter and ask the highest degree. Ministers on why this has not been going better and faster. It is indeed a pleasure, as shown in the media, that the Ministry and the EEA seem to have a kind of special action project, which is the best case. I suppose the highest. A minister will enter it in his reply afterwards. However, there is concern that the EEA, in fact, did not perform its duty to date, based on the information that has been published officially so far. There's an enormous number of important areas under there. I hope to the highest. A minister enters it in his answer as to why it is, whether it has been found on the foundation of money, or if there are any other reasons behind it. In this context, it is noteworthy that the implementation of the natural Memorial logs previously on the Constitution has been canceled. With consideration to the extent of the proposals for an area for which there is a reason to put on a natural memory and how much interest and ambition I know that it is. The Environment Minister has made it impossible for me to wonder what possible reasons are there why this issue has just been canceled, and I look forward to hearing answers at the highest level. Minister on that. In fact, it may be added that there is still no debate to suggest a resolution on the protection and energy use of the territories foretold by the Constitution for March 31 of the past. In addition to this inquiry, Mr. President, I would like to hear the perspective and intentions of the highest. Minister on how he's going to react. Does he believe that the funds set out for the budget of financial programmes are sufficient to bring back the natural memory and the terms of peace? We know that it is important to do better. I'm going to the top. Minister to do that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u50	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Elíasdóttir Flandrafjörður Elisdóttir for the inquiry. Peace details are especially considered in the government covenant, and it is good to have opportunities at the council to discuss them and to shed more light on their situation. The Senator asks for the state of the synopsis on the implementation of the nature Memorial logs. According to nature protection law, a minister will publish a naturalminate when the Council has agreed to agree with the Commission on a peace-lighting and peace plan, its so-called B-part, to the next five years. I made a decision to postpone it to the next legislature. Last year, the National Institute of Natural Science (Eionet) issued proposals for the Ministers of Nature to form a protection network for eco-efficiency and bird habitats, however, and a proposal for the peaceful declaration of several land mines. The procedure of organizing natural protection in the reservation has been developed in connection with the implementation of the Convention on Biodiversity as well as the Bern Treaty on Wild Plants and Animals and their territory in Europe. One of the reasons why the Senate resolution is delayed to the next assembly is that I asked for it at the National Institute of Natural Sciences that it would also do suggestions on the peace profile of caves, waterfalls, Fountains, and beyond. I expect the Agency to give them suggestions soon so that the proposals can be continued as agreed by nature protection laws, i.e. The Agency shall continue with the Commission to assess the necessary protection measures in areas to be considered for implementation and cost. This refers to measures necessary to achieve the protective objective of possible peace statements, e.g. running traffic through the areas, by stairways, for example, issuing information and setting up a guest situation. Thus, the interpretation proposal for a strategy will be held in the next Parliament's Constitution. The foundation can be divided into what the Council has agreed to express peace over the last 20 years in three. There are interpretations of the nature protection programme, new overall protection laws, changes to the law and to the synopsis of a national protection and energy efficiency programme. With the first nature protection programme, 2004◯208, the General agreed to provide a peaceful light for 14 areas of the country as well as for the Agency of Lakejörn. It was established by a law established by the General Assembly in 2007, and today it covers nearly 15% of the country. In addition, a peace description of the bird fields in Gullows and part of the bird area on Elfunes/Skeren farms, as well as the special vegetation of water and forest in the plain, of the areas agreed by the General Assembly to preserve peace with the agreed strategy. The second nature protection programme, 2009◯2013, included 11 geographical areas as well as several species of organisms, i.e. High plant, moss, fluffy and invertebrate. Of these 11 areas, two eco-efficiency areas have been declared peaceful, the peaceland in the Red Sea, and the territory in the Théoden River River, just as one geological region in the Parliament's Lyxation Act, the Langis Sea, and the surrounding region, have been expanded. At that time, the ponds of the Inner Blocks in theifthers have been declared nonviolent, but the area is the land of a tin clock that is one of the vertebrates approved by the Council for the Peace of the Council. Then, in 2004, the Allied Council agreed to accept an adjustment in the National Park of the Þingles, where it was enlarged about 200 km2. That same year, the General approved a new protection law for Mey Lake and Salmon River in the South Germany and eliminated older laws that covered the whole of Skull-Appa. According to the provisional regulations of the law, land was to be declared peacefully by older laws but not within the scope of the new law. Of the 11 territories now, three have been declared peaceful, and a fourth increase in the Lakejorkland park in the country's highlands is being introduced over the next few weeks. The General Assembly agreed in 2013 that 20 priming options in 12 areas should be included in the Framework Protection Group, i.e. that these areas should be at peace with energy generation. The transport process of five of these areas is in the final meters, and I expect to sign them in the near future. The others are worse on the road than I expect to finish off this year. Finally, during the 20 years, some 30 areas will be declared nonviolent on the basis of nature protection laws or by the change of regulations. It should be noted that members of Congress and others are working toward the establishment of a central national park. The work of the committee is on schedule and should be returned in the fall. Last summer, I appointed a group of members who represent the Environment and Resource Ministry and the EEA, and the group are now working on the peace reports of the Preservation System, the environment protection programme, and the environment under pressure of tourists. This procedure was designed to cover peace relations, and it is good to relate that the first peace description produced by that group was completed a few days ago, a bird's habitat in Akureyri, at Kollofjordur, as well as the rest. has the protection of a·gaʹpe. Then I'd also like to mention that more funding has been placed in peace reports, each year by 36 million each year since 2018.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u51	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for such an extensive answer. I don't think I've ever heard so much information coming out of the same short time. But you see, it's so incredibly important, the natural calendar, as well as the framework plan. Actually, there were a few questions at the top. A minister did not establish properly, as with the budget, and the reasons why the EEA has been slow enough. I am happy, however, that this work is being done with full intensity, and I am delighted to hear that interest. Ministers should finish this, and that this year it should be completed. Of course, we need to develop electricity, which is extremely important. Even so, it is important that we take away the areas we know and agree not to engage. This was done in 2013, as was the case with the highest power. Minister mentioned, when 20 activation options were taken out of parentheses. That is why it is so important that the next stage of the framework should come to the council so that we can make decisions about the next step. Although long - term energy policy is being won, it will not in itself deal with unique activation options or what to peace and what to not. It is so important that we work together with that work so that we can identify and make a mutual decision as to what we want and what we do not have for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u52	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you again for this fine discussion. The money that is especially taken into consideration today is just to try to speed up this process, which has certainly gone too slow in recent years. The budget has been used to increase both the number of employees involved in this work at the EEA, but also to perform various analyses that can further contribute to the more intensive implementation of this declaration. These include an evaluation of the economic effects of a peace-created region to demonstrate, at the same time as we are protecting the environment, that it is an enormously important structure of action to attack in terms of peace, or can be the case. But I just want to come on one thing at the end of this meeting and link it to a new United Nations Interim Report on Biodiversity, which appeared a week ago and on the contingency of the Treaty on a new objective before 2030. It is of utmost importance that the Icelanders take the lead in setting an ambitious goal for 2030 on the deal to work next year and that the Icelandic government is working. I have applied myself in the Norwegian field for a resolution that came from the Northern Environmental Council of April. that there will be ambitious goals by the year 2030. They need to include a network of conservation areas to protect species and ecosystems for sustainable use of resources and recovery of lost quality, both stocks, species and habitats. We, the government, are working on a plan for all these factors. That's pretty much the point. And the peace descriptions and reservations are part of that. Finally, I think I can say that the peaceful wheels have been embezzled, and they are turning. We will see the further fruitage of that work at this time in the near future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u53	A respectable president. On page 18. A 406 financial program is a very interesting and fine goal for the percentage of elderly who delay pensions through 67 years of age from 49.3% compared to 56% in 2024 and from 18.1% up to 23% in 2024. The Law on State Rights and Duty, No. However, 70/1996, the maximum is 70 years of age. In order to achieve the aims of a financial programme for government employees for more people to take pensions beyond 67 years of age and 70 years of age, these laws are likely to need to be changed. So my question is very simple: When will Ministers submit a change in that law? If not, how can these goals be achieved?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u54	A respectable president. As we have seen, one of the three aims of the 28th topic programme is to improve the activities of the elderly and to introduce an increased potential for flexible retirements. I'd like to start by saying that it is important to increase the employment of the elderly. In this case, it is designed to help elderly ones to take pensions from social security. We view the elderly at work as a valuable labor force and have experience and knowledge. Studies also show that those who do secular work are generally more healthy and have more quality of life than others are, I'm talking about a group of elderly ones. We know that over the past few years, flexible retirements have been legalized in social security. There are provisions that are relatively recently legal, but it is very important to succeed in implementing these resources in order to allow older ones to stay in the workforce. But here we are especially discussing going further in this regard. We are not particularly involved in the role of public employees in the program, although this is a valid suggestion, there are special legal matters that have to do with the maximum age. What we have done so far is to start an opinion of how it would affect rights, to form pension rights, and what laws would have to be changed to eliminate the 70 - year work end age criteria. That's what's going to happen. But right from the beginning, there are some opinions. I mention, for example. how to handle the criteria of micro-and-welven pension if the age limit is off and how it would affect the commitment of state funds to the B-marker R to this. Another is that in many of the laws, there is a legal retirement age, which is lower than this reference, which could be, for example, the case. look to police in that regard. We will need to take a stand to see if there are any reasons to reevaluate such specific rules in a law in which they have so far, although they have a certain support. Then there is an interesting fact in this context that, based on information from the LS, evolution has been more in that direction, and I think it's related to improving pension rights in recent years, that employees prefer to go to pension sooner than before. That is an interesting fact that we must take into account, whether we can achieve our goals simply by adjusting our legal standards. I would choose to be as free as possible in this, men wouldn't be made to quit if they had reached this legal retirement if they had full workers. In other words, there is evidence that the pension age of those who went straight out of pension has fallen from just over 68 years to about 67 years in the past ten years. Thus, it is a personal challenge to get employees to postpone their retirement within the boundaries of the present law code. In this light, while we're still looking at the opinions related to a particular lower work option, while we're more fully analysing this trend and how this might affect the B-invent of the LSC, a matter of opinion regarding the disability and pension, it's not yet time to state when changes in the legal retirement of the state's staff will be made. But we will continue our work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u55	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget, quite an excellent speech. What made me most happy is that he took into consideration the viewpoints of us Middle Classes regarding the bill we've submitted at the Council and is now being treated by the Economic and Business Committee that the maximum allowed age of the state workers will be increased for 73 years. This case has been established by two Parliaments and has been successfully treated by the Economic and Business Committee. We have nothing to do with neglect, my minister, to accept it as the first step, of course, as stated in the Supreme Court. Minister, to change the laws of others to make them more specific. But this is a very good first step, and it is very simple. As I said, the case is ready for 2nd. In the Economic and Business Committee, and there's no way of getting it into the Senate Hall. I'm here to welcome the secretary of finance's interest in the case, and I believe he agrees. I'd be very happy if it happened to you when the case came to 2nd. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u56	A respectable president. I appreciate the answers. At first, I'd like to say that it is not yet time to work for the increase, as shown at the top term. Minister, that goals are still being placed in a financial programme. I wondered when it would be time to go to that job if not at just the time of the schedule. I can say I have the freedom to determine the age of pension. I can also agree with the Central Party bill in this regard and wonder why my goal must be 73 years old, why not remove 70 at all? It's really just about increasing the potential for those who can and sets when the right to start a pension, regardless of when people want to stop working, and how they behave. It was interesting to hear of the more extensive problem, e.g. Officers and so, as with the fact that the B Company is a problem. It seems to be an ongoing problem when it comes to government finances. It's a question of what could be done in that department other than to finish paying or that people finish in that department because the rights that people acquired there are very long lives, unlike people's careers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u57	A respectable president. Yes, we have many opinions, but we have those goals because we feel that they are desirable. As I traced my case, I believe we can improve health and social status even as well as the happiness of those who come across this roof. I mentioned earlier that we saw in evolution that more and more people are taking their pensions out earlier and that it was going to take ten years of full - time work for those who go to full - time pensions. For this reason, I wanted to draw attention to the information we have in the history of the pension fund from 66 years of age and older, i.e. 66 plus as defined in the income history. The figures are published in solid prices, and we can see from looking at all the earnings together, and if we look at the country as far as those living with them are concerned, the pension payments have been growing quite quickly during the reference period, which is actually all back to 1991. These numbers should be considered. At that time, in 1991, according to the data, partners average with an average of less than 100,000 dollars. in 2017 biofuels at the price of the year, which is about 200,000 bucks. The range up and down the turn of the century, and then the pension fund runs high up in recent years, leaving 250,000 and up to 350,000 in the years. [[The president calls.]] This is the changing process that has occurred in relatively short time, and it is only hoped that it will manifest itself in only changing behavior. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-13-102.u58	The President has received the following program proposals and the following letters: ▪ The subscriber makes a suggestion, with reference to 1st mgr. 77st. Conventional song, for the next meeting to be as follows: 1st The full value of a vacation agreement between EFTA and the Philippines. 2. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, 3. A communication counselor for sports and youth service. 4. Shopping with alcohol and tobacco, etc. 5. Pension insurance and pension expenses. 6th Special tax to a financial company. 7. Food food. 8. Federal insurance. 9. Child protection law. 10. Environmental and resource decision committee. 11th The state of the children ten years after the collapse. 12th Medical insurance. 13th Education and treatment of histology. 14th I'm an emissary of the elderly. Signed wishes that this proposal be in accordance with the quoted articles of engagement would be given votes at the General Assembly. Under this letter, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson writes. This proposal will be presented at the beginning of the next meeting.
