ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-11-2.u1	We're moving to the highest. Prime Minister of his policy for the government and will discuss it, which will be broadcast and broadcast from the General Assembly Hall. The talks are divided into three rounds, each group has eight minutes in its first pass, five minutes in the second pass, and four minutes in the third round, while prime minister has 16 minutes in advance. The order of the classes is in all traffic: Left movement, green supply, Central Party, Group, Independence Party, Piratars, Expensitives, Expensives, Expeditions, and Groups of the People. The speakers for the left movement ◯ green supply will become Prime Minister Katrín Jacobs' Jakobsdóttir in the first round, Secretary of Health, Svandís Svavarsdóttir in the second round, and Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, 6th. Smoke. So, third round. The members of the Central Party will first pass, Sigmundur, Davíð Gunnlaugsson, 3th. That's the north side. , Ólafur Ísleifsson, the 10th. Smoke. n., second round, and Bearrs, Birgir of Þórarinsson, 3th. South, round three. The members of the United States will first pass through Logi Einar Einarsson, 5. m. That's the north side. , in second round Helga Vala Helgadóttir, 4 m. Smoke. n., and Oddný G. Harðardóttir, 6th. South, round three. The debaters for the Independence Party will be Þórdís Kolbrún R. Gylfadóttir, travel trade minister, industrial and innovation, first round, Kristján Þór Júlíusson, marine emissary and agricultural ministers, second round, and Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndótir of Justice. To Pirata, Halldóra Mogensen, 11th. Smoke. n., first round, Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Övarsdóttir, 4th. Smoke. So, second round, and Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, 11th. Smoke. S., third. For the straggler Party, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, secretary of transportation and countryside, on the first round, in the second pass of Alfreðsdóttir Alfredddddóttir, minister of education and culture, and in third round Daðason Mydason, Minister of Social Affairs and Childhood. The superintendents will be in the first round of the Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir, 7th. We're out of here. "In the second Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, 13th. We're out of here. , and on the third round, the Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson, the 7th. Smoke. n. For the Gang of the People, Inga Sæland, the 8th. Smoke. So, first and third round, but Guðmundur Inngi Kristinsson, 12. We're out of here. , in the second round.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-11-2.u2	Mr. President. My fellow Americans. We who live in Iceland have always had to rely on nature, and we have always had to be able to read nature's messages. And rarely or never, natural messages have been so clear not only here in Iceland but throughout the world: unstable weather conditions. More frequent and more powerful hurricanes. Dryer. Flood. Sea level rise. Reduction in scale sizes we've never seen before. The acidification of the sea. People on the run. Meltting glaciers. The climate is creating a crisis today in many parts of the world. It's our biggest challenge. Mankind is responsible for the situation, mankind is being threatened by it, and now mankind's greatest task is to reduce the pace of this frightening development, to minimize the damage and ensure the whole future and the life on this planet, since mankind will have no second opportunity but only the opportunity we have here and now. In such a situation, it is important to learn from the past, but the key element is now, the measures we are going to take now. I'm proud to lead a government that will provide the first funded action programme to fight the climate problem, which is about transport exchange of energy and massive carbon binding. We will use economic incentives to achieve climate targets, both green taxes and green invitations. The government's food policy is seeing today in the winter, with climate targets, including public health and sustainableity. We have decided to prioritise funding for climate change research, and the strategy itself will be continuously reviewed according to scientific findings. None of this is simple, and we will have to make changes as we go on, but we are certainly moving in the right direction. I welcome the increased consciousness that protects the public as to the importance of adding our weights to the scales. However, we cannot expect the public to see the whole battle going on. Governments, governments, communities, employment drivers, and the labor union must pull the wagon. A concerted effort is essential to our attaining real results. Last week, especially in Reykjavík, where traffic jams and rainbow flags made their appearance to the city's life. But the visit also opened up an important discussion of Iceland's dealings with the superpowers of the world, security and peace, military building and climate crisis. This discussion must continue here at the council and in the general community. I strongly emphasize that the climate problem will not be solved by the old - fashioned presentation of the Cold War. Rather, it requires international cooperation, with everyone sitting at the table. That is why we, the Icelandic government, put the environment first in our lead strategy in the Arctic Council and use every opportunity at the international level to set climate issues on schedule. My fellow Americans. This spring, biographies were reached in the general labour market. These agreements were made more clearly by the government than previously used to, and all government action aims to increase social stability. We will reduce the tax burden on the most income - dependent groups by implementing a three - step tax system. This change will eventually increase the equation and improve the benefits of the worst. By the end of our contracts, representatives of the labor movement put special emphasis on the hurrying of these changes, so the government now suggests that they will be introduced in two years, not three, as expected in a financial program. It's important to balance the terms of this country. A recent report shows that too many children live in poverty in Iceland. It is also particularly happy that among the activities that governments proclaim during the winter, the first step is to extend the birthworm from nine months to 12. It will, along with the government's decision to raise child reforms and to increase child - welfare limits, greatly improve the benefit of a child's family. Both are important to equalize the terms of our good country. There are factors in housing, but the problem of housing has been over, and everything has taken place since collapse. With support for building social housing by the labor movement, resources to support the first buyers, measures to ensure long-term housing supply, and increased government perspective and housing policies, we are already seeing results. It would be equal in our country to ensure that a roof over our heads and safe havens, but at the same time it will ensure proper choice and variety of housing. Following the biographer agreements, the bat has reduced the control height by one percentage, which is a huge interest concern for the entire public. At the same time, government officials increase public investments in the economy as a result of hairy failure and a crash of air traffic. Governments will live up to their expectations. But that is not the end of the work. It is a pleasure to have the first meeting of a new national economy held in October with representatives of the overall workforce, state, rural society, and the Federal Bank. I have reason to expect that a conversation between the government and the workforce will have a clear focus that will have a positive effect on economic and social stability. Then winter governments will offer proposals for the fourth industrial revolution and its impact on the Icelandic labour market. A recent report published by the Ministry of Presidency found that among those employed in the Icelandic labour market in 2017, there were only about 14% jobs where there is a low probability of self - efficiency. Other jobs will change or even disappear, but new jobs will also exist. And remember that people of a generation of grandparents - I'm talking about myself - certainly not going to be a ibam teacher or a programmer, since they were not involved. You see, in many ways, we are well - equipped to cope, but we need to expand our investment in innovation and increase the opportunity to pursue new education and to move to work. You will see that the mind of the ass is lost, although Iceland's professional creations have not taken enough of this into account over the years. The challenge will be to increase the value in all sectors, while ensuring that the benefits of the technological change are distributed in a just way, that ordinary people enjoy their fruits with shorter weeks of work and improved markets, and that changes in employment markets will not be allowed to impair the rights of workers who have been fighting for so long. Now in September, a government group will submit laws on how to expand jobs for people with limited government ability. These suggestions follow the approval of the General for some social and child - care bill to reduce the breakdown of microenergy pensions that has long been the struggle of micro-life recipients. Healthcare Ministers have set priorities for elderly and microenergy pensioners in their programme to reduce the health - care costs of patients, on the one hand, by canceling the costs of the elderly and incubating health care professionals and by large increases in dental services for this group. During this election period, significant improvements in human rights have been made, and further action is waiting. In the spring, which is a great step forward, during this council, I submit a sex-insurrection strategy and a judicial committee is working on the proposal for a complete improvement in the sexual tolerance of sexual offenders. For the next week, this will be held in the country under the leadership of Iceland in the Norwegian Ministerial Committee of the International Conference for the #methoo movement that exposed the established culture of the sex system. The discussion that will take place there is a tremendous deal of importance, both in international context and then in Iceland where we have - despite all international measurements and recognition - still far off by reaching full equality with the sexes. All the things I've talked about here are about the standard of living and the quality of life of the public in the country. What, though, are the quality of life, and how can these be measured? A simple measure of national product is not enough, we need a more varied instrument. Let's imagine, for example. how much it reduces children's stress from extending birthworm, how it affects the quality of life in these people, or how much economic opportunities are involved in improving the education of immigrants or the application instruments involved in becoming independent of imported energy donors. We want to set up a more broad range of standards, and therefore Iceland is officially co-founded with New Zealand, Scotland, and other countries on what is called a global economy in order to support government policies and financial support in a broad range of success goals. Our quality of life has been based on the fact that we live on a rich and productive land for centuries. The treatment of the energy resource has been extensively discussed in the past few weeks and months. It shows the great need for the General to change the constitution, especially in terms of national resources and that the Constitution will be environmentally relevant to resource use. It should be top priority to make sure that all the good things nature has given us belong to us all - whether the water, the earth, the wind, the sea, or anything else. The proposals for such constitutions were opened earlier this summer, and I expect work to be done later this year. This will also include proposals for a clearer set of laws on land and land metabolism, including decision to take into account national and water rights. The good people of the country. Many senators were accused of treason in discussions about the third energy package or were called killers for supporting new pregnancies that strengthen the self - determination rights of women over their own body. Overwhelmed to news and sometimes at the expense of objective discussion. In many parts of Europe, the political movement of fish is growing around the spine, undermined by human rights, and weighed against immigrants. Being reasonable will be more and more exhilarating for the unscrupulous coming to power and promoting the contempt of the common people of politics, sects, democracy, and Congress. A recent survey in Britain showed an increasing sensitivity of the public to a strong leader who will not allow rules to bind him, as it was said. On the other hand, I have firm faith in the Senate. I believe that the people choose between democratic political parties based on set values and stand for a certain course. I also believe that political reasoning and conflict can eventually turn up good compromises needed in a democracies community and inevitable in a multiorganized government. So far, we have been blessed here to stand up for specific baseline values that are threatened in many parts of the world. There aren't very many people around here who are defending politicians in the second, but I'm gonna do it here. I view democratic political movements as the only foundation for democracy where the place is a guard of human rights, of the rights of those who are in favor of their feet and democratic institutions. We are blessed to be here in Iceland when we have established laws on the finances of political parties that increase transparency and make sure that there is a level of conflict between interests. And in the context of the nations, there are opportunities for political participation in Iceland, which is positive. However, we need to be on guard against changing political working environments, especially efforts to achieve power and influence through anonymous propaganda of new media if the effort remains to ensure the transparency that is the foundation of democracy. My fellow Americans. Traveling in Iceland during the summer months is nothing like enjoying nature, light, color, and human life. Having this country is part of our great privilege here. In this country, we don't need visitors, celebrities, or no-names. Granted, a difficult reduction in tourism has been made after the bankruptcy of a large airline in us, but the economy, as well as the community, was well prepared to cope with the challenge. During the summer trip, I felt interest and inspiration, zeal, and a positive attitude in traveling workers. That same parishion is where I can find most jobs in Iceland. I started my speech today by discussing the biggest challenge of the climate. As a community, we are privileged to be delighted to have both professional and professional leaders, as well as the labor movement, take part in the work done by governments and the public. You see, Iceland is the best thing in the world in this and the other, but we can get even better. And that is what all of us here should be able to agree. The 75-year-old Republic of Iceland is designed to add to each trial. That's why I'm proud to be part of this society in which we deal with various issues and stand together in times of trial, in which we don't face challenges but struggle with them. There is nothing to fear, it is the common challenge to all of us who share the common desire to live in this country. And we are not smaller or greater than Icelanders, although our background is different. Although our views may differ, we are not smaller or greater in Iceland. We are not smaller or more Icelanders, whether we're with or against the energy package. Whether we live in a country or in a city, we are not smaller or greater than Icelanders. We're all Icelanders. Our primary obligation is to our community, and that is the basic obligation that makes us one nation. It's the one that makes us all Icelanders and on the team that wants to do what's best for their society is the most valuable thing. Let's not forget it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-11-2.u3	President. The new office manager of the Generals. Good citizens of the country. We knew what was set up when the current government began. It was clear that this was a government product of chairs and not of policy. When set out on that basis, it is inevitable to appear in pseudopolis, while the administrative, national, and foreign systems leave the lines and control. The prime minister stressed climate issues in his speech. True, they are important and important, but they share it in common with other matters that attract the attention of those who speak most of them often approach them in the wrong way. The World Meteorology Agency recently warned of climate fanaticism. It is not to form the right thing that prime minister has claimed that hurricanes have become more frequent and more powerful than ever. The difference is that today much more is now built in areas where hurricanes are most common, and the damage is more common. To cope with such major solutions as threats to the environment, we need to use science and reason instead of using pseudopolis and shovels in ditches and not invent new penalties, any names they are given, the taxes which do not have any other effect than to add a spell to the public, raise the prices and bites on the income. As a result of using harmful measures in the name of environmental protection, local agriculture is being developed from all angles. One of the best ways to cope with environmental problems is to promote domestic environmental food production. Instead, it is made difficult, opening into the import of antibiotic-induced food from foreign commercial factories. The command system in Reykjavík has its share, but agriculture throughout the country is cut down. It should therefore be welcomed that the government has discovered the fourth industrial revolution and will enable companies to cope with it. But the best way to do this is to give companies the right motivation and set them free. The reality we see, however, is an ever - increasing order and obstacle. At the same time, the tax system continues to be complicated. A few years ago, the hope - inspiring minister of finance announced that the tax system would be simplified and the number of tax steps dropped from three to two. The same minister now announces that the system will be mixed up again and the steps will rise from two to three. However, older citizens and other pensioners still have to wait for promises of a more reasonable pension system to be fulfilled and to be properly addressed to unwise and unnatural failures. Even so, the government does not need to discover new names on things in the way of orwellish politics. Today, so - called prosperity economy is presented with instructions that it will be achieved by policies and budgets that support the prosperity aims. That work will likely call for many new renovations and even more supervision in most fields, but as members were reminded of yesterday's sermons, human efforts to organize God's Kingdom can end badly. Such experiments are likely to bring, not prosperity, but miserable economic conditions. At the same time, socilic winds float over the lakes of this government. The prime minister announced that even the wind should be in charge. I don't think any governments anywhere have thought of that in a later era. The building project of the large part appears to be displayed in concrete boxes in Reykjavík. Based on a large box at the Board of Directors, a much larger box at the General Assembly and huge boxes will be added to the old Land Hospital on Ring Road. The prime minister discussed political developments in his speech. I can agree with what the minister said about the politics and importance of Congress. Sadly, though, the experience in this regard has not been good during this terms. The president of the council has taken the Senate freely, not to the limit. At the same time, a government that is formed not by policy but by chairs. The lack of influence on the smallest group in this government is likely to surprise no one anymore, since the organization has long shown that it exists in anything but if it is available, and it appears happy to be allowed to review the same subject over and over again. However, I have been more surprised to see what the Independence Party is acting on the side of the government class. The independent party had a minister who was entitled to be political and seemed to follow a certain course. Left green, however, was responsible for bringing them a minister from the government. The government's patrol seems to have more leeway than the rest to run its politicians. Environmental Ministers will be able to implement their own policies without regard to the law. The health - care minister is working to establish a Marxic health system, which at the same time provides two health systems. And the prime minister makes his affairs pass, making a statement that you would have thought would even be frightening to government colleagues. To cope with the solutions that await us and to take advantage of the opportunity, there is a need for greater understanding in Icelandic politics. Now, at the beginning of the Council of 150th, the Central Party will present its main focus in a new council. We will then provide solutions accordingly. Unlike the government's introduction today, it will be a practical solution based on facts.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-11-2.u4	Mr. President. V.E.G. The prime minister took a few steps aside from the handling of the government in terms of equalizing, while unnecessaryly few were involved in the second, the toxic effects of increasing property balance on communities, including Iceland. Some may be tempted to say that everything in this place is in order, but it does not interfere with just looking at the situation. Imagine a snotary block on a large scale. The building contains 20 apartments, of different sizes, all types of residents. Most people are good, some are poor, but one family is rich and has the highest authority. Interestingly, one apartment is equal in the 19th. And while the property is exclusive, most of the owner uses her brother's side and grows a Truffle mushroom and sells it. He uses it to buy an ever larger portion of the property he rents back to the people. Although the block looks good on the outside, the maintenance of shares is poor, e.g. that the inhabitants of the lower hills not participate in the repairs, and that there be no peace with the way into the treasure. We can call this block the National Home. Everything cut and cut on the surface - a good average - but when you see a marked injustice. Although it is a joy to see that the labor movement has brought down low and medium income, it is crazy to make it walk all the way down the stairs. Instead of allowing violent people to contribute more fully to the well - being services made up of a cool system of things. The more detailed people who did not enjoy the rise are going to have trouble, while the 5% with as much as the other 95% run calmer waters. My fellow Americans. A single mother should not create a marvelous problem if her child's coat is lost, children should not be on the run between school districts because of an unscrupulous tenet, old people should not have to say no to medical care for money and low-payers, nor should those who don't have little food for the last month. Young people do not come to the closed doors of the system, children who are looking for escape do not seek to live in a cynical uncertainty as a result of a cynical policy, and women should, of course, have no less pay than men. Nor should a few be deprived of culture, art, sports, and other things that are not only spices in the bread but also essential to man and oxygen, sleep, and water. It's also poverty, Mr. President. This is the situation in Iceland today, though. The prerequisite for economic progress and good society is that each individual will be provided with conditions to cultivate his or her talents and use in behalf of his own well - being, his community, and his future generation. This, however, requires that the rules of the game be applied to public interest, not to the few special interests. We need a new constitution and a chance to participate in a global work that can provide us with greater security, greater quality of life, variety, and wide horizons - not to mention a constant currency. The government does not present any basic actions that will alter the current situation. The economy is on the basis of the Independence Party, and this will not bring us closer to the most prosperous goals. Prime Minister spoke of it earlier. Mr. President. V.E.G. The prime minister rightly mentioned an emergency as a result of man - made disasters that are added to other threats, inequities, and wars. In times where there has never been a greater reason for cohesion of the facts, denial of human rights, fostering fear and suspicion, and fostering disagreements - also in our part of the world, also here in Iceland. Yet, the government does not trust to take action on climate issues that fulfill our international commitments. And instead of further declaring cooperation with European countries that lead to climate action, they are more likely to be able to cooperate with superpowers with leaders who see short - term benefits in chaos. We are in the midst of a digital technological revolution that is changing our existence completely. Jobs are gone, changing, and others come into existence. New technology will have no borders, and we have nothing to say whether we are involved or not. Granted, new knowledge and technology can lead to greater production, lower sot track, and poverty, but technology can also have negative results if we do not respond properly. The wealth could get even fewer hands, both in countries and in large companies of foreign lands and in government incomes, to be unable to live up to a common service that guarantees a quality of life and security to the public. The most obvious response is to make fundamental changes in the tax system in favor of equations, big investments in education and intelligence, as well as support for innovation. A new financial bill, however, shows that the government does not have a vision to do that. Even education contributions are down. Mind is our most precious resource and only one that is inexhaustible. Recent discussions about other resources, the energy, shouts that the nation's will for a new constitution will be respected. And the highest. The prime minister may want to remind her that she formed a government with two categories that fought violently against a new constitution some years ago and that it was unlikely that they had changed their minds. My fellow Americans. The flatness and the lowest coronation are not effective in the face of the giants of the day and the radical changes needed. It is beautiful as it may seem to be in order to form a government over a lengthy political spectrum, that is simply not enough today. In fact, politicians often attend interviews, saying that while they do not always agree on roads, they are not alone in their goals. However, apart from the fact that there is a conflict that reduces the risk of targeted measures, there is no agreement between Icelandic political parties and goals. Some political groups have, e.g. neither interest nor intention to attack injustice nor injustice. My fellow Americans. While we await an unusually complex subject, it is sometimes said that the most brilliant of solutions will arise under the most harsh of circumstances. A government inconsistencies and indiscriminateness that does not agree on ways or goals will not be able to offer them solutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-11-2.u5	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. I'm telling you, we're all feeling a little bummed today. Last night we lost to Albania in football with a goal number I'd rather name. Albania is approximately Approximately eight times more country than Iceland. How could it be that we are in the position to feel frustrated about losing for eight times as many as a nation? Of course, 11 of each team are, but more large nations should normally have more good players than we do. Of course, this is not because we are so overly good at natural football. No, it's because in Iceland we cherish each person's abilities. In the United States, an unusual proportion of individuals have the opportunity, space, situation, and support to develop their abilities to the full. If this ratio could be calculated, I'm sure we'd have one of the highest possible things. And this is more important than most, that we get the most out of human life by creating soil and an environment where people have an opportunity. One of the most important roles of the political element is to make sure that society is in this way. Of course, the public is not responsible for individual happiness. But it is important to give as much as possible, not only with expenses that require more taxes, but also through minimal communication, thus providing active activity and a means of recovery. We do this primarily in behalf of the individual himself in order to maximise his happiness, the standard of living, and the quality of life, but we do it as well for all of us because this is one of the things that makes society good and successful and rich in the broadest sense of that word. Good citizens of the country. A few days ago a financial minister introduced the government budget for the next year. One of the main news in the bill is that income taxation is reduced more rapidly than previously to achieve its full decline in 2021. What does this mean for the public? Yes, their provision of income increased by over 120,000 dollars. every year. A total of 21 billion each year will be returned to taxpayers or, in fact, will stop taking this money away from them. This is about one tenth of all income taxes by individuals, which is why there is a gross reduction in taxation for the benefit of all. In addition to the reduction in income taxes, a subsequent portion of the 0.5 percentage points reduction in insurance costs, with a decrease of 0.25 percentage points at the beginning of 2019. It supports sectoral development and business markets by thus reducing the tax on enterprises by 8 billion dollars. Not only are we lowering taxes but we are also making large investments in the infrastructure, including those in the United States. ... witha big campaign on the road. Such investments are both urgent in themselves and respond well to the trend in the economy. Investments will thus be about 50% higher in the next year than they were in 2017 on solid prices. This is a marked infusion rate. And what's more, and fortunately, we can afford this. In addition, we are increasing our donations for many of the issues, especially health and social matters. Further maternity rates and higher child support, help with housing, nursing care, nursing facilities, and incentives to contribute to the employment of the elderly. There might be other examples. A campaign of energy exchange, mentioned by the Prime Minister, is close to mine. There we are taking big steps to meet the future and making sure that we will remain on a global lead when it comes to using ecological energy instead of fossil fuels. This is positive for the world's climate. That's a good thing for Iceland's image. This is positive for air quality in our closer environment. That is positive for the national energy security. That's a good thing for the economic balance of the country. And it is positive for each individual's gift of bread. But as important as it is that our main social support systems are strong, it is quite clear that we cannot continue to make large contributions to them at their present rate of inevitability. We cannot be like the car manufacturer who only expands the engine and increases its fuel use in order to obtain more horsepower. We need to increase efficiency in a smarter and more visible way, look for new ways, eliminate waste and increase efficiency in these systems. It is not a simple task, and it is not always popular, but it is necessary if we are to afford to render future generations as good and as better service than we do today. The budget can't be our primary measure of success, as I think we in this room all too much talk out of it, that it's measured only in it, as opposed to the car being the best to spend the most gas. We have to look more closely at how far we got on the cane. My fellow Americans. I want to end up with some words of confidence in the United States and the politics. Of course, it is unacceptable that the Council is among the institutions of the community of which the public least trusts. We senators and I need to take a look at ourselves in this regard, but we ourselves have the greatest responsibility, but I also want to challenge the people not to be offended by politics. If we as citizens stop watching because we've failed the crap, stop participating, stop expressing ourselves, even stop choosing, we just leave space on the stage that others will take advantage of. And that conclusion will be even less appealing to us. Of course, politics are not to be too prominent in daily life, but most people say their opinion in one way or another - the widespread participation in this large social talk is to my judgment one of the most precious characteristics of our society, and they give us a far better conclusion. Rather than give up and leave those who have the highest and the largest words to use, let us continue to have faith in our ability to produce sound conclusions together. I am proud to be part of a government that is formed on a broad scale, making it a direct requirement for those who believe it to have a good conversation, political reasoning, to look at things in other ways, in a new way, to reach a decision, and to make decisions. It has already produced tangible results for the nation and can still be expected, as can be seen from the proposed plans and future Parliaments are being used to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-11-2.u6	Dearest nation. The piranha have been calling for system changes ever since the institution, and there is a real need for system changes in Icelandic society. But change is not to be merely a matter of change; it is important to have a clear view of the future. We do little by simply fighting against the prevailing realities. We must build a new model that replaces it out - of - date, offers new realities, builds up rather than tear down. As we reflect on progress today, most of us think about technology. Cars, computers, the fourth industrial revolution, space travel and rubber boots. But progress also involves social change based on radical vision. Not long ago, it was laughed at the advanced concept of women's voting rights, of the end of slavery, and of democracy itself. All these ideas are for today. Thus, a radical vision of the future has often been necessary for progress. Therefore, my dear people, I will ask you to listen to a vision of the future that gives me hope and is the motivation for me to stand here and give this speech. Imagine not having to limit our lives on the grounds of earning money, getting ends together. Imagine that basic needs, such as food, clothing, shelter, and health, had been established. How would we use our time? What is the first thing we can think of? Whether the dream is opening up a company, developing a new idea, devoted your life to art, or helping others - how many opportunities do we have? How much time and energy do we have left behind eight hours of work and two hours of driving to work, to pick up our children, and to do business? For those of us who have no backland and no economic safety network, the pressures of scraping between pay priors can be almost unbearable. Imagine being able to lay them down, going forward lightly, and fearlessly entering the future. Let us imagine what it was like to live with the assurance that even if we fail, we can pay the bills, that the basic development is guaranteed. The possibility of making a mistake and learning from it is worth far more than we realize. The road to true knowledge is filled with failings and constant adjustments to them over and over again. But most of us do not have the freedom to make mistakes and move on. Where would we be today as a community if we were to live with true freedom, the kind of freedom that a loner can spring from our ability to make decisions based on what we want to do, what we choose to do in order to prosper, instead of the kind of freedom we are forced to do, to survive as the reality of many people in our society? Dearest nation. V.E.G. The prime minister speaks in his talk about political and democratic movements that undermine human rights and promote the public's contempt for politics and democracy. My concern is the prime minister of this development. It will be more urgent each day to cope with the root causes of the problem. History shows the cost of inactivity. But is it not true that much of the world's inhabited earth enjoys economic and social insecurity used by political leaders and movements, fueling fear and hatred, and encouraging the subversion of existing systems without molding a vision of what is to be replaced? This is not a vision of the future, just a stage of the earth, and some kind of vague message of returning to the past. Dearest people in the country. Piratar and I have given much importance to ensuring all citizens of unfounded fundamental progress. We know that when a person's basic security and financial independence are assured, it will improve the spiritual and physical health of those who enjoy security. Loyalty to basic progress increases the freedom of the citizens. Societyal activities grow and the acquisition of knowledge becomes more than simple instruments for remuneration. Time and space are available to care more and more than to draw out life. The value of self - sacrifice and tolerability strengthens and becomes stronger along with a more powerful human rights protection. Dearest nation. The world's economy is based on the cowardly idea that continuous economic growth is the only thing that communities need to thrive. Truly, economic growth is a part of the equation, but it has also produced an inequities, elevating climate, damage to nature, and reduced social skills. This economic growth process fuels polarisation and plutonium and prevents combined action in climate. The growth model has brought about the deterioration of real progress. We're simply stealing the future, selling it in the present, and we call it gross domestic product. Hearing the highest brings me great joy. Prime Ministers talk about the economy. I'm saying this in absolute sincerity, because I believe this is a new ideologies that could make our community better. In contrast with the present system, the concept of prosperity is that economic systems are intertwined with society and nature. These are integrated systems that depend on one another. The more economic growth is involved in certain operations, but it is not sufficient to justify it. Well - known is the conclusion of many factors, good spiritual and physical health, equalizing, fairness, positive social connections, and flourishing ecosystems. The welfare economy ensures that the citizens of the state have respect for the people in our community and respect for the natural world that is hosting them. Dearest people in the country, Hestv. In his talk, the prime minister said that our basic duty is to society. Although the idea of evolution is not new, it rarely rhymes with the ideals of powerful politicians in the early 20th century that society is the kind of officer we serve. Actually, I think the basic obligation of society must be to the people it commands. We are to design a society that contributes to a lasting life for all of us, that everyone's basic needs are at hand, without robbing the future of future generations, that there is an opportunity for each individual to grow and thrive, and to benefit from social progress. On one occasion, this radical vision of the future was overwhelming, but hopefully not all of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-11-2.u7	Mr. President. Good citizens of the country. In recent years, progress has been a progressive team of cooperation, yes, which has a clear policy on cooperation that he takes into the government and has strongly influenced Icelandic society, following it over 100 years. The story of the Party is interwoven with the history of a nation. The nation's most important interests, especially in the field of employment, health, and education, have been followed. The pursuit has also brought together different forces to cooperate with the country and nation. During the mid - term period, there is an opportunity to look back and to reflect on the effectiveness of the government of the advance, independent party, and left movement, under the leadership of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir. As early as the last winter, this unique political combination produced tremendous results when workers signed biographies in which the government's arrival was crucial to achieving stability results. The benefits are especially seen by growing, which is one of the main stakes in the country. And now all elements work in the same direction, government affairs, money policy, bargains. The joy of the collective agreement was that everyone believed in the government's policy that stability and decline could be achieved. During the following months, the government will see its part of the agreements when the General Assembly presents a decrease in income tax, especially in low and intermediate groups, primes supporting tenants, and increased support for property purchases, to name something. Ministers of the advance have done a good job. Education, teachers, teachers, and teachers have been promoted by the minister of culture and culture, and the results are especially seen in increasing attendance at teachers. In the winter, we will then see the success of the Minister in the complete conversion of the loan system to students who will mean more support and greater equations and will ensure equality for learning regardless of the economy and habitat. Yeah, it's a progressive policy. Furthermore, the child - care minister puts great emphasis on improving the circumstances of children and parents, which can be seen best because soon the important step will be extended to 12 months. In this regard it is proper to remind us that it was just the minister of the advance that at the time made the mother's womb a reality. The minister is also working on solutions that are to address the lack of housing in the country. Of what the government has accomplished, it is especially satisfying that health policy was adopted during the last assembly, which has to do with the last most recent terms under the leadership of the advance. It is human right for all to have access to health care, regardless of their economic, status, or residence. The minister of health has gone through the country, introduced it, and now the induction is about to begin. Good citizens of the country. The prosperity of the Icelanders has especially come from the land and its use. Therefore, it is important, and my heart is near, to give loyal support to Icelandic farmers and their farms. It was particularly enjoyable to see the progress issue of approval of protecting the public health of the Icelanders and the health of the animals during the last council, thereby preventing the import of infected food from the future, as well as the very large contribution of its carbon trajectory. Today, Iceland is working on the lead of the nations in fighting against the spread of antibiotic resistance with food, which is one of the greatest threats to human health today. The earth's affairs will be focused on the next few months, but it is urgent to set clear rules for buying and selling on earth. Trends of the past few years are completely unacceptable. A country is not like any other real estate. We must look to neighboring nations about how earth's affairs are best equipped. I would especially like to look to Danmers and Norway, who have a rigid soil cover and have had it for a long time. At the same time, they recognize that it is necessary to have clear guidelines, since land is not like any other real estate. The quality of life and opportunities of those living outside the capital area are based on the reasonable use of the land, its resources, and the interaction with protection, sustainable use. There is no room for economic developments to develop in the country. Iceland is truly a good host, but the land and nature are not just for visitors, domestics, and abroad. It is also for those who choose to make homes for themselves and to build operations far and wide throughout the country. The settlement does not want and should not be a collection of civilization and nature past. The landscape wants and, like any other Icelander, can be involved in modern and future developments, even in innovations, as well as in the aspects of the fourth industrial revolution, since all of us can. Transport has been taken firmly since the beginning of the season. There has been a dramatic reversal and a wave of major efforts in every area around the country. We see that the aims set out in the government covenant to speed up structure are being realized, whether in the country or in the capital area. With increasing energy exchange in transport, we look forward to a new era of financing to the road system, reflecting the use of the highway system, and a fair speed bill to speed up larger projects. This work is being done to strengthen the structure of international and public transport. Mr. President. Good fellows. Iceland is about a number of exemplary communities, which generally place high priority on the prosperity and quality of life in the world, sharing top marks with our neighbors in the North countries. And what is it that we put at the top? Yes, good health, good communication between people, housing, security, and employment. This is important to all of us, as is education, democracy, and human equations. The government has a clear view of the quality of life and opportunities in Iceland and its ambition to do more and more. You see, living in Iceland is good.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-11-2.u8	The season is half-time, a respectable president, and even though we at Reunion are members of the nation's Congress, we reflect in our activities at the World Council of Life on a number of people who want clear and steady progress, a powerful welfare system, a powerful education system, a wide variety of employment life, all on the basis of freedom, equality, open society, and international cooperation. That's what we were for. At this milestone, we share joy with the people who are on our side, and we are grateful. According to polls, the restoration has nearly doubled in the season, and the construction has added more votes than any other category. This is a clear message for us. There is a desire to abandon the stillness of the covenant, which the prime minister gave in the beginning of the discussion. It is a wish that liberal forces in the center will be more effective in building progress on the basis of open - mindedness. And these are the desires we listen to. All we need to do is watch a few of the factors in order to see why the spirit of liberalness is on the move and restoration grows. Consider some examples. Left green came into this government with the greatest promise of health reform ever made. What news do the people of our country see as the ideal period is half over? The answer is: More news on the closing than ever, more reports on the continuation of action than before, reports that a nine - year - old boy waited a few days for an arm fracture surgery. And more news on the waiting list. But you could say the highest. To the credit of a health minister, she has written all the big promises very closely into her medical program until 2030, in a very good foundation language. In less than one language, it means that she has packed her promises with neat words, put them in a box, and tied them in with a silk leaf. The call card tells you that the package should not be opened until the third term from now on, not first, but third term. In Icelandic society and in Icelandic health care, Europe has long played an important role. These communities are brier in the eyes of a minister. In closed back rooms, she has her officials force them to swallow unconvinced short-term contracts, which are insurance insurance only for stock agreements. The interests of patients are replaced by a political minister of increased territories, even where there is no need at all. This plan does not wait in the box opening at 2030. For this reason, free persons involved in rehabilitation, aging services, or cancer screening are under duplication. And the court lists serve their famous servants for the progressive territories. And the Independence Party is good too. Few nations are as dependent on the world as they are on it and on Iceland. We need to export most of what we produce and buy from abroad most of the things we consume. In addition, we have to negotiate with other nations about our country's defenses. How has the government been able to hold up and defend Iceland's foreign interests? That's quick. The backland of the largest administration party is broken when it comes to defending Iceland's involvement in the internal market of the European Union, which is the largest and most important European Commission on a joint market and, of course, takes the first place around consumers near and far away. When it comes to defense, the backland of the government's leadership is bound by long past Cold War ideas. But what is the result? The answer is obvious. Governments with these kennels are too weak to protect Iceland's interests and reenact in order to respond to the call of a new era. At best, it is a relief of the same condition. She doesn't come forward, she's in circles. The weakness was made clear in the energy package, but due to a major body of members, the government took two years to generate the energy package, despite the overwhelmingly more part of a council. For the job and labor movement, this is a sobering thought, especially for future generations. Iceland, like other nations, now has to choose whether to develop the link between international cooperation, such as the EU, or to return to a two - sided British - American relationship. The government groups, on the other hand, sit in the center of the salt salt salt and do not know their own smoldering advice. And when one brief meeting with an important circle of friends is held, the aimlessness, confusion, and the message we have in Iceland are going to be unclear. Of course, how the government managed to get into trouble with two major powers at the same brief meeting? Prime Minister is now calling for a support for the resource regulations in the constitution. I agree completely with the end of the resource directive the key to ensuring the national partnership on its resources. But what is prime minister doing with it? The answer is this: Because the government is conceived of inexorably, it wants a law that says nothing beyond what the general law has long recommended. To make the nation's share really work, at least to make two changes, one to bind private partners at a time and the other to pay fair resource fees for their value. Just an attempt to mislead people is the desire of the prime minister for a governmental saying that will not address this subject. Thus, the legacy of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir could be to promote the same condition and to try to convince the nation to believe, through a flash film and PR culture, that something has been accomplished. Once again, my fellow Americans, public interests will be replaced by special interests. In fact, such a stillness as left green is concerned with protecting that they do not even take the initiative to change the long out - of - date whale policy of the Icelanders. My fellow Americans. Being a person is a responsibility. Being a political person is a responsibility. Hence, it is irresponsible to sit in a government that chooses quietness, for the situation is not an antidote to extremes and setbacks, let alone the movement for the future. During our restoration, we will fearlessly and firmly fight the rise of extremes and isolation forces, wherever they may be found, against those who do not put human rights in first place, deny climate change, undermine precious international cooperation, or use every kind of social coercion. We have also shown that whether they come from the government or from others based on freedom, equality, and justice to the common people, we support urgent issues. And we're perturbing. That's how we're working on national interests, and that's how we're going to keep working.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-11-2.u9	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. Here I am at the beginning of the third legislature from the election of the people's party at your council. What Has Changed? What has been accomplished? What has happened to the social groups established by the people in an effort to fight for and to try to help out of poverty? I have to admit, it's almost nothing. In fact, it is more painful than tears to stand here and shout for a decrease in taxation on the rights of about 10,000 k. in two years at the same time as the people of the country are invited to observe that the presidents of government companies, bank managers, and others have scraped in well over a million each month. But, yes, it's okay for those who get 242,000 bucks. Now after taxes, it can be proud to have 252,000 in two years when this wonderful welfare government has turned it over to the poor people it is preaching here and now. To think there's still a shortage of more than 10% of children in this room, that there's a waiting list. There are old people who can't afford to seek medicine, buy drugs, and a great deal of poor children now spend half a month on the 25th package. Is it healthy? Is it our freedom and the healthy we are offering our young children? Yes, that is exactly what it is. Government government by government has unscrupulously set up the system we live in today, and it has been totally dishonorable to maintain the poor as much as it is, far too much of the population living today. Is there anything to do with this? Yes, there is something that can be done. Of course, there should be a willingness to act here. Of course, all creations can be done, only if we stick together and act instead of speaking here and pretending to be great. People's parties have solutions. I've told them many times. The people have come up with their ideas, some have walked, others have been taken together. That's fine. But why are we still taxing poverty? Why are we still setting priorities for money so that much of the population suffers from lack? The economist report was published in the beginning of August, covering the market status of employees in the Icelandic labour market. What's the situation? You know that? You know, my fellow Americans, that the situation is that about 50% of all Icelandic employees have 441,000. in a month or less for taxation, please note. Get paid over 300,000 bucks. What is a large part of these family members with children? What can these parents and those employees give to their children? Maybe it's the highest. Ministers of industry and innovation proclaimed earlier, freedom to enjoy themselves as individuals, freedom to dominate sports, freedom to be themselves? No, they do not enjoy freedom, they live in bondage to poverty, and that is why. The Senate never seems to intend to understand. It's as simple as that. Is it not for us to try to balance our options? Isn't it always about equations, prosperity, great living in Iceland? What's that supposed to mean, except for some chosen ones like us who were elected here? In good faith, voters go to the voters' room and listen to us for every campaign in which we promise all beautiful things. There is no list of how we're going to straighten things out. What are these things? And fellow Americans, what's worse: How does this eternal golden memory say that each time you go out and choose the same time you feel hurt and resent your failure to keep your promises? Why is that? It's time we worked together. It's time to give the people the chance to stand by the big words. We have solutions, we have funding to have a minimum wage in the country of 350,000, tax and impairment. We have solutions so that no pensioners who have nothing to do with anything but social security have under 300,000 dollars. per month, tax and inadequacy. We don't want to tax poverty. And how are we going to finance it? We are going to use the national pension system of over 5,000 billion people, a pension system that is not taxed unless we pay. If we're going to tax our remuneration on the pension system, we'll have more than 70 billion dollars to cut. ... ayear into our common consumption in the state funds. Is it not also necessary for rural society to make this tax money new and at this time, as much as the government? Yes, exactly. What can we do with this money? What can we do to eliminate these weaknesses, the yokes, and the pressures we are always putting on the people of the land? We can do anything about it, but it seems impossible in this subjugated system to step outside the box. How's the nursing home building? Now, how do our health systems return, our fellow Americans? Even the one standing here had to call an ambulance in his home the other day. It wasn't for me, otherwise I was hardly standing here, but it doesn't change the fact that even if I lived in the tomb, the ambulance was 32 minutes on the way. 10:30 in the morning in no traffic. Then I've stood here and fought with point and eggs for trying to put on a better ambulance system in small rural areas when I suddenly realize that there's nothing better here. What in the world is going on? If the person who collapsed down there had been really, really, really close, he would've been dead for a long time. That's what it says. In fact, no matter where it is, people boast that everything is going so well and everything is booming and everything is so great. Say it to those who are in trouble in our country today, say it to those who are here harrowing and unable to give their children what they want most. Say it to them, stop talking about how great everything is, just because we're good now. I know it from my own experience what it's like to live with it as a government after the government scraped a microchip. I'm not sure that many here were in that situation. - I need to take a look at the clock, you see, there's a light on the table and I'm finally on it. But I get to come back here in the third round. My fellow Americans. The people's party has a solution, and I'll tell you about the other things we've been talking about later, and I'd like you to keep an eye on them. That's for damn sure. We're not done, and we never give up.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-11-2.u10	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. Less than two years ago, we were gathered here to discuss the first conference of the Government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, the fine work for society, nature, and climate there. Fortunately, we had good wishes and hopes, as well as doubts and opposition, as we would expect. We talked about the infrastructure, transportation, education, social support, and, of course, the health care that focused on the entire campaign. We wanted to face the crisis seriously and to be there in the lead, with ambitious plans and good - looking financing. We wanted to take up the Community covenant, and most of us have a vision that no one will be left behind. We wanted to renew the covenant, the very foundation of a powerful and good society. That's what we said then, and that's what we're doing. We are in an interesting chapter of Icelandic political history, a chapter in which a government from left to right formed the joint task of keeping our community in the future where children, social justice, and nature will enjoy themselves. When it comes to democracies and social foundations when we listen and reason, we show understanding that in each matter there are many and often contrasts between views, we can expect a more successful conclusion and a happy society. We want to work differently, to carry out our integrity, and to look for solutions that work. Once this works, we'll succeed. In Iceland too, the fear and jealousy, half - truths, lies, hatred, and contempt for women have displayed their attitude toward politics in many lands and their evil currents. Hence, there is a need for decisive action, and all of us need to keep on the watch. This involves a challenge for democratic groups that want to be based on ideals of worth and respect, of diversity and of female freedom. There we want to be, most of us, in fact, and must work. I am proud to be a member of the government led by Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, the chairman of the movement for socialism, equality, and nature protection, in a government in which powerful women play a key role, and a variety of views have positions and respect. I am also proud to have influenced large decisions here at the council on the basis of women's solidarities, such as laws on the self - determination rights of women over their own bodies. I want to thank you for the cooperation of all the senators who put the freedom of women first, not just at times or when it's convenient, but in times of trial. But my assignment is health. As for them, we senators have set a clear heading for the year 2030, which no group voted against. On this basis, we will develop health care in Iceland and use time, funds, and active workers in the interests of better health and better living. In policy we deal with leadership, design, right service, future challenges, responsible service, quality and security, participation and active users. I've already taken my people from the Ministry of Health in all the country's medical districts and presented policy and discussed it with health professionals, managers, local authorities, and other residents. Induction is on the move, and policy has been well received. When it comes to national health, and in some lands the most important challenge is to improve the access to clean water. In contrast, we enjoy health care in the best order, but we need to do better, cut system barriers, talk together, make sure that our community is under the name of a community we have together, a well - established network of services and warmth, a health care that all can trust. Parents, schoolmates, the nurserys, the health care - all of us work together to make our children feel good. Schools, child protection, leisure work, Bible counsel, grandparents - all of us want to do our part. Hence, working together as a team is the most important thing. (b) How do we know that Jehovah's Witnesses have a strong desire to serve him? However, prevention is not a business but a life itself, day after day, through conversation and association, but also by not using rage and contempt in dealing with one another. Good citizens of the country. We had the courage to change the law on pregnancy, to make health care free for disability and the elderly, to take up the pressure in terms of peace, to start the building of Land Hospitals, a big increase in health care, to promote psychological services, to deal with climate, to introduce trans and intersex legislation, to look for new ways in contracts - all of this and more, in spite of complex association. In these matters, our leadership was in control of the outcome, but also a conflict, contrary to political lines. The left movement a green supply is a force that dares to make its mark on society when opportunity arises. That's what we've been doing since an institution, whether in the board or in the government position, by putting a case on a program in our community talk, in our rural areas, in our country, in the mayor's office, and here at the General Assembly. Women's freedom of religion, social justice, peace policy, and environmental emphasis are everywhere, have a purpose, and will have a long future. This is our business in the present, and it's urgent. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-11-2.u11	Mr. President. Good Icelanders. The plans of the prime minister at the beginning of the new council are always frequent and deserve detailed discussions. The speech was well delivered, and perhaps not. Remarkably, some things that were not said were more than those mentioned. This is especially true in foreign and military matters. The growing interest of the U.S. government in Iceland and the North has been evident in the arrival of the U.S. Secretary of State and Vice President to this country of the year. Then there are considerable interest in other influential countries. In this regard, there may be Chinese governments, who have recently presented the project Belti's cooperation and violation. It has been observed that the government's position on the Chinese initiative seems to be playing in two tongues. Interestingly, prime minister did not use his keynote address to explain his government's policy on this matter. Our cooperation with the United States has a long record. The 1951 Defense Convention is unique and plays an important role. I feel that the increased interest of the U.S. government in Iceland is important. The experience of our dealings with the superpowers west of Atlantian souls is good in all places. In March 1949, the decision made by the Generals to establish the Atlantic alliance is one of the most important in the Republic's history and appointed Iceland into a group of Western democracies and ensured the defenses of the country at a critical time. Mr. President. The Icelandic nation grows old, as is true of neighboring nations. The increasing number of the elderly in the coming years is in the demographics of data and predictions. The media wants older citizens to have the means to live decent lives. The middle class emphasizes the fixation of damages due to the payment of pension funds. These failings are fallen to undermine belief in the pension system and leave old underpayers to the level of people who have never paid in a pension fund during their years. The middle class wants the elderly to be enabled to live in their extended homes and to improve their home ministry. At the same time, adequate housing should be provided when such measures are no longer possible despite domestic support. The middle class feels that it is urgent to take the initiative to raise nursing homes for the elderly who are facing the need at any given time. Older ones who have fulfilled their life's work deserve to live in good standing and security. V.E.G. In his speech, the European Union's third energy package was turned aside to the prime minister's third energy package. So the third pack of energy is evidence that there is good reason to protect the nation's sovereignty and its uncircumcised custody of its important energy resources. This was what the Central Party tried to do, ending the category's approval of neither the sale of Iceland's national sovereignty over the energy resource nor the expected rise in electricity prices in the country. It can be obvious that the entrance of the Icelanders to foreign markets for their fish products was the major factor in the nation's breaking out of poverty to the banks and later to the wealth of the land. There was a requirement for access to the fish resources of the European Economic Area Convention but we are now facing a demand for energy resources. The middle class will continue to hold the nation's interests firmly in this regard. This brings us to the democratic debate in a free society as supreme. Prime Minister takes part in his talk. Nothing is more natural than a debate between ideas and goals. The key point is that the discussion is instituted on objective grounds. Free discussion and sound communication are the basis for progress and progress. In this regard, another is the British philosopher and economist John Stuart Mill, in his early issue of freedom. The second chapter of this publication discusses freedom of thought and of freedom of speech. A Mill say that a spiritual nation has never prospered in spiritual oppression and will never do so. The foreword to the publication of the Icelandic literary Society shows that President Jón had read Freedom in a Danish translation and, though much, had come. Let us not forget that freedom of speech is the cornerstone of all other human rights, which we probably consider loyal to people. Mr. President. Being an Icelander is a privilege indeed. Young and adult generations face great challenges, but at the same time they face great opportunities. The future depends on our beautiful, productive land to be handled with the right and sensibleness of our affairs. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-11-2.u12	Mr. President. My fellow Americans. We only have one life. In the meantime, if any, we are making the best of it, making the best of our strengths, while seeking help because of weakness. In times of trial, we are a remarkable step. In these days, the annual campaign on everyone's lips is about to turn to the national campaign one life that is a great struggle for Einar Darri's family, who died just 18 years of age because of drug poisoning. He had no history of drug abuse or drug abuse, so the death of his family and friends came as a surprise. But Einar Darri's fate is not unique. Last year 39 people died from drug or drug abuse and in August. had died at the age of 23, a study was conducted. The fact is that exposure to neuro-psychotic drugs in this country is considerably higher than in our neighboring countries, and we here are talking about the medicines prescribed by doctors and not those brought illegally. For example, 10% of all children and adolescents use antipsychotics regularly. Last year, the consumption of drugs prescribed for sleeping children increased by more than 20% and is now 670 children who regularly use such drugs. At the same age, 14% of children were prescribed an agonist and increased by 14%, and there are three times as many as in Sweden as we can get from the North countries. If we take adults into account, we will use Icelanders 30% more of these drugs than Sweden does. Mr. President. Why is this so? Is this some kind of natural law in Iceland? A report by the Ministry of Health last year says that the development of community and health systems over the past few decades is expected to contribute to creating expectations and culture that view drugs as the solution to many problems and have led to a huge increase in their use. In other words, we created this situation. We made a situation where medication is better than having a conversation with a professional, hoping for a better feeling. The time of psychiatry still costs 17,000 dollars. While stimulants and sedatives are buying and selling schoolyards and on the Internet. Don't get me wrong. Drugs are necessary, but our use of them is considered to be abnormally high. A new study among high school students shows that factors such as a good spiritual feeling, that parents know where their children are on Saturday evenings, family association, leisure activities, etc. I'm on the other side. It is also a human condition that directly affects the well - being of young people, and we can react, for example. with what we in the United States have long spoken and joined the labor movement, which is abbreviated week of work. Governments have responded to the requirement that employees give up food and coffee courses in exchange for abbreviated week of work, which is unacceptable at the same time as experience with abbreviated workweek shows that production and working satisfaction and general well-being. Happy adults will be so much better parents and outlanders. Parents who have more time with their children give more attention. Mr. President. During the spring convention of 2018, we discussed drug treatments for young people who were then undefeated at Vogi because of children's interaction with older addicts. This was mentioned in a talk and was published in the highest form. Healthcare Minister, including of February, that the Landspians would accept the drug treatments of this group within six months. This morning, in my conversation with a representative of the National Hospital, it was found that it was never part of the plan, at least was never reported to be a hospital. They were hosting one to three children out of Sturdys, who had immediate medical problems due to dissociation. It was shown in a case of the highest order. Minister, all you need to do is change your housing and control, and that's when it's run. However, no such thing has occurred or appears to have occurred. Mental status was closed during the summer's savings and manpower, but there was no room for the foretold treatment department for young people, while the first concern was 581 individuals less than 30 years of age during the first treatment of Vogi, of which 70 were under 20 years of age. Darri Einar had one life, just like the rest of us, but we can't as a community make it work like this anymore. A promise of change has to be made. There I challenge the government to do much better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-11-2.u13	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. During a debate with the prime minister, it is possible for members of the Parliament to discuss the national situation. It is equally beneficial for us here to have regular occasions for upbuilding discussions that are designed to be objective and moderate, based on fact and reason, not the launchers or the big things. Political gladiatories are a self - aware part of the political struggle, and they have often been hard to deal with, but in recent years, their appearance has changed to the worse. Superficial statements are dropped, the brambles and parentheses are often used to bring a blow to political opponents. What a talk here at the council Hall is not in much contact with the everyday lives of the common people! It follows that it is increasingly difficult for the public to identify the obvious links between words and actions of elected representatives on the one hand and the interests of the citizens of the country. We should strive to cultivate greater respect for differences in viewpoints and to reflect on the opposite viewpoints rather than impressing on those who disagree about different motives. As a result, the nation's trust in this important and remarkable organization of our Icelanders is more likely to grow. Good citizens of the country. One of you may have heard that the Independence Party party had a meeting in spring, where we visited some 50 towns. They found a welcome opportunity to hear firsthand what is happening to people. These were upbuilding and well - thought - out meetings that brought back the optimism and forwardness that exist among the people of the country, people who want to take advantage of opportunities far and wide throughout Iceland. These meetings included: Consider what the Kingdom power should do and what not for the good of the people. As to the role of the government, it was likely to learn that they should focus mainly on one main project, not to place a stone in the streets of people and businesses in the country. And I share opinions with those who have this vision of life and the tools it offers because the future exists in people. It's got the power, it's always been, and that's how it's always gonna be. One of the greatest government tasks is to promote simple, efficient regulations. In the cooperation of the Government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, there is a list of campaigns for simple regulations in the interests of employment and the common people. We've got the highest place at the Department of Professional Railroads. Tourism, industrial and innovation, put such jobs first and put them in charge of the government's scheduled actions on a simple rule. It contains a number of tasks, but the 1st stage of the program that will be conducted within a few weeks. We're going to revise the permit measures, simplify management and reevaluate the roles and needs of committees under the Ministry. We will take into account the complete reexamination rules that hear under the Ministry with the objective of simplifying and minimising the necessary burden of rule. We will ask basic questions about the role of the government. We will emphasize the implementation of projects and reject old ideas about government agencies and businesses by having a home in concrete, Reykjavík. At the same time, however, we make sure that Icelandic taxpayers, companies and general employees, teachers, officemen, sailors, farmers, and other employees are well spent. I am convinced that the results of this work will be more powerful and simpler for the benefit of public and professional management. Everyone will benefit, the public and the company, the state funds and the communities. At the same time, we will take care of our country's competitiveness, ensuring that Icelandic companies and employees will not become involved in hard international competition. In this way, we will guarantee the interests of the entire nation for a long time. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-11-2.u14	Dearest nation. Dear council. We who live in Iceland want to create a just society where everyone sits at the same table. Unlike our background, we have the responsibility for the inheritances of our generations, our country, our history, nature, our language, and our culture. Iceland is a free and sovereign state with freedom, equality, democracy, and human rights to cornerstones. Governments shall work on the welfare of the country, promote their culture, and respect the diversity of life, land, and life. We want to promote peace, security, peace, and happiness among us and future generations. We resolve to work with other nations for peace and respect for the earth and for all mankind. In this light, we put ourselves in a new constitution, the highest law in the country to be respected by all. So silent is it that the bill of the Council of Government to the government laws adopted by the nation to lay the basis for a new constitution for Iceland. The bill was born because of the confidence that arose between Congress and nation after the collapse of the bank. Then many woke up to an evil dream and saw that politicians had not handled the commission they had been given to serve in behalf of the nation. Trust in society's institutions collapsed, and some of them have not yet been satisfied. One of these institutions is the Allied legislatator of Iceland, who had, and has yet, the task of implementing a new constitution, a new Community contract, the highest law of the country to be respected by all. Ladies and gentlemen. The groups making up Iceland's government today have had a lot of time to ensure that the nation's will for the induction of a new constitution has been taken, but they have all had the opportunity to do so. The forwarding party and the Independence Party chose to insert the constitution into a drawer when they accepted the board of directors in 2013. The left movement, in 2017, made up a government of these groups that have shown by their actions that they oppose the nation's demand for a new covenant of community. And unfortunately, in the year 2019 much of this council, it is acceptable to keep the new constitution in a drawer and make more of a deal between the individual regulations of the bill. At best, this approach illustrates the nature of the constitution as a community covenant and as our chairman, the Lawgiver, the rules of democracy. At worst, it describes a seven - year profound opposition from rulers to democracy and a great disrespect for its authority. Dearest nation. Just like the President of Iceland, Guðni Th. Jóhannesson, I believe that a powerful society is characterized by optimism rather than bitterness and bitterness, and courage beyond the confusion and fear of the unknown. There is no bitterness or bitterness in my criticism of rulers'in bringing in a new constitution. Rather, it is designed to motivate them to show courage and courage to change the dominant system of power for the better, in behalf of land and nation. True, it takes courage to limit one's own authority. It takes courage to uphold the nation's will when it conflicts with its own interests, and it takes optimism to cope with the changes in a new constitution, optimism, and firm belief that the people know best how the land should be ruled and how to deal with new times in a changing world. You see, Piratar and I know that the Allied Council will not regain its trust until the Allied Congress respects the nation's will. We can see that it is hoped to think that respect for the council can be promoted by accepting criticism - filled and sweeping unpleasant facts under the carpet. The conclusion of the Council of Parliamentary Presidency that members of Congress speak openly about corruption in their ranks at the same time and approve that members of the council will make use of public funds to attend birthdays and funerals is an out - of - date attitude and will be replaced by history. I am very optimistic about the fulfillment of that prophecy. Dearest people in the country. During our last legislation, Piratar and I proposed the administrative bill in the form the council left behind before being put in a drawer before elections 2013. We offered all the classes at the General Assembly to carry it with us but did not have a message to do it, but I am optimistically confident that more groups will place their name on the bill at this assembly. While some groups may find it difficult to match national votes, it is the best democracy that all people in the country have the same value in democratic elections. And while some categories find it difficult to give the public the right to call for national law approved by the council, it is a democratic and right to promote public access to decision making on their society. And while some categories find it difficult to secure their national ownership of resources in a constitution, they do not have the resources and eventually have to accept it. And while some categories may feel that they are small between them in the constitution, they eventually have to accept that this is not the case. The nation is the only real and democratic constitutionr, and the nation has already given us a new constitution. It's time to accept - no, it's time to celebrate, thank you for that good gift, and use it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-11-2.u15	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. We all want Iceland to be in the highest order and to be competitive to education and employment, so that our young people have access to the best schools in the world and that our career lives live in a way that allows us to be successful on a global scale. Good citizens of the country. At the beginning of the season, the government announced a great education campaign. It was evident that this was a challenge for us, but the largest of the community's most important jobs, the foundation of all other jobs, the very teaching work itself. The government covenant is very clear in these matters. It is noted that it is important to promote recognition at the teachers'jobs. At the same time, we will find that we need to deal with the urgency of teaching. Governments, along with key education and employment, have been working to meet this challenge, and in the past year, we presented and carried out suggestions. The result has not been true, and what joy that brings! It's a pleasure to increase the number of applications for basic studies at the University of Iceland by 45%. Also pleasant is the fact that even more men applied for basic school courses in Iceland than last year and three times as many as one in high school. This is a great development, good Americans. The project of the coming council will reverse, including to promote a country's working course, radical system changes at the Icelandic Board of Students, measures at the press market, to implement a Senate resolution to promote Icelandic in all areas of society, and to shape a new education policy. The aim of a new education policy is simple, it is that the Icelandic education system will be excellent. The budget is 36 billion high school spending, and a special focus is needed to improve the education of the country. So we are setting priorities for the worthwhile work of time and money. We've seen increases in technical and occupational studies, and in particular, it was a pleasure to see an increase in Iceland's Technical School by 32%. Forethought is a radical change in the Icelandic loan fund, which includes 30% borrowing along with a special support for children. These are the greatest changes made in the loan fund for 30 years. Time conventions are taking place, my good fellow Americans. I would like to say that there are a lot of people in this work, and I would like to thank students in particular very good and upbuilding cooperation. The Treaty of the Government states that there is a better way to support the environment of the individual media. I've been working on an ambitious bill in that case, along with working with a financial and economic minister to coordinate taxation of international advertising and international media like Google and Facebook. Clearly, the environment is difficult, and we all want the media in Iceland, both state radio and private media. Good citizens of the country. During the spring council, 22 teams agreed to promote Icelandic status in all areas of society. Some of the action programme has been implemented, and it will be particularly enjoyable to introduce it on the day of the November 16, 2002, issue of this magazine. The language is essential to thought and thinking without any thought. Without a good knowledge of the language, we do not put our ideas into words, stop getting new ideas, and reduce our ability to influence them. As a result, reading is one of the most important changes in creative thinking. That is why we should do all we can to ensure the locks of all children as a basic vocabulary for equal opportunities. We are constantly working on Icelandic development, and we are attacking the Icelandic language and working to get the manuscripts home, one of the greatest cultural value in the nation. Good citizens of the country. We are all responsible for increasing the competitiveness of the nation and that will depend on the abilities and skills of the people in the coming decades. That's why we're investing in people and their skills. Finally, my fellow Americans, I would like to quote John Stuart Mill philosopher and urge all of us to take care of this wisdom, which says: ▪ All the growth of education contributes to the smoothing of education, for education sells everyone under the same influence and gives them access to the same wealth of knowledge and opinions. I appreciate your audition. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-11-2.u16	Mr. President. Good citizens of the country. After a full - time service year, the General Assembly regroups, which in many ways was historic and difficult for the appearance and respect of the Generals. There is no need to draw a feather that here I am talking about the Customs and other matters that came to the attention of the General Assembly Committee - but no less discussion, or should I say, forever, the third energy package. In these cases, members of the Parliament were able to display a side that brings reproach on the important work being done here and at the same time undermine the needed confidence in the Council. The people of the land faced a sad scene that no one should accept, either me or you. Let us not join in the Súkkat song of Zukkat. It hurts. It hurts, but it gets used to. bad, but you get used to it. Mr. President. I listened to three talks yesterday for the Senate hearing, and with the permission of a president, I'm going to witness to them. Björg Magnúsdóttir said in his speech on the subject of civilizeds: ▪ Should we, as a country, ask ourselves how we want to affect the world, what we can give to the world - instead of thinking about what the world can give us? In a sermon in the cathedral, a Kristinn son of Ágúst, Friðfinnsson a meeting with Steinn Steinarr, who said that he at times felt that he was on a shopping trip but had forgotten what to buy. A Kristinn urged us to recall again what it was that we were to buy on our shopping journey that we are starting in the fall. The president of Iceland said in this hall: THERE really is another word for the future. Indeed, caution is a fine price. We can guard against the careless, careless examples, but we can also guard against the anxious, fearful, and angry ones. At times, we may have nothing to fear but fear. Good citizens of the country. It is good to receive such reminders and to heed them as we engage in the work at a new assembly. Let's think about what business we have in politics. Let us deal with goals and ways, but be careful to behave in a proper manner. Let us think of a national situation, but let us not pursue our own vanity. Therefore, I do well to remind myself that in its core, the restoration of a liberal international task force based on its policy and work on equality and the ideologies of liberalism is a just society, where public interests are more exclusive and all individuals, homes and businesses, enjoy equalitarians. Mr. President. Good citizens of the country. In our restoration, we are determined to prevent another piece of text from being Súkkat by Supillat. Yeah, it hurts. it hurts and gets worse. bad and it gets worse, exacerbation and deterioration, It gets worse and worse.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-11-2.u17	A respectable president. V.E.G. The people of the land. Once again, executives are convincing employees, disability, and older citizens of this country that black is white and white is black. The budget is offered by an independent party, a forwarding party, and the left greens, indicating that they are not the worst in the country but for those who are the best at it. Remarkable tax returns are not the worst part of the budget. The benefits of the new step are largely taken back with a reduction in personality discounts, so the decline is not for pensioners or underpayers but for high - paying employees. This government is going to pass the worst in our community at 10,000 bucks. with left hand in hand left direction, but taking back 20,000 bucks. with the right hand in the right course, and also moving the difference to the highest income. Those who earn a million dollars or more benefit from what will be taken away from the most money they earn. It will flow into their wide and deep pockets the highest income of the government of the Independence Party, the forwarding party, and the left green. If given correctly, a personal discount should increase to the lowest wage and pension would already be tax free. If so, the government would be getting closer to stopping paying taxes very little. They should immediately be put on capital taxes and decommissioned personal discounts from high-payers because they have no need for personal discounts. If these governments and former governments had met the rise in personal discounts and pensions from the State's Insurance Institute, from the time the standard pay of the taxes of 1988, would be over 300,000 dollars, tax and inadequacy, today, not more than 200,000 dollars. which is the hunger that many older people and sick people are invited to live on today. A respectable president. V.E.G. The people of the land. This spring, biographies were reached in a general labour market, and governments made that agreement. Of course, those who have done so are left behind. Once again, there are senior citizens and desecraters in the Pension of Pension from the State's Insurance Office. All too many children live in poverty in Iceland today, and it is a disgrace to all of us in this room. I am sorry that we, who live in this rich and rich country, let us allow thousands of children to live in poverty and, unfortunately, also in a very poor condition. Why do we discriminate against those who are sick? Why do we have strength for those who are sick, not letting them know about it? Do we have a strengthening system for sick people to be seen by them? And if not: Why do those in need know that they are not to be spared? Why? Why are we running a system for sick people in our health system so that they no longer work? An increase in scarring is a gnat. Sadly, their numbers are now to be greatly increased by attacking what has reduced the growth of disability, i.e. physical therapy. The system that works is still being shaken up. Children's improvement and an increase in their limit of impairment are not effective. Children have raised on a wide range of charges, e.g. Real estate fees, car expenses, parishes, radio fees, garbage disposal costs, and more fees and taxes. There are costs that not only consume the small benefits presented in the budget but also make the worst of them must harden the belts. A respectable president. V.E.G. The people of the land. What's wrong with a government by a government that, at the expense of the worst in the country? People who don't have knives and spoons also have rentable rents at the highest cost of rent with the sense of insecurity. A group of people are fighting poverty. To create poverty for the worst in the country, that our society can suffer the worst and the rich get more and more money - we can't accept that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-11-2.u18	President. Good citizens of the country. Perhaps it would be to add into the group of speakers who make the climate a subject for conversation tonight if it was not as important as it really is. Arrogant streams are also symbolic of the world's warming that man finally seems to see fit to endure. And like streams, trayed and congealed with others, we all need to work together to form the energy needed to combat natural disasters. In order for that to happen, all of us need to come together. It doesn't matter where we are. The only thing that matters is accepting the problem and being ready to handle it. The denial is made of this as another destructive force that poisons itself, and those who deny human climate change should not be passive. We need to rethink all of our politicians. They're all supposed to be thinking about climate. How do we build a noncarbon society? That's the job. The food production needs to be determined by, our import, our consumption, the way we move between places, tourism, the public industry, small and medium-sized enterprises, the energy system. We can no longer allow ourselves to think primarily about how many bucks and pennies we get for the energy our resources give us. How it uses in fighting global warming is the main issue. What is the carbon line from the production of energy to produce products? The answer is what matters. The head of an old - fashioned military structure that works against climate goals and uses the banking system in the fight. Let us raise the climate investment banks, which lend to projects that help to prevent emissions, although money may be less than the basic demands of capitalism require. A disaster is supposed to make us all socialists if we're serious about fighting it. Mothers and fathers of this country, don't criticize what you don't understand, sang Bob Dylan 55 years ago, you don't have your children to say that your old methods are out of date, and you, politicians, listen to the call, don't get in the way, and you people who write and criticize, finish your eyes because this is your only opportunity. The line has been drawn, the old part is vanishing, the time of the change has come. The time for change has arrived. Why am I quoting this old thing? Yes, the time for the change has arrived. Obey the call of time, all as one, join together against the climate. There is simply no other way. Let global warming be a word that future historians know as well as a new word that no one in their time understands that our struggles were successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-11-2.u19	Mr. President. My fellow Americans. Don't put your trust in princes, says the psalmist David. These words fit now, when a three - pack of energy has been approved in opposition to the nation. Government officials ignored the desire of a greater part of their platoon. They will reap just as they have sown, and already will be seen by that sign. In the book Wings Hearts in the Roofs, by Guðmundsson Monuðmundsson, we discovered pictures of the system or the state display that takes away our joy. This is what we see in the breakdown of pension because of professional employment. The joy of working with older people and poor people is taken away. Respect for the older people, the generation that brought us into the present, and we have so much to thank, and we keep going astray. Even in the Independence category, older ones have become second - raters who are spoken down to do so. Since then, the media has fought for better seniors and will continue to do so. Two important health groups are celebrating the 100th anniversary of this year, midwives, and nurses. It took four years for midwives to get paid for work in a strike. The treaties of these classes are now available, and hopefully the State's attitude will be better for them. The persistent list of nurses is a serious problem that must be solved. This will not be the case with the arrogant agreement commission of the State. Good health services are based on manpower, not concrete in the wrong place. From the beginning, the government has been uninterested in agriculture. Governments are to protect the interest of agriculture, just as they care for the interests of seafood. All nations support their agriculture. V.E.G. Aggressor didn't even mention a word about farmers in his speech or their terms, nor did he mention a three - year - old New Zealand lamb's ridge. The financial bill presents a new tax level on the lowest income. The Central Party celebrates all tax reductions, but it is clear that taxation in the lowest salary is done at the expense of the intermediate class. The government continues to raise the carbon bill, which means an increase in gasoline and diesel oil. The Ministry of Environment has confirmed that it is not known if the carbon account is going to bring any results. Mr. President. The good people of the country. The U.S. President drew attention when he said he wanted to buy Greenland. In Denmark, people were shocked, as were they, and here at home. What, though, about the fact that one foreign rich man has purchased more than 40 earths in this country? What if this rich guy was Donald Trump? Would the government accept it? The failure of the government to deal with major foreign land trades is unprecedented. I'd like to take this opportunity to thank our Energy for the media battle against a pack of three. It's not over yet. The Central Party will never be satisfied because Brussels officials are in charge of Iceland's energy. Never.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-11-2.u20	Mr. President. Good citizens of the country. The words and actions of the government often remind me of a joke I saw many years ago and showed a man who was deeply impressed by his wife about equality and how he feels that women should be paid the same as men and then hatched by saying, "There's just one thing I don't understand: Why don't you clean up and cook when I get home at night? Words, then, are only worth something to do. Some directors may at times speak beautifully of a society that is equally desirable. But what are they doing to counteract roughness? What do they really do? Not much of a thing, we think of the United States. Here is what they see: They do everything they can to protect the richest people of the country while maintaining health and other welfare requirements. Governments fail those who have to rely on insurance agencies, including the poorest Icelanders. There is no more demand for them to contribute to the decline. Iceland is a new report from Oxfam, an international organization that works against poverty, the longest of all the Northern countries when it comes to action to cope with roughness. One of the first works of this government was to reduce the fishing fees with the related loss of income for the state's funds and income for the big estate. Our resources are soared, and those who exploit them are in good business, but the welfare system is in want, and the transportation system is unsurpassed. Increasing equations are both justice and economics. People in general feel better and are more at peace with society in general. This hardly believes any human in the bread - crumbling theory anymore, yet the government operates in its spirit. The government groups promised an improved pensioner for elections, but pension pay is now just under $250,000. during a month, everyone must agree that the sheets are needed to improve. Only those who live alone can reach 300,000 dollars. The target with chores. In the past, some 70% of the pensioners who live under the ideals are women who had part - time jobs or homework. Among these are women of foreign background. That group of women has earned little or no rights to payment from pension funds, and they have very limited resources and resources for forwarding. It seems that the government has not heard of their problems, since we are not failing to do so. However, they suggest that pension pay only increase by 3.5% during the New Year's season while the lowest salary increases more, i.e. about 5.7%, three months later. The gap between the poor and the rich is seen as a result of the inaction of the government, who say one thing in speeches but who decides otherwise with the budget. Good citizens of the country. The human family must cross borders in order to master the global catastrophe. As a result of the warming process, access to natural resources is opened by melting ice, opening up an opportunity for those who are concerned about their own interests in a shorter time period. In these cases the Icelandic government needs to be careful and not bind to those who are blind and greedy. The U.S. government has shown interest in renewing its power in this country, but we are expected to resist the threat of weapons and peace and cooperation of nations. May we show by our actions that we want peaceful solutions when national security is threatened by disasters. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-11-2.u21	V.E.G. President. My fellow Americans. The nine-point period is now about halfheartedly, there is good reason to look forward to the latter part of it. The formation of this government has brought about a degree of stability in Icelandic politics, and it has been successful. Political stability was the basis for contracts made earlier this year, and they give us reason for optimism in the years to come, especially in our efforts to improve the standard of living for those who fail. We're here to make the country's lives better and simpler. On the field of the council and elsewhere, we deal with conflicting ideas. It is not only good to deal with opposing views but also a competitive prerequisite for democrating society, a community of free persons, living, and prospering. Of course, there are also aspects of the government's issues. Another would be unnatural in view of the contrast between the three groups. Though it is sometimes difficult not to accomplish everything, the government's members have been intertwined and have political development to handle different assignments of responsibility, firmness, and ability to communicate without sacrificing basic ideals. I know that it has been difficult for the government to understand how the contrasts of the poles work together and succeed. In fact, wise compromises will lead, not to quietness, but to new opportunities for the future. We will continue to handle matters from the right to the left, but when our assignments are clear and our goals meet. This applies, e.g. we're on the environment. The reasoning reveals that it does not deal with the poisoning of large industry and the dingy flotation of kanatres. All of us are natureists, and most of us realize that nature protection is a reasonable economic policy as we use resources in a sustainable manner. The same is true of foreigners and immigrants. There can never be any choice that we either close a border or simply wipe it out. Most people realize that neither is possible. We are to welcome those who want to arrive, as certain formalities are followed by clear, transparent, and efficient rules. I take this not only as an example because these issues are now on my side but because there will be no results or sound conclusions if the discussion is overreached. My fellow Americans. I hope we can get into a new session with this attitude. We are aware that we will not agree on all things unless we are less likely, and we are under obligation to continue to deal with different ideas, ways, and to some extent also on goals, but let us make a distinction between political policy and fear - clarity and why we are here. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-11-2.u22	Dearest nation. Have you heard of the cake? You know, the cookie that always needs to grow, no matter what, the same cookie and it's decorated just before the election. I've got some bad news for this cake. It is molded, and new decorations make no difference. We need something new, for most of us get little of this cake anyway. We need a buffet, something for everyone, big and small, something new, because an economy that is all about growing and dividing a national production cake isn't working. The exchange is and has always been unfair. The cake is a lie. Special interests dominate and give away all atoning grounds while the rich take up the decoration and become richer with the help of tax ornaments. The result is corruption, conflict of interests, and irresponsibility. We live in a irresponsible society where ministers can present reports for elections, appoint judges in order to care for their friends and goods, and without anyone taking responsibility to account for their actions. Dearest nation. The future will come whether we like it or not. It will be more experienced if we do not always have to deal with the ghosts of the past, who keep drawing us down to the extent of corruption, special interests, and standards to save our own hinds from shouldering responsibility. Pirates and I demand that people back up their issue and make the truth important. We open the Parliaments' salary and cost pay for keeping the media and the public. We fight for the new constitution and the wonderful rights it gives us. Pirat and I make demands on professional practice, open access to the information and access of everyone involved. Pirats have long spoken about new economic solutions, the importance of looking beyond increasing the cake. Recently, this new thought came to mind as a means of prosperity. The successful economy is about doing better in a number of areas of society through data-based policies. That's not gonna happen any more than I'm supposed to. Pirats look to a future in which right and left are not relevant; neither are capitalism or socialism. The future is in prosperity and freedom, not freedom of selfish interests and monopolis, but the freedom we find in defense of the misuse of power, the freedom that we find by throwing away the cake that some have but others do not, the freedom that we feel in confidence and security because our rights are in place, e.g., our rights. the right to jump on the brakes if governments are running off, freedom from corruption, and a vote pool, freedom for you, not the best of friends. Pirates and I offer a vision of political responsibilities and a better life, freedom and rights for all. We emphasize that a new and better constitution from the nation will pass through the council. We offer a shorter workweek and a prosperous society. Dearest nation. It is easy to pursue politics as usual. It is easy to look the other way or through your fingers. While it is easy to harbor fear and distrust, it takes courage to make changes and to stand up to rulers. It takes perseverance to draw answers when no one is willing to answer. You need the courage to say, "Simple suspicion. " It takes courage to resist the influence, challenge the power, and say, "Aggressive violence." Pirats and I have the courage to fight the unique forces, and we also offer a vision of prosperity for all of us. That's the best thing that's ever gonna happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-11-2.u23	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. I'd like to discuss the basic and most important unity of society, the family. Family activities have changed greatly, especially in recent years. The community has become more complex, and the family life has tried to adapt to these changes. Change in Family Characters Projects including of the long day of working for both parents outside the home. Thus, schools have had to take on increased roles in training their children. In spite of this, child care and training are still the most important responsibility for each family. My fellow Americans. In many ways today's family situation is very good, but sad to say, we hear reports, and we see statistics that the family situation is becoming more difficult because of the fast changes in society. Government assignments at any given time have to be done more fully to improve the needs and interests of families in the country. Sadly, coldness, long - working hours, designers, anxiety of children, and young people, increase in energy, economic problems, and the lack of adequate housing are examples of challenges that Icelandic society and governments face. Shepherding a family is an investment to the future, and a strong, healthy family unit makes a strong Icelandic society. The present government is working on many measures and system changes to strengthen the position of families in Iceland. We're working on rebuilding the birthworm system, including the rest of the process. extending the right of parents to birth vacations for 12 months and raising payments in maternity vacations. This action alone will translate into an increase of 10 billion to the families of the country on the basis of a year at the end of this terms. We are also working toward a radical change in the affairs of children, which aims to catch younger ones in the past. This is where we work in good cooperation across the Ministry and on the contrary to political parties. One basic aspect of each community is housing. It should be a spontaneous requirement, such as the requirement for access to education and health, that each of us can cover his head with a roof. There's the government working on a variety of measures, including will be next year 3.7 billion in order to increase the overall number of rented apartments, including in cooperation with the labour market partners. A respectable president. We're taking a huge step when it comes to decommissioning insurance in Icelandic society. There is truly a system modification that is in preparation, and the bill will appear at this council. We are also working on system changes aimed at supporting young people, low income, and people who lost their assets in the collapse, while being able to buy an apartment again. A respectable president. We're working on housing arrangements for the country. Recently, I signed a directive setting up a new loan party for the country's settlement, to cold markets, which has been called for a very long system conversion. Good citizens of the country. We can fight and engage in spoken code into the infinite in this room, e.g. About the third energy package, but let's talk about what really matters. When has there been a debate about the family situation in Icelandic society? I am willing to participate in such language with those who have been in it. But, more dignified presidents, those who practice such language barriers come here and criticize the fact that we are raising money for birthday orcs to families in the country, calling it abnormal growth or growth. A respectable president. If that's the case, I'm very proud that the booth is growing. In winter, I will work hard to replace the above - mentioned projects because it is important for our community that we do well with the families of this country. It's a basic unit of society. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-11-2.u24	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. All of us are subject to constant change. Some changes we direct, others we do not. Some changes we fear; others we sincerely rejoice. As politicians, we often talk about changes. They are not always beneficial, but the peace of mind never moves progress, and the political debates are about the change and the struggle for them or against them, the struggle for essential changes in Icelandic society, the conflict of restraint and liberalness, the conflict between the past and the future. Similarly, the political environment in this country has not been part of this change. For most of the last century, four political parties divided into a vote that was 90 and 100 percent paid. These four groups shared the authority and, in many cases, the quality of this land. The remainder of this century has fallen from 95% to 56%, according to the last polls. This reflects the clear and loud appeal of the voters for change. Looking to younger voters, that call is even clearer. It's a call that the current government is going to blow. This government has described its cooperation as a historical reconciliation of different categories. Rather, it would be called a historic fear of change. It's not political stability here. It's political collapse. The cooperation is formed to protect the past, not the road to the future. The government covers high interest levels but low resource costs, one of the highest food prices and one of the most unstable currency in the world. You could continue to count that. In short, this government is covering narrow personal interests rather than thinking about the public and the interests of all the people of the country. Like the rest of the world, we Icelanders face an ever - increasing world change. Global warming, the fourth industrial revolution, and the threat of democracies as a result of the rise of ethnic polygamy and isolationism can have an enormous impact on our lives and well - being. We need to show insight and ambition in these matters if we are to ensure future generations the standard of living that we now enjoy. My fellow Americans. We are faced with a choice. The choice is between Iceland's tools and ancient Iceland. As we guard the road for a long time, we should listen to the young voters'plea for change, call for greater freedom and tolerance, righteous society, emphasis on environmental protection, varied opportunities for education, and work, notably on living conditions that compare with our neighbors. We will not solve future challenges with regard to past politics. To resolve the marvelous opportunities facing a community in Iceland, we need for insight and courage to make changes. A free spirit, a wide variety, and just society in which all will enjoy themselves and the public interest will rule is our vision of the future in restoration. On this basis, we will give this government a stationary hold. You see, the station never makes any progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-11-2.u25	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. This is the second time I have the privilege of coming up here because we're so lucky to be just two of the council members, me and Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson. It doesn't change the fact that I didn't quite tell you everything I wanted to tell you before, even though I tried to speak very quickly. The fact is, a group of people has now set out five priorities. I wanted to speak specifically to the group of people with whom I am a Guðmundur Ingi belongs both, incubating. We've fought for it for a long time, and ever since we came into this high Council to give micro-punchers the opportunity to get themselves out of the poverty trap, to try to prevent an increase in microorganism, as they always have been talking about. The growth is primarily marked by young people who may be physically healthy but who may be spiritually ill, who have been stoned, and who are trying to recover. They don't really get an outsider. When it comes to lowering the decrease of a penny to a buck in a $65 across from a dollar, that is just not enough. Also, what we have been calling for does not cost us much money, so I do not understand why we must not do what other nations have done and be successful, such as Swía. It is an option for microadolescents to assess their own skills, not for some group in their office, but for them, to allow them to go to work without cutting them. Of course, they pay their taxes while they give them a lead period of two years. Are they qualified to work, or cannot? So far, we've punished those who have tried in the workplace. If they go out to work and they don't make it, and they've come back, broken, maybe after a month or two, they're out of the system. However, the Saviar route back then showed that more than 32% of all who looked for employment did not return to the system. Isn't that what we're trying to do? Aren't we trying to draw our men out? Don't we get manned, too? I'll say yes. The people's party say yes. Finally, I'd like to say this: We've already fought with a point and an egg for trying to get down the list of waitings into The Vog. They've never been longer. The government granted 150 million. K. in December of the last legislation Council to the U.S.A. Not one dollar has paid off to The Vig. Thirty-five million have been paid off from Iceland's Medical Insurance, not a dollar into the hospital Vog. The list is a long one since August. In effect, people who had been packed had to be referred to because they were not in bed. I'm just saying here, my fellow Americans and you, great senators, we can do better. I can't wait to see it this winter. - Good times.
