ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u1	There have been reports from the minister of foreign affairs requesting deadlines to provide written answers to inquiries. 124, the Ministry's comments on legal opinions, from Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Issu, and on roof. 113, on the commitment of the Icelandic government to properly introduced EU types, it has a priority in Icelandic dishes, also from Ólafur Ísleifsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u2	Mr. President. There is something to be done when even the U.S. Marshal General has at an open meeting in a management and surveillance committee a word of the inconsistencies due to the execution of requests made by members of the Parliament. In fact, after a likely nine - month pregnancy, the person mentioned here was given an answer from the Ministry of finance yesterday to the total cost of country activation due to the preparation of an economistic cable. In short, the Ministry of Economics says that the company is an exception to information legislation, which may well be, and I haven't checked yet, but if so, it needs to be corrected. On the other hand, it is said that the petition for sea cables was a matter of coverts and trade secrets for Land activation, and I was wondering who that secret is. Is this for the people of the land or for imaginary rivals? Mr. President. In short, it's annoying. National operations are being joined by those companies, the National Bank, the Ohf., etc., with the senator's surveillance duties completely crammed in. This will not be tolerated, Mr. President, and now we must have a president join us to see that the duty of the council is recognized and honored, not maligned, at this time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u3	Mr. President. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson mentioned and encouraged the body of Congress and the president to take seriously the comments that have been made by the emissary of the Councilman's commission on the significant burden that may often arise in response to the inquiry of the general council. It's like a whisk. A senator said that he was incorrigibly disrespectful of the body of Congress. I last came up and pointed out that it took the secretary of finance a year and a half to answer my inquiry about Arion banks. Now I have another request for the implementation of the Bank of Lands, new headquarters of the Land Bank, a inquiry I proposed in March of this year. That's where I even came from. into the market value of the site, to see if the building would be reasonable, and to what evidence it was recommended to build on this site. No answer has yet been received, but at the same time during the summer shelter, the same building began. This is, I must say, Mr. President, total disrespect for the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u4	President's heard what to do. Councilmen say and share their concerns because it is too much for them to delay answering queries. There is also the need to strengthen the rank of the Generals in making clear that the Agency's surveillance role includes its own bodies, not merely the part of the European Commission's direct administrative responsibility of the Minister. This has to do with a case of oddity. paritaprevir It's Sæmundsson's stone. The President has received this, and the case will be checked.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u5	Mr. President. At a meeting of the PES this morning, Sir Kolbeinn H. Stefánsson presented a report on evolution in a number of microenergy donors. He even showed them that way. a picture of evolution in the number of scheduled years of life in good health between 2004 and 22015, analysed by gender. Now, men have all the same enjoyed more happy years, but the difference grew considerably in the years following a collapse. The conclusion is that there is a growing number of fine years in the lives of women. During last afternoon's discussion of the economic prosperity that is being pursued, I made holes in the data collection into publicity. There are holes where women's data should be. This world, which men and women build to the same degree, is designed with men as the only measuring rod. How understandable the fact that musculoskeletal problems are the main cause of women's disability will be in that light! I traced in my speech yesterday some examples from an interesting source, Invisible Women: Exposing Data Bias in a World Design for Men. I will not repeat these examples here or take more people out of the book, although there are truly plenty to take. But with a discussion that was created on my Facebook page there were other examples, including This, with President's permission: When I took my gun license, I couldn't shoot out the gun I was supposed to shoot because it was too big for me. When I picked it up, my left always landed on top of my shoulder rather than lay down in front of her. However, the remarkable fact that I had just taken the written exam was clear that no one should fire a weapon that he does not cause. Has anyone changed this despite a growing number of women in a shoot-out test? No.How can I Another example: When I took my privileges of command, part of it was throwing us into the sea. No woman's fault, just a flaw for the הians. If I hadn't had a tap that would've pulled me up like a dead starfish then I would've drowned, because the gall became full of water right away. We simply have to start filling up the holes in the data banks we use. We must fill in the gaps if we are to reach the goals of the economy. It's just a joke. If we don't do this, we're all arguing that we're headed for prosperity and an increase in quality of life for everyone just kidding.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u6	A respectable president. During the years since collapse, we have made a huge effort to see if many of the mistakes made were repeated. All the conditions of creditors to individuals have been expanded, and many people, including to prevent borrowing foreign currency. Today, however, the fences we have built seem to prevent people, Icelanders living here in foreign lands, or accepting wages in foreign coins, from covering their heads with quite good receptions. To me, a desperate man who walked between pensions and loans for weeks sought a simple mortgage in this country. He works abroad, but he has a legal home here, and he lives here for the longest part of the year. There was no way to get a mortgage in Icelandic dollars, for he certainly had income in foreign coins, and laws have become so complex that no loan agency is trusting to care for the laws required on loans other than income. He had thought that this would not be much of a problem, that would be easy, and that we are always talking about an international economy, and he simply borrowed from the coin he earns, but the answer was short and sweet: No, this is no longer a loan from foreign currency to individuals. It simply has been built into a group of people, and I believe it is a group and growing in a global economy, which does not seem to earn in any way to get mortgages to cover the heads of the country. This cannot be the aim of laws for individuals. There's got to be a way out of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u7	A respectable president. A developer was adopted at the 148th Parliament, which included a group of members of the Governing Body. that Iceland will be in the lead of modern infrastructure, progressive services, and new technologies that connect with Iceland and Iceland with the environment in balance with the environment. The basis of the programme includes discussed telecommunications and health care to try to match national availability to public and special health care. This may be especially true of the availability of expert expertise and mutual professional advice by healthcare professionals. The need for doctors and nurses in the country for help and advice from specialists in Lands Hospital is great and can make a difference in how patients treat them. Improved communication is a gain, a reduction in complexity, and may save time and a shorter recovery process. Most of such communication is done by phone calls and email e - mails in the current situation. According to the Ministry of Health, the Land Hospital has been given the strength to develop more efficient expert services in the region. The task is to provide a way for communication. In connection with this project, the Lands Hospital has put together cohesion with the Western Institute of Health for improved access to expert physicians. The task is in line with health policy aims to match national availability to the country's health care services and to the nationalisation programme as outlined above. It saves time, travel distances, and animals, not to mention loss of employment. It is also very important to strengthen mutual professional counseling between healthcare professionals. What a joy it is, then, to see that new disposal programs and medical policies are starting to work in real time!
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u8	A respectable president. It is my firm opinion that by ensuring equal votes, assuring votes, we are underlining basic human rights in Icelandic society, irrespective of the economy, sex and habitat. This cannot and must not be a change in the political arena. The same principle should apply to the people of the land, wherever they live in the land. The fact that the land will be one outstanding example may be a part of this wise, just step that allows us to have an opportunity to discuss it. Thus, members of Congress will be members of every country. That, in my opinion, adds sympathy and understanding. It strengthens the democracy, the perspective, and encourages us to expand Iceland so that we will be even more competitive in fighting the international community. In this competition, the key to all of us working here is Iceland. In this way we have a job at Reunion, and I think it's desirable that we always keep in mind that we must have a whole mind to be competitive in a great international competition. A report prepared by a administrative committee states the equal significance of a vote, with the permission of a president: The political influence of the citizens is among the basics of democracy and civil rights. This is very difficult to contradict. Different degrees of votes by votes can be compared to the protection of property rights between terms. I allow myself to claim that no one would accept that. Therefore, no one should accept the established discrimination of a vote either. We now have the full reexamination of the Constitution on the presidents of the political parties under the leadership of prime minister. We have agreed on a set of procedures, including some things that we have set our priorities. I think it's perfectly clear, including... In view of the findings and votes of a board's proposals, as well as the opinion of a survey presented during the day, it is a firmness of the country's will that we use our priorities and consider them. equal force in this terms. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u9	V.E.G. President. According to the annual report of Fish Labs, fresh fish were exported to containers of nearly 24,000 tons in 2013, but in 2018, 42,000 tons were exported uninjured. All of us should realize that all this fish can be won in this country. I would like to suggest that many jobs in fishing work are lost, not to mention the other secondary jobs that are lost. The dignity increase in fish full - time work is so great that we cannot tolerate the continuation of this trend. One manifestation is that the market prices at home have raised much of what is left in the fall because of the lack of fish and because of the fact that many fish produce raw materials for this reason. In 2009, just after a crash, the containers increased dramatically, and the government responded by stressing the subsequent export. Then it was taken away. During the unprepared question period of September 16th. When I took action against this trend, I made a marine espionage minister and asked if the top. Minister said he would respond. There was little response, and he said that he would not react. At Caslight during the dawns, the same answers came from the minister. Last night's employment committee meeting was scheduled, and it showed that a lot of these fish exported to fish farms, since low - cost workers are available there. V.E.G. President. This is what we need to stop. The respect increase in fish export is in the full - time operations at home, and that's where we have to protect.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u10	A respectable president. In the end of the council, I intend to talk about the activities of the council. Who doesn't know that we like to make laws without financial support? We promise something, we want to show that we do, but we don't have the money. We have made enormous decisions here in our arms on our farms, and in view of the fact that at this morning, we on the financial committee were called on Developmental Help, I'd like to give a special mention of the contract of user-controlled personal assistance, NA. She's a quota-controlled. Not everyone who needs it. People vary from place to place. Not everyone needs because our rural communities are different in their ability to handle the extra expenses involved in providing disabled persons with personal assistance. We condemn those who cannot get it into more bondage than their disability has already been. I'm saying nothing but that we're breaking equals, we're indiscriminate, and we're putting into the arms of our rural communities our promises that we can't deliver and we have no money behind us. I don't like it, I think it's really bad, and putting goodbyes on it to any disabled people who need user-controlled personal help to keep it that way, I think it's the last kind of thing. And who shall say, You shall receive, and not thou? Who's a town to do that? Is that how we want to do our job? A respectable president. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u11	Mr. President. More than a year ago, the Allied Council agreed to accept electric cigarettes and refills, and the law went into effect in March. Although it is not long since the implementation of the law has taken place since their sentence of concern. In spring, summer, and this fall, information has been presented, including from published medical journals, about the damage of electronic cigarettes. The U.S. authorities have taken measures to limit the distribution and sale of them and the European Medical Association have said that electronic cigarettes cannot be recommended as a means to help people stop smoking as they were, as many recall, one of the basic arguments that were used in the reviews and discussions of the subject at the time. Iceland's Medical Association agreed to a legal resolution against electrical cigarettes for its main meeting recently. The responsibility of the government and the council in this matter is great. We cannot afford to sit by and wait for more information to come out. There are already data that requires attention. I'm glad that the surgeon and health minister have responded and hope that members of Congress will take a good look at further defenses within the legal framework. It is evident that we were not making laws about innocent consumers but substances that could potentially have serious health problems for those using the product. Especially should we bear in mind that more and more preschoolers use electronic cigarettes, children who never smoked, and who would, compared with all the available data, do not start smoking but have become addicted to nicotine. By the 19th century, German doctors had discovered a link between smoking and lung cancer, but it took health authorities nearly 100 years to turn on the bulb. Heroin was invented and marketed as a cough medicine and a good way to establish morphine addiction around the turn of 1900. We should be encouraged to take action by the warnings that now ring forth on new electronic dangers every day. The risks of waiting and seeing are simply too much.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u12	Mr. President. I'm going to discuss only the vast export of unexplored fish, but we on a professional committee covered it at our last meeting and will continue tomorrow. There is good reason to be concerned about this massive export, which is growing much year by year. Up to 55,000 tons are being exported that may reflect 500 jobs, as well as a sum of worth that disappears from the country through this export of unexploded raw materials. I think the government will have to see which avenue we can take in this massive export. It should be the minimum of fish markets, where the direct sales of fish merchants from abroad are high, and Icelandic people, agents, shops, and sells - others don't offer the fish that goes through in direct sales. In fact, it's not illegal in fish markets, we just need to change the law or law to change it. It is minimal to the small and medium-sized fish industry, which I have often spoken to from this platform, have the opportunity to offer in this fish and then stand as closely as high as the people who see their advantage in transporting these raw materials unpublished to large productions, government grants within the EU even, since it is produced by people who are much less paid than our fish farms have, although it is not on high salary. I think we need to focus on the economic effects of this large export on unmanned raw materials. Much community responsibility rests on companies who have access to our common resource. Let us remember that the aim of fishing management is, among other things, the aims of fishing management. to promote and trust employment in the settlements of the country. This has continued to cause urban disorders and losses for the entire community.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u13	Mr. President. A direct result of a talk in the past issue. I'd like to discuss sustainableity, which is becoming all - out in many parts of the council. We have been greatly neglected as Kingdom proclaimers. Then I mean growing food within the country before internal consumption, the main source of domestic food. I also mean food such as this with larval for exporting, both vegetables and fish, and fish that use heat. These may become special products that are exported by carbon abstract transport and may become what I have called the energy - efficient industrial, major industry of the Icelanders in the future. I remind you, this encourages what we've called a cycle economy and helps the climate. In this connection, I'd like to mention a special subject related to this, the subject of the Smoke School or the Gardening School as we often call it, which is under the National Agriculture University of Iceland. The school is a key center in everything that turns into warmth. I call attention to factors that must be well thought of, i.e. new policies in collaboration with the article, improved and improved education for those who want to work in this important article, the need to make school more attractive, including with emphasis on innovation and increased research, and the facilities and equipment of this school work. It's been in a lot of trouble for a long time. I'm simply saying that we should promote and reinvent the land. We are also required to promote and motivate the school of Smoke because we must place great emphasis on making the best of the future right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u14	A respectable president. A discussion of climate and carbon binding has hardly been ignored by the inhabitants of this country. Reinforcing forest is one of the factors that are viewed as carbon. Foresting and land healing have been proposed by the government, but some offenses are involved in the process that since 2008 more than 40% have been reduced in income management and deforestation. The government does not negotiate with farmers, and although it assumes that it takes ten years to plant each farm, it would take 40 years to meet an existing contract compared to budgeting 2019. Deforestation aims on farms, as defined in law No. 95/2006, on national deforestation projects, is creating a forest resource in Iceland, cultivating multisession forests and safety belts, building buildings, and promoting employment. In each part of the country, forest development should be aimed at at at at least 5% of the area below 400 m above sea level. If the original purpose was met, governments could be quick to work to meet the objectives of the Paris Convention on Climate. It may be possible to increase forest carbon binding rapidly by making contracts and working according to a ready - to - do plan and organization. There, progress was achieved rapidly without the need to be added to the infrastructure or construction of the project. The amount of money spent on the project may pay off directly. A report published by the National Institute of Economics (U.S.A.) by Brynhildur Davíðsdóttir's granddaughter, February 2017, shows that the 4-fold forestry speed could be increased from 369,000 tons to up to 535,000 tons in 2030.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u15	President. Earlier today, there was an invasion of Tyre in Syria. The proclamation of the cause of the invasion, according to the gathering of the president of this alliance of our country in NATO, is preventing the access of terrorists to the southern border of Turkey. The president of Turkey goes on to state that through the invasion the Turks will preserve Syria's geographic sovereignty and free the inhabitants of the land from terrorists. President. The invasion of Turks is a crime against peace. It violates the basic laws of national rights, and I call the government, especially the Supreme Court. Prime Minister Katrín of Jakobsdóttir's daughter and of the highest degree. The minister of the minister of the gods, Þór Þórðarson, declares it to be the first. It is explained in the UN Convention and in the judges of the International Court of Hague that it is a fundamental crime that a sovereign state invades another sovereign state without the entrance and approval of the United Nations Security Council of the United Nations, except for self - defense. Clearly, that protection is not relevant in this case. I'm calling for the highest. Ministers call this invasion the right name, i.e. A crime against peace, an illegal invasion. I call for this in spite of the hypocrisy that obviously involves declaring it in this case rather than in the past. When the United States, the British, and the French started their air raids against Syria about a year ago, we have to start calling things the right names. Governments must not invade other countries. Also, NATO must not invade other countries. Yet, we can see again and again, Mr. President, that such invasions occur and that the world's leaders of the NATO states or other warlords begin to bear all kinds of defenses of their invasion wars that do not measure up to any opinion. I call on the government of Iceland to condemn this invasion and to do so correctly, that it is a crime against peace that may not be tolerated, although it means that we may have to look in the mirror as a result.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u16	Mr. President. The banks now assess whether there is room for growth after the spring bank dropped its primary growth by 0.25 percentage points last week. Since April, the primary growth rate has decreased by 1.25 percentage points and has not been lower in this century. There should be a positive for the homes and businesses in the country. However, the executives of ASI and VR say that the banks did not return a loan reduction. Today, reports reported that Iceland's bank is going to decrease growth by 0.153/4.25 percentage points, not 1.25 percentage points. The banks complain of the state's high curses. They say it narrows their space to grow. With less spells, even apartment loans could decrease by 1 percent, according to them. So now the primary growth rate has been reduced by 1.25 percentage points, but banks cannot reduce growth to the public except by 0.25 percentage points because they are so taxed. Clearly, then, they are going to increase their own interest in making better money for owners. This is the same group that says to the state: Pay back the taxes, the bank tax, the deposit fee, and more, and we will give it to the public. They are not exactly showing it in action in this example. The bottom line is clear, Mr. President. Clearly, the banks intend to use a planned reduction of the bank tax to increase their own interest, resulting in the benefits of shareholders, such as the hedge fund in Adoni Bank. Increasing interest will not help the public with lower expenses and interest. The reduction in bank tax should be subject to the requirements of the bank's services and to offer a better interest in households and companies. If these conditions are not met, the bank tax should not be lowered.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u17	V.E.G. President. Children's rights and added service to children and children are among the priorities of the government and are made clear in the government covenant. At dawn, the General agreed to a proposal for the resolution of the four - year - old child protection programme. It aims to promote early child protection development, to promote early intervention, to improve cooperation between countries and rural groups, and to increase the number of available resources. 600 million is expected. K. fund to build up and develop resources and services in the category of languages. Last week, the Ministry of Social Affairs met a large conference in Harpa under the heading Changing for Children in cooperation with Junior National Association. The convention was very well attended. There is a possibility that children will not be helped in time, waiting for analysis, and during the waiting period, often becomes extremely small, and the problem grows. It is urgent that there is more convergence and integration between public services than there is today that those who provide services do not necessarily speak together. Some areas of rural society are not formally involved, and no one has a defined responsibility. If a collective service does not exist, your child will not receive as much service as possible. Finally, Mr. President, I'd like to call attention to a synonym, which I've recommended and sent to a matter of well-being, which is about the right of children to recognize their origin. It means that the Minister of Justice will be committed to making laws that will ensure the conception of sexually transmitted children the right to identify their biological origin. It's the fifth time the Council deals with the matter. Our neighbors, the ones we usually compare with, have already guaranteed these legal rights of children, and I hope we will.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u18	Mr. President. I'd like to call attention to the news releases of Iceland's Hausp Office since yesterday regarding the individual property status of Icelandic homes that are prepared from tax returns by 2018. That's where even the two of them come from. to the point that individuals' personal status has been strengthened since the previous year by about 15.6% and a couple without children by 13.8%. At that time, a married couple's financial standing with children increased by 19% and by 25% of single parents from the previous year. The highest concentration between the age groups was 25◯29 years, 43.9%, and for the age group 30-034 years, she was 33.6%. Like the past few years, families with their own negative money in housing declined. By 2018, 3,275 families had a negative real estate status, about 26% fewer than in 2017. Their real estate, on average, was negative by 6.6 billion. K. In 2018, an increase from year to year was 1.2 million. K. In comparison, the total national weight assessment increased by 14.8% between 2017 and 2018. The family income in 2018 was a total of 4,744 billion. and increased by 15.6% between years, which is less than in 2017, when money itself increased by less than 23% between years. When this situation is considered, it becomes evident that it is better than that of any other northern nation. It is worth noting how fast the trend has been in recent years. I am confident that the changes at the time offered that part of the special savings could be used to pay off apartment loans were a big, positive step in this development. Economic growth has also been a major factor in the positive developments we see in the Habitat figures over the past few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u19	President. I'm having a bit of fun being here as a spic, as some call it. But what you find right away at the council is that it overrides your whole life and does it right away, even if you feel like you're not doing anything here. The first thing you get to fly is the daily movement. Number two is dinner and association at the end of the day with the family. Number three is a good night's sleep. After the collapse of 20091⁄2013, very many evening meetings and all kinds of confusions could be made available around here and work 24 hours a day with the circumstances. It was a lot of kaos. We were putting out fires, and we were in the ruins of rocks every day, as I'm sure a president remembers well. Nevertheless, the then president set up a family - married general group. It was mostly mentioned at night and night meetings when people were brought to sleep, for it seemed like a big joke. But perhaps it is time to restore the fine working force. I was here yesterday until night, and I'm not complaining about it. I really enjoyed it. For me, it's a little bit like a weird vacation from my day-to-day life. However, I am concerned with other members of the council sitting here and being not just members of the council one week a year but 52 weeks a year. The public thinks it's a little work here, and members of Congress are always on vacation, but that's not the case. Yesterday was even. Talk about the shortening of my work week, which I also thought was a joke, because many people talking about it were here for a period of 10 to12 hours, some even longer. By the time they got home, they would do things like replying to an e - mail and preparing the next day. This needs to be changed. I encourage senators to plan their tasks more carefully, to set their priorities differently. You people here are the only people who can change the Council. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u20	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for discussing this important matter with us and referring to the Minister's report on new methods of energy - building that I proposed a long time ago, published in November 2018. I hope that as many senators have been able to access it. It discusses some detail about the new benefits that will be more and more urgent during discussions and applications throughout the country, i.e. the wind. The wind power is a very flexible energy option. Small winds can be set up on a 1510 megawatt or something, a few together or even one or two, and large wind gardens, each producing a force of 100 to 200 megawatts or more. The benefits are becoming quite good and relatively rapid. In addition, the experimental effort on the surface of Burfells in this field focuses on various studies, showing that the use of cigars is good and practical. There are now two mills. The wind power is technically well developed, but there are a number of factors that need to be considered and determined or reciprocated if needed. If we watch this world, I'd like to first mention the legal structure around the whole process from the moment the idea that a wind plant is created by an inventor, the whole process, the demand for a suggestion to be considered. I think there are some suggestions that have to be made. Next, we need to see how organizational matters are being carried out in the district and who is making decisions about what to do. Then there is a permit unit, both for research and for construction. As part of the proposed activation of the total energy efficiency system of the country, the assessment of the environmental impact of the inducers above the specified minimum and finally categorizes the policies in accordance with the 2011 protection and innovation programme, i.e. A frame plan, as we call it. Are these big inducers there or not? If you think about this, it's a lot of important projects that have been studied in some way. This report has been compiled into a group of consultations, but there is still much left to understand and put in a complete context. I feel very strongly that harnessing wind energy, which can be considered and affected by other detonating programmes, laws and organisations that are responsible for government management in cooperation with rural society, and in accordance with both energy policies at national level and energy requirements, as well as those in the case of wind energy parks, measure themselves with large, medium-sized water and geothermal intens, or even very large initiatives, if required. Mr. President. I don't think it acceptable that large and medium-sized wind power plants rise in the least case without the universal structure. Also, I do not intend to spend time explaining the many opinions I have in these subjects, but I ask for the highest opinion. Minister of Energy on the basis of three things. First, how it sees the context between a frame plan and the globality of energy efficiency in the country and a wind power plant. Second, how to cooperate between the Generals, State and Regional Society in ensuring sustainable development of this energy sector so that there are values, natural endurance, community and economic boundaries. Third, whether or not it will provide information on the life cycle analysis or the overall survival of a wind power creature relative to other advantages, whether this comparison should be taken in the picture when making decisions about such a power plant. I could mention some more. I saw very sad reports about the death of birds in Norway, more than 100 of them had died in a certain period of time or had died in windmills, so there were many things to consider. I'm not going to ask about this point, it's getting too far outside the material for now, but I expect good and helpful discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u21	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A member of the Parliament for setting up a special discussion about wind power and wind power. These matters have been in the dough lately, and it is helpful to consider them at the General Assembly. I will seek to answer the questions as easily as possible. A senator has contributed to three teams. First of all, the question about the interaction of framework and wind energy is that key question to the management of a special staff of the Environment and Resource Ministry, the Ministry of Employment and Development and the Department of Transport and Civil Affairs. There are some reasons why the standard treatment of frame management is not sufficiently appropriate for wind efficiency, and its reasons are that, as a resource, the wind is insurmountable, especially in this country, in contrast with other energy advantages and is mainly confined by land space. The wind is not a local energy option but can be used in most places of the country. A wind power plant demands much less priming time and research than conventional energy efficiency is needed to build and destroy such structures. A wind power plant has less and irreversibly more than conventional energy costs, and considering this particular state of the wind is now considering whether and how it can tolerate other treatments within or outside the framework of conventional energy efficiency strategies. In this regard, I think we can take into account the approach of our neighbors. In Norway earlier this year, land maping was presented for the use of wind energy, which is defined as areas suitable for energy efficiency and which areas should avoid such activities. This methodology is based on the setting of areas with a comprehensive assessment of environmental, social, and systematic factors with the aim of rewinding in areas where the right conditions are resolved. With considerable simplicity, we can say that we have taken a similar approach to seawater so we can take another example. Such mapping involves, in fact, public policies on the use of wind energy, and it is important to my opinion that rural society has access to that work. Part of the work is to determine the factors to be the dominant for the mapping of land areas. In view of such factors as the weather and the wind, influence on birds and the environment, connections to the electrical transport system, globality, the presence of tourist attractions, or the localisations, cultural mines, social effects, and other factors. For example, in Norway, a 21 - factor wind - power map was won. When policies in the form of wind power are available, my opinion is that they will receive formal coverage and approval at the Council, e.g. In the form of a synonym, and such wind - power card could also be part of a national policy. That too is in a special consideration. As a result, there may be a possibility of simplifying the course of permission for the group that falls within the defined innovations. This is what a group of three advisers are now working to develop and will submit proposals for a New Year's Eve. I hope that then we will have a clearer set of lines and that a more reasonable trend in wind efficiency in Iceland's coast will no longer be uncertain about how to handle this energy source in relation to a frame plan. Second, the question about the endurance of nature and society is the very core of the concept of the mapping of areas that I was to swerve to be produced on the basis of a comprehensive assessment that takes into consideration environmental, social, and systematic factors alike, and that sustainability and endurance of nature and society must be part of that assessment. Here we can still learn from the way Norway and Scotland have won their policies and plans for wind energy based on land maping and to what has been called a good consultation and cooperation with rural areas and other key factors. Third, the overall survival of large electrical winds was asked on the basis of bioengineering. I believe that this element will be taken into account as well as that it will also be involved in the long-term energy policy currently being developed. In the case of wind energy, aviation analysis depends on the size of the windmill, performance, life time, and number, but many mills work more electricity than they also have more strings, URLs, etc. Thus, the overall environmental impact of wind energy generation depends on the individual case. It should be noted that the same is true of other energy options. Organisms that follow geothermals and water sources also have their way of life and have numerous LCA biography analysiss here will be done on the land of water supply and pollution right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u22	Mr. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, for starting this discussion of wind power and for being given the opportunity to participate in that discussion. This has been a relatively small source of wind power and is mainly known for the Burgs, where two mills have been operated since the end of 2012. As they reach 55 feet [55 m] high, each span is 40 feet [22 m] long, so they are up to a height of 77 feet [ 77 m] in the highest position or considerably higher than a Hallg Monster Tower. These two windmills have the ability to produce electricity for up to 1,200 homes. In Scotland, there is already a 7,000 megawatt wind power plant, which is more than twice the power of every power plant in Iceland, and plans to increase it quickly to over 13,000 megawatts. Mr. President. The harnessing of wind has countless advantages. The influence of wind plants on land's landscape and face is strong and visual influences are often hundreds of miles away from their location and could influence tourism. In turn, windmills are reversible and can move the land to its former end and take it to others. The influence of wind creatures on bird life has been considerable in the discussion, especially in Norway, since it has largely cut into the seas in that country. This is something that we need to consider carefully and carefully, carefully reviewing the material. Experts believe that it is better to build wind mills in a few well - chosen places, and I agree with them rather than to spread them all over kerosene. This is especially true in the case of birds. Mr. President. Governments are required to set such policies as soon as possible and set a difficult legal frame of wind power.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u23	Mr. President. Why do we Icelanders not use wind gas more? The effects of windmills are reversible, unlike the effects of hydropower workers and geochemists, and there is no exhalation of unwanted chemicals from windmills. Wind efficiency does not bind future generations of land use. The main reason for the lack of wind power in the region is that the cost of producing electricity has been greater than for hydropower and geothermalists, and so far there has been no lack of renewable efficiency in Iceland. Through the development of techniques and improved technology, wind power becomes an increasingly practical option. There are still things to be care for, as we have seen here. It is not enough to wind a blow from time to time. Windmills work, e.g. Not in flames, not in too much wind. Maximum efficiency is a constant and somewhat high wind speed. The test of Land activation using a windmill's installation north of Burgundy shows this to be true. Electric activities are mostly over the wintertime when the wind meets the most. The Icelandic energy system is largely based on a water-related power that works well by the unstable wind power. It's more windier in Iceland than in most countries we compare with. Thus, in Iceland, windworm generates more energy every year than a piece of the same size of land elsewhere. The trend is rapid in building windmill gardens around the world. Scotland is a country we can compare ourselves with in these areas. Dans were using a windmill park that could produce electricity for all Icelandic homes and more. The building of windmill gardens, such as visual pollution, sound pollution, and animal life, will take into account many benefits. Electricity produced by windmills could be a good addition to the electricity production available here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u24	A respectable president. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Ari Guðmundsson, for bringing up this discussion and for sharing in it. The interest of private investors in investing in wind power plants and the growth of smaller hydropower operations in this country. This is hardly surprising, since there is a great opportunity to develop renewable energy sources in Iceland. The geographical scale of Iceland is unique in terms of the use of wind energy and is not limited here by areas open to the wind, some of which are extremely favorable. Energy agencies have noted that there is a great excess demand for electricity in Iceland and that it is urgent to take special note of the policy frames for the efficiency of wind energy and this applies specifically to the definition of wind power parks and wind farms. In fact, land induction has also pointed out that wind - power projects are likely to take longer than four to seven years in Iceland compared with neighboring nations. Clearly, more is needed in preparing wind - power plants. At 148 C.E., the answer to my written inquiry reached the highest level. Tourist, industrial and innovation minister of wind energy and whether or not they'd been working on putting in special laws or regulations on wind power gardens or wind mills for electricity production. In answer to a minister, refer to the government's Treaty to provide laws on wind power and to cooperate with local authorities on organizational decisions and permit measures. Our neighbors have much experience in building winds, e.g. Shots, but their experience shows that the structure of wind energy does not produce an impact on tourism in that country. An energy agency points out that the most important factor in using wind power is already determining the location of a wind plant. This is also a major factor in the local selection of transport systems and the transport capacity of electricity. Clearly, many aspects of this relationship are important, therefore it is important that governments resist appropriate laws and rules in which society's interests and sustainability are guided.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u25	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for your discussion. I'm glad we can start discussing energy on a more positive basis than we've had to get used to in the past few months. The question was asked earlier, "Why don't we use wind power more? " There are several reasons why. One is that it has simply been very expensive until relatively recent, but the cost of producing electricity from wind power has dropped dramatically over the last few years and is one of the largest means of access to energy exchange, switching from non-environmental energy sources to environmentally friendly. The second advantage, too, that is in a tremendous rise on a global scale, is solar energy. It's like, you know, maybe it's a whisker. Senators may not know this, however, is not necessarily the most acceptable option in Iceland because of its location on our planet, but the wind power must have a very rich place here. The other reason we haven't used wind power as much as we would like is, of course, that the government hasn't been prepared for it, I would say, or that's how I interpret the material I've come into so far. It is good to hear the harmony from what happened. Councilmen and the highest. Minister on how to take the next step. To be honest, I would be interested to take another such conversation when the results of the three advisers who now submit the year - to - year schedules, if I understand correctly, and especially to see what matters will follow, which I expect to be needed. I have heard that it is even not entirely a common understanding of exactly how the letter of the law around it is as a matter of confusing matters, and then it is difficult and slow to take on a major task if the government and the legal environment do not assume that it is. What a joy it will be to see this change over the next few years! Also, I welcome the solidarity that I see in the discussion of making more use of this option than we have ever done to this day.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u26	Madam President. I agree with other members of the council here and celebrate this discussion. It is also a pleasure to hear the harmony of the Assembly Hall. The efficiency of wind power must, according to the nature of the matter, be very desirable for us Icelanders. This is probably one of the energy we have a little too many that will go well with us in this context. It is very important that this quality be shaped so that it is clear how we plan to build them up. We are well aware that the practical application of water sources can be very effective, but we need, of course, to consider that sustainability here as well as anywhere else, and the environmental impacts and that we do not act rashly or make dramatic mistakes while walking into that area. I'm pleased to hear that this is a practical option that we have to make good use of. It's an environmentally-friendly source of energy, and there's plenty of it here. It is no secret that opinions within this government for the use of energy over the head are quite different. I hope that in the shape of the necessary legal environment, we do not make the same mistakes that we have come into with a frame plan that can simply be said to be an unusable device the way it is today. We have been stranded and have been stranded for many years in a frame plan for an eternity of debate with the instrument it was supposed to exist for not only for innovation but also for protection. That knot we must resolve. I hope there's something to learn about the government plans on how we can get ahead with our work in the frame plan, but I really hope we've developed a legal environment on the use of wind energy, we don't get into the same trouble we've done with a frame plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. Guðmundsson To this discussion and to the highest. Minister for participating in it. We are dealing with wind, and there we must take great care to go to the earth because we know the wind from the sea above Burfell. I've looked into it specifically, and there we are talking about activation or a windmill of 77 meters, i.e. When she's at her highest position, she's referring to the Hallg Monster Tower. Unfortunately, today is twice or approaching a triple - size monster, as I would say in many respects, because there is no smallness when it goes near 200 yards [200 m]. Unfortunately, too, such large windmills cause the death of birds in Norway on the arrow there. That is why we must go to the earth with caution, and we must make sure that nature enjoys the doubt. We cannot afford to ignore a bird's life. There is another factor in this: It is very good to a windmill that I was looking at in connection with the windmill at Haki. During the winter, it produces very good electricity when the water supply is minimal, and then the summer is better than the bird's life. It's an interaction that we have to think about, and that's why I'm saying we have to make sure that nature protection is guided. At the same time that this is an eco-friendly energy that is necessary, we have to make sure that it is settled in harmony with nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u28	President. I think this is a good and important discussion, and I always celebrate it when we discuss energy in this room. In my knowledge, energy is the key to sustainability when it comes to carbon balance and so many other things. That's where the wind comes in. It has been discussed in a working group on the shape of energy policy, and sometimes when we discuss certain things about wind energy - and as noted in the media by various experts - that the enthusiasm for using it is so strong that it is as if some fear that it will submerge permanently in Iceland. Therefore, I am particularly pleased with the way the government has held that issue, organized a group of three advisers who are considering the proper use of this energy, linking with national structure, etc. Those who have considered exports of the ideas of wind - milling countries of the sea have also seen that carefulness, pause, and listen to comments has taken over the idea of complete communication. Such actions need to be addressed. Over and over in this, there's nothing carbon, and it's not just that but negative carbon culture that we have to go to where we tie more than we dump. Therefore, it is up to me to look at the sustainability of every priming option. It contains windmills on the top but also all of our energy systems. Energizing the wind in the production that is not good for its carbon inhabitants is not a good step, but using wind energy as other energy in improving carbonuria is always a good step.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u29	Madam President. I would like to start by thanking the advocate for requesting this special discussion. I think we're going to discuss here a very important matter which is how we Icelanders are going to face the use of the wind in this country. I would like to quote the Treaty of the Government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, by permission of the president: In addition to cooperation with rural guidelines on organizational decisions and permit measures, ◯Setja needs a law on wind power plants. The government is truly concerned about the matter, because this is a big deal. I am one of those who serve on a energy policy committee where much work has been done since the middle of the last year. I believe one of the largest cases of energy policy committees is just to shape a vision of how wind uses in this country. This is a unique opportunity to take the initiative in building energy efficiency by wind power. Today, the image of the efficiency of wind energy is developing that the cost of megawatt production has decreased by half in the past ten years. In the coming few years, costs are expected to drop further so that within a few years, energy will be produced by wind at a pair of our most beneficial sources of water. It has been found that there are great opportunities in the wind current. The average efficiency of the cigars has been about 50% while it is estimated to be about 28% worldwide. A combination of hydropower and wind power gives us Iceland's huge potential for making better and maximising its use of national energy resources. I welcome this discussion, and I thank the advocate, thank you, for recording this important matter at the council Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u30	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson for bringing up this matter. In Iceland it is high today, and each plan will rise in the wake of wind milling gardens that harness as much as our beautiful country or the wind has to offer. The last time was approximately 27 mills to be set up in the Sun in the Valley of Salmon and the lowest mills to straddle 150 yards [150 m] in the air, i.e. More than two Hallg Monster Towers. They will then be added to the 59 mills for rise at Garps Valley and in Hóography. Iceland is but a few mills from abroad, and it's only been a part of research project that's happened to them in Iceland. The fact that there are now 86 mills in the pipes may be amazing, and many people wonder why this great interest has never been raised before. Then comes the brilliant investor of history, how he links the political bitch in Iceland with investment opportunities, and makes a lot of profits. The purpose of investments is that they are profitable and make the most of the profits they make for the money they earn. Granted, there are many ways to achieve that goal, provide a safe loan, buy an enterprise or invest in countries such as energy resources. The advantage of energy resources, however, is that it is a secure investment. V.E.G. President. It will then have to be taken into account that energy prices in Iceland have always been quite low compared to other countries, and it has not been profitable to invest in energy production here in a country where fortresses and windmills are expensive, and it takes a long time to pay them back and collect money, but investors are about to start off and probably see a lot of profits in the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u31	President. We speak especially of wind. I still want to talk about renewable energy. The wind power is a natural part of it, and what is joyful now is that wind power prices have finally fallen very much, and other renewable energy sources have fallen dramatically. Technology in this sector is rapidly moving toward what is natural because of global warming and a lower demand for contaminated energy sources. Today, the cheapest electricity in the world comes from wind power parks in China and the United States. That's good news. In this country, we have lived in such a way that we have had a number of possibilities when it comes to renewable energy sources and we should totally monitor wind and evolution there. If we're going to do more, I think it'd be a good option, although much needs to be taken up, as well. Perhaps it is the best course because windmills are reversible, but many of us are also concerned about noises on birds. I think we also need to ask ourselves, " Am I in Iceland who usually has everything to do with energy? ' Do we need more continuum transfunctioners in this country, whatever they may be? Is that enough?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u32	A respectable president. Here, we will discuss an urgent opportunity to use energy, wind, bubbly, goss, goads, slangs, and stunners, regardless of age or land. Similarly, it is a real challenge to choose a place of wind power with society and nature. In addition, we will expect to look up to an increasing extent on the overall survival of projects and carry e.g. A combination of overall resources for energy generation is different. Although my knowledge of the activation of wind does not cut deep, I believe that it is very important that we discuss the benefits and challenges of the use of wind energy, most of which are in the community. This discussion is part of it, and I want to thank you. paritaprevir Alaput Ari of Guðmundsson took the initiative. The Guideline for the Organization for Organism and Energy Use is a good basis for discussion like this. It is preferable to discuss organization in general before society has to take a position on individual applications. The questions of the Organization are about to be asked. The following are: Is electricity a threat or a lack of energy in the area or in the area? Is there any other way that energy sources can be considered evenly or evenly? Does wind efficiency give a chance to make new valuables in the community or in the area? Is geographic conditions favorable or adverse to the use of wind energy for protection, global and global? Is the current or planned use of land likely to be successful or ill with wind use? Do circumstances vary in different parts of the community? What is the connection to the electrical transport system? There's more to be counted on. I have high expectations for the work now being done by governments, and a minister went over at the beginning of the discussion, since we need both a clearer course and a law frame in this area.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u33	A respectable president. I'd like to expand it a little. We'll talk about wind power and renewable energy production. There is one party in the battle against climate change, which is the biggest battle we have ever faced and hopefully the largest person we will ever face because if it becomes much bigger than this, the future is not bright for mankind. Here and there are hopes in the battle against climate change, including growth and growth in production of clean energy sources such as wind and solar energy. On the other hand, there are two other factors that do not reach quite the same extent - electrical connections. As people know about the West, they are often spoken of as needing more energy, and they too need to move to their place. The other is, where the knife stands in the cow, which is a major problem, storage power. One method is constantly developing and is now a bit of good news, it's hydrogen production. It has the flaw that making it takes a lot of energy. You don't get the same energy from the winter you put in it. It is gradually improving and has become an investment in the industry in developing that technology. When the two are mixed together, hydrogen produced from water and energy, which produces no carbon dioxide, and, on the other hand, electricity production is in a somewhat green branch when it comes to driving vehicles specifically and machines that we cannot effectively use electricity, say transport vessels, or airplanes. It's all something that's developing when it comes to energy production. It's been asked if we needed more energy and the answer is: Yes, we need a lot more energy, we need a lot more energy, we need power, not only to drive electricity at our home, but also to create other energy sources that we can use to cope with even greater problems than simply the electricity in our home. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u34	A respectable president. We're still discussing wind power, and I'd like to point out that a group of people has provided a environmental bill. It's a spell. 90, 90th matter, change of environmental impact law, No. 106/2000. There we recommend all hydropowers, which have 200 kilowatts or more power sources and about 2 megawatts or more for environmental assessments and projections. We must be careful, too, because evolution is so fast that we cannot in itself build a huge wind mill garden in Iceland because if we are to choose the right places, it is by water or sea. It usually has the biggest wind and perhaps the smallest effect, but I have to say, as it is, when you see large windmills abroad, they're ugly. They're more sensitive to the environment, and I like them, for example. not the thought of setting up a great wind mill yard on the south side of the West, an eagle scale. I say for my part, we have to make sure that when such a food is taken up, it is done at the very point where it will cause the least damage to natural and bird life.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u35	Madam President. In the end of this discussion, thanks should be given to all who have participated, to the highest degree. Minister in particular. It is a joy to see a positive attitude toward wind power as a first step. There's a lot to go on, as I mentioned. What I don't want to see is some kind of a race without a frame, the race of companies and rural society to provide a lot of wind power gardens into an organization. You need to slow down and get a hold of this good energy. So I'd like to point out one thing, it's very important that the proportion of wind energy in the total energy production is defined individually. Why is that? This is because the transport of electrical energy cannot be controlled if the primary emphasis is placed on wind power and geothermal energy, however, because it is not possible to regulate what humans call it, unless it has a very stable but adjustable energy production and, of course, it is hydroactive. This must always be mixed in a bag and must be very well defined for the overall ratio. With regard to defined areas, I would like to point out that the ground - wide circulation of the Lone Sveinbjörnsson Einar of meteorologist exists where the country has been classed in a suitable wind - power field. Of course, there are countless other factors to consider when determining what to use and what not to use. Vision pollution and bird death are things to take into account, and as for the reversibility, I would like to remind you that this is a natural intervention. It is loaded with loads of loads, most important, from the whole process, from the time of the mill to the time it is completed. While in business, it is not a big eco-efficiency but then again when disposed of. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u36	Madam President. I thank those who participated in the discussion. I also have to agree with those members of the council who have specifically mentioned that the basic community is considerably higher than I had realized or allowed myself to hope. Of course, it's always about exporting, as in any case, and we'll have some opinions about it. This is a great opportunity when I hear the discussion about such energy production. It is quite different in the discussion of other methods, and I think it's an opportunity for the General. I would like to mention the same interaction, as it were. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson came in, and others, the wind at the power of the water. We waste too much electricity today, and by building wind power, we can prevent or reduce waste, at least greatly improved efficiency, therefore, because of the well - working nature of the hydropowers. I finally wanted to put things in perspective just because they mentioned earlier where the book was to be held at home, i.e. is this particularly within the framework? I don't think it's important that we don't get into the box that we put out here, because we haven't been able to handle it properly for far too long. Therefore, I don't feel that this is going into that document. Rather, it needs a special rule and some kind of particular channel, even though it has some place in the laws on energy protection and efficiency.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u37	A respectable president. The Congress of Pirata votes against this hurry-up treatment in a case that interferes with civil rights protected in the Iceland Constitution where no notice has been given. The matter has had no consultation with the partner, and the concerned partners who enjoy freedom of society have not even been informed because they are to be accepted today. As a result, Porta's council votes against city rights as much as the treatment of this case shows.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u38	A respectable president. I recommend a committee program with a bill-change proposal to legalize the criminal treatment laws, No. 88/2008, with subsequent changes, for sales of holding and secure possessions, remember and so on. This is a review from a majority of the General and Education Committee that has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Áslaug Jósepsdóttir and the Ragna of Justice Bragadóttir Bragad. The bill suggests adjustments to legal requirements for criminal treatment, No. 88/2008. The bill is a factor in responding to the protests of the international financial group FAFF, Finland's Action Board, which made assessment of Iceland's defenses against the financial and funding of terrorism in 2017, Iceland being a member of the FAFF. The bill is intended to match one of the factors that FAFF made note of in its report, i.e. lack of rules for handling items and items that have been stored or confined by the competent authorities. The majority stress that the bill is an important factor in strengthening the European legislation and implementing the case. The majority suggest changes in the technical bill and suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following changes: 1st Following the words "Second " in paragraph 1, paragraph 1, or" sell, " or "discernment, " respectively. come on: sbr. 1.mg. 2. The bill's headline will be: Cells to legalize criminal treatment laws, No. 88/2008, with later changes (salving stocks and sedentary possessions and memories). Jón Valdimarsson Valmarsson signed this opinion in advance of a short notice and speed of payment for this case and thus the amount of time the committee had to discuss the matter does not reflect the practice that the committee would like to take care of and management. The committee, however, is a pity in which great interest is involved but will be severely threatened with discouragement and slowness of the government in preparing the case. Árnadóttir Colbömnadótir, who was away from the case, signed with a warrant in 4 mg. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. Under this literature, Páll Magnússon, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Árnadóttir Kolbrún, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, with a warning set before us and the rest of Ingi Pétursson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u39	A respectable president. I briefly explain a minority party on a deck. 205. I'm going to review the points presented there, but in other respects, I'm going to refer to the very minority opinion itself. For one thing, the smaller part considers the treatment of this matter unacceptable, as it seems undisputed to me, but human beings are essential. Second, a meeting of the General and Education Committee revealed that rapid treatment of the bill was required on September 1, 2019. However, the bill's report states that this should have been clear from a report on FAFF in April 2018, last year. So the memory part cannot see that it was necessary to wait so long on this matter. This could have been done much earlier so that it would receive proper political treatment. But it wasn't as famous as it has become. Third, the bill turns to property, and it is briefly reviewed in the bill's report on how it is considered to be in harmony with the regulations of the Constitution of property rights. The evidence may now be valid, but it did not take time to review them properly in my opinion, and there was no reasoning about it, and I don't find the evidence particularly strong at first glance. They may be effective, but when it comes to such therapy, it cannot be guaranteed adequately according to the less part. Most important, it brings to mind that the clients, those in particular seeking sides, were the Ministry of Justice, the local district attorney, the chief of police in the capital area, the governor, the governor, the district attorney, and the customs manager. They're all people who came to the bill. It would have been strange if they had opposed or had something to consider. We have not heard from any sources that could be exposed to this law, rightly or falsely. We don't know anything about it, whether it's financial institutions or anyone else. I don't even know who they should be. The treatment simply did not succeed, and no deadline was given, so no excerpts were received beyond those specifically requested from the writer or participation of the bill. It may well be that this matter is rendered inaccessible and is merely the best. I can't know about this kind of connoisseur treatment, so the smaller part of it can't be of short duration at this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u40	A respectable president. I can say with what. The senator's hurrying of this matter is not exemplary and is something the council should avoid completely. On the other hand, he takes particular note of who had been held on the basis of his opinion on the part of the committee. There he mentioned the parties who came to the bill and were contacted after government routes. We got a member of the Committee to handle this. But no one was forbidden to make such an appointment. It was discussed at a meeting of the General and Education Committee, and I don't remember any better than the senator sitting like the man standing here, and I'd like to ask, "Who was the guest?" To find out more about what had not happened to the committee, a senator came to a meeting? Or was it perhaps that he, like the rest of us, suggested no visitors?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u41	A respectable president. It was quite possible that this case should be approved before midnight tomorrow, and that is why it would not be the process of reporting that would be needed for such a case to be treated appropriately. I didn't suggest any visitors, exactly next door. A senator, for I simply didn't have time to wonder which guests it should be. We discussed this only on the committee. Hv. A senator does not disagree, for this is as short a time as possible to accept a bill over his head. So, with all due respect, I'm just going to say no to a respectable president, because I'm responsible for handling the situation. It is clear who is responsible for them. Furthermore, as stated in the minority opinion, it has been prior to last year that these legislation would have to be addressed according to a report on the FAFF, and therefore this case could have received the required treatment for the members of the council. We were now at the government stand asked for a so - called weather of the highest. (b) What questions will be considered in the next article? I'm made myself, so I'd rather not create a problem. I want to solve a problem. When I imagined it was impossible for this case to receive the therapy it should be given, I did nothing that I thought would delay the case, but I think it is perfectly clear that I could not imagine which guests should be, and even if we had received one or two guests, it would not have worked. It doesn't matter how they look at it. This procedure simply doesn't work. There is a reason why we have two or three weeks of notice on the subject. When it comes to a case, e.g. The republic's constitution, property rights inside it, obviously requires such a process. I can take this pill anyway. A senator, if a pill should call, but I refuse to be responsible for the contingency of this case. It is clear where that responsibility lies. She's with the government itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u42	A respectable president. The senator's unnecessary sensitivity is to think of me as putting responsibility for the treatment of the matter on him. But I agree with the senator. This trial is by no means exemplary. That's not the way to make bill a law. But in this case it was decided -- and now I need the English words for a·above o paygrade - in higher places in the government, above us. Councilmen, that this very case would have good weather. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson is equal to that. Surely, it would have been possible to think of some visitors who had shed a different light on the matter. The Senator did not criticize that we had called no visitors but that we had brought up a single - sided view from people who came to the bill. That is a fine pay, and the senator could have been conceived by members of the Committee who could have responded on short notice, such as has now occurred at the council, and would have attended the committee and presented their views. But it is not possible to assume that this possibility has not been readily available in the discussion of the committee. I just don't think that's an honest presentation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u43	A respectable president. In the short time we had, I don't know what guests we should have called to, I just don't know. It was like last night that I went to the General and Education Committee and I didn't know it was going to be on. This had been added to the program recently. I hadn't noticed. I had studied the program too soon. I mentioned at the beginning of the meeting in my dealings with the chairman of the committee that I had not read the case because I had not known that it was a program until it was scheduled and the guests were on the way in. That's the way it was. Following that visit, we wondered what guests should have. I have to admit that I'm not better at being made than I am so that I need a little more time than this to ask myself, " Which guest should take to cover matters I've never even had a chance to read. ' I'm just not a better senator than that. I don't consider it to be sensitive on my part, but even if it is, after the fact is, there were no viewpoints except those who worked on the bill. Away from who they're teaching them, that's the situation. It is among the reasons why the smaller portion cannot currently support this matter. Let's just say it's fun that it's my fault or my own fault, but that's the case. However, this is not a proper therapy for Congress, making the minority unable to support the matter. That's the way it goes. To put it this way, I appreciate the position in which the members of the board are in, having to accept a matter that no one would like to be treated well enough. I totally understand the situation, but my conviction is that someday we have to say, "Stop, no, we shouldn't allow this kind of work to happen. " This is not the first time, and probably not the last thing that comes in here could've happened much sooner, and we need to agree in a moment and start a compromise rather than the content of the bill, as we should have done if the genealogical treatment was good enough. I understand this, a respectable president, but I forgot to mention earlier that the smaller part consists of the ones standing here and why. paritaprevir Tryggvadóttir Trygvedóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u44	Madam President. I would not discuss this matter but discuss these matters in the next issue, which, of course, is the same understatement, in terms of both haste and nature. I come up here simply because of words as well as words. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson agreed that the trial was not exemplary. I'd like to allow myself to contradict that definition. We're doing a case where the interests that overlap with the Constitution are the rights of the city in the face of the fact that some company in town has to do more paperwork, find it harder to do their business, and we're a little embarrassed on the international level for continuing to be considerably ill with the FAFF and is considered to be on the grounds of their failure to fulfill our commitments. If you value that interest, I think it's only natural that the breakdown or intervention of the citizens'rights priority over any discomfort. To argue that the treatment is not exemplary, I feel that it is too mild to speak. I don't think this case is acceptable. That is why we disagree with this matter and also with the next one. But that was just the smell of butter that follows. I just wanted to make this statement so that there's a record in this case, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u45	Madam President. I recommend to the Committee to conduct a judicial hearing with a revised proposal on the behalf of a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee on a bill for a Community registration to the general population of cross-border activities. It's on the roof. 206. As noted in the committee's opinion, the committee was contacted by various members of the Department of Employment, the Ministry of Justice, the State Marshal, and the head of the tax. The bill proposes a new global law on the registration of partners to the public goods with cross-border activities to be obtained. The bill is based on the international workgroup's comments on how to handle the financial resources and funding of terrorism, FAFF (Finic Action Board Force) that these communities are not registered on land. The bill is partly based on work on a bill for a social law submitted to the last council and slightly changed by this council. Hv. The Economic and Business Committee had this issue for consideration and much to the highest level. A minister brings that matter back to material coverage. At the U.S. Marshal's O.P. analysis of the financial resources and funding of terrorism from April 2019, which followed the FAFF assessment of Iceland's defenses, there were some factors. magazine on companies for the greater good. It was noted that the police knew no examples of the misuse of money fraud or the amassing of terrorism in public society. However, there was a lack of overall perspective on enterprises to the common goods, data to their representatives, etc., and whether they are cross-border workers as determined by the State Police Department. This bill responds to the weaknesses in Icelandic legislation as diagnosed in the risk assessment of the analysis department and the FAFF assessment. The Marshal and the FAFF are joint scores in this assessment. Because of circumstances affected by the bill, it is essential that the law be obtained when it comes to values, as stated in Article 23. The bill. In accordance with temporary regulations in the bill, the general organisations under the range of the bill shall change their registration to the greater good in a community through cross-border activities at the law's office and submit the information to the public good company records of the governor's tax. According to the Commission, it is estimated that over a third of the partners are under the standards of the law and have failed to take steps to alert them. In view of this, the greater part emphasizes that fairness and moderateness will be kept from the work ahead of contacting the financial laws and providing them with information, guidance and a reasonable deadline to meet the requirements of the law. I think, Madam President, it is safe for me to inform you that at the meeting of the Commission with the tax president yesterday, a joint understanding of the Commission and the head of the state tax was made known that this would be the case. That understanding was clear and firm. In VI. The chapter of the bill discusses the ending of a society with a judgment date. In 1st. 14th par. it is said that a judge on the request of a spokesman could stop a social event on temporary occasions if a case was appealed to end it. Two. it shows that membership is permitted to be temporarily banned according to Article 1. the request of a minister or a state prosecutor, despite the lack of appeals, and that such prohibition should not be canceled within 14 days of the publication of the ban. The law does not make it clear who can impose such a prohibition on social activities if its requirements are met. The majority suggest that such records are made clear by the judges. The committee discussed the application of 2 mg. 14th par. It involves a major and burdensome intervention in social activities. It is important that such a document should not be abused for a purpose beyond what was expected. According to the regulations, the minister and district attorney may submit a request for an interim ban on social activities if a partner is likely to seriously violate the law or defined purpose according to its approval. The majority feel that the application of the warrant is properly limited and suggests that the request for its application can be strictly due to a State Attorney, while a referendum for a minister falls away from the provision. In addition, the greater part suggests that the requirement for an interim ban to be imposed is a suspicion that a partner will seriously violate the law or its defined purpose. Besides the changes I've made, there are several other changes I'm not going to trace. They are technical and do not have material influence. In addition to this magazine's view of the subject, here we are. And the residue of Brazer the son of Níelsson, and Brutti, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, and Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, and Silja the daughter of Dögg Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u46	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kálmson, director of the Economic and Business Committee, was a good review of the subject and the Commission's opinion of changing the proposal for the majority of the Committee. However, I would like to intervene in the case of the case in which it is presented, for example. In 1991, to the United States, we cooperated with FAFF and made a commitment to conform to legislation and legislation on the recommendations of these organizations. If governments do not recommend promoting defenses against the financial resources and funding of terrorism, they will usually be allowed to reimburse them. If this is not done, countries will go to a so - called gray list that can have a broad impact on their entire financial system and international credibility. It is of great importance to the public interest that we do what is called for and that we do what is needed. But surely, as members of the council have mentioned, the trial is not good. The speed is too high and information such as has not continued to reach the communities to which these changes in law are directed. That's not good. According to this, I would like to highlight what is presented in the Committee's list of objects as to how this problem can be dealt with. I'm going to pull down at the end of the committee opinion where it says the warrant is in the hands of a judge. Now I'm talking about 14. I'm just thinking ahead. The majority suggest that it is clear that it is solely the authority of a judge to forbid temporary activities. The majority of the committees talk about 2 mg. 14th par. It involves a major and burdensome intervention in social activities. Importantly, such a warrant is not to be abused for any other purpose than expected. And so it goes on, and it also says: ▪ The more part believes that the application of the warrant is properly limited and suggests that the request for its application is merely due to a State Attorney but that a minister will be expelled from the law. In addition, the greater part suggests that the requirement for an interim ban to be imposed is a suspicion that a partner will seriously violate the law or its defined purpose. It's perfectly clear. The article on the subject, on page 18. 11, we will also discuss how to meet the constitution and international commitments. It says, by permission of the President: The regulations of the bill are consistent with the Constitution of Iceland, but the freedom of men to form and join societies is protected by 74 st. Council of the Republic of Iceland, No. 33/144. The bill does not contain human rights to establish and become a member of society, but it contains rules for those associated organizations that fall within its range of values, i.e. Societys for the public goods established or operated are designed to collect or distribute money in the public sector and have cross-border activities. It also says, by permission of the president: The network's ribs are also in line with international commitments, e.g. The EEA Convention, but in the context of the European Union, it has been proposed to set up specific rules for social freedom and private institutions. Their rules, however, have been drawn for various reasons. It is mentioned again that the bill complies with FAFF requirements. A government tax manager is holding a very good partnership sheet, and we were told at a meeting of the Committee that it was very good and that they thought it was a small matter to fix up. The bill suggests that public interest companies who collect and distribute money in the public sector and have cross-border activities will be registered in an enterprise file run by the head of the tax and will have a distinct list on the other enterprises. separateing them from those specific associates from others should not be very complicated, we were expressed. I say again, even though it's obvious and we don't have to argue that the treatment is natural enough, the majority of the committees have responded with an aluminium that ensures certain rights and moderates about pars. The bill I think is satisfying. I believe that our interests are better paid by responding so quickly to meet these improvements rather than by not doing so. The report says that this could have a very serious effect on us, on our credibility. That's not good. In terms of the budget, I believe that the case as it is implemented and, as with the majority of the committees, it will not harm them or be a major burden to them. I don't think so. It turns out that they will be given time, and that they will be helped and other to meet the additional requirements proposed by this adjustment, which I think is reasonable and loyal to the rights of the members and members. To say that, Madam President, I will proceed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u47	Madam President. As it is, on April 6, 2018, this black report on Iceland's position came at the defense of money-covering and terrorist funding. There is a bit of a good time since, and governments have been working to improve their status in this regard. It became clear a few weeks ago that Iceland had to do better and that we needed to discuss this matter. The government and the administrative body ask for a smaller part of it that he is involved in this and will not stop the issue being settled in less than 24 hours. I realize that this matter has to be handled, and I don't want to risk it on time. But I'd like to ask why. A senator whether it is disrespectful toward the government opposition, and somehow he knows that he has not taken the government's side to win the case, for it is clear that it had to be won. That work has been going on for some time. Why did the administrative body not bring with them in preparation in this matter, since it will only pass through if the government's opposition did not provide sufficient information on all aspects of the case from all that could possibly give the information and explain the picture?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u48	Madam President. The talk on the first subject was spoken of as people who were above us in the series of pay, or how they were now spoken of as making decisions that we might sometimes be made to follow. You know, about a question or two. Harðardóttir I cannot answer for that, poor senator, why the decision was made not to represent the government's side of this job. I have no idea what it was like for a man and a project management on the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u49	Madam President. I asked why. This was the case with a senator because I couldn't hear her speech better than that she liked the matter despite all well prepared and would have no problem accepting it and she thought she was well informed. But a group of members that are going to be influenced by the bill is not aware of anything and that have not been given the opportunity to make comments on the bill. Well, maybe now. A senator will experience himself as a miserable member of the board. I haven't had that experience of her working with her in many committees, so I ask why. A member of the council whether or not this requirement was heard by a member of the council or not or recognized by this understanding of the government's position on the issue and its lack of influence. [[Up front.]] I can guarantee you what. A senator. It will not happen again that the Syndicates will remain silent under such quick treatment if it was known that they could have taken the government stand to heart and prepare for a hearing. This is the last time it happens. But this isn't the first time that governments and what. Councilmen participate in this with the highest power. Government to drive through this case at record speed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u50	Madam President. No, no, no. A senator mentioned here has not heard of the requirement, but it may well have been heard, and the senator may have been distracted. It happens. I wouldn't take the years so deep to say that the case is well prepared. As I said before, the trial isn't good enough, I repeated it before, and I criticize it as much as it was. paritaprevir Sodny G. Harðardóttir that he didn't allow room to alert those associates to the point where these changes in law are directed. It says in the Commission's list of parts, by permission of the president: In accordance with the Commission's information, over a third hundred members are expected to be under the standards of the law and have failed to figure out how to alert them. In this light, the more part emphasizes that fairness and moderateness will be kept from the work ahead of contacting the financial laws and providing them with information, guidance, and normal deadlines to meet the requirements of the law. As I said earlier, at a meeting of the Committee, the head of state tax went over it with us, whether it was this morning or yesterday, the manner of social registration, and explained that it was not a big matter to separate and organise this list, and to help the budget to meet the new requirements. So the case is as well prepared as it could be in the light of the situation, if I may say so, and the administrative part has responded to sensitive objects in the committee party with its emphasis that I think should be met with the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u51	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a matter that, as has been repeated, must be done very quickly. It deals with the registration of partners for the greater good with cross-border activities. Such societies are said to number 261, but that number, a list of these laws, was derived by a government officer's carrying out a certain estimate. Sometime this evaluation has taken place, and for some time it has occurred which communities are now under stricter conditions, and they are at risk of experiencing very burdensome social laws, temporary bans on society's activities, and imprisonments at the community's main meetings. Despite this detailed analysis work, these partners cannot be told that they will now be registered as a central community with cross-border activities. They must not be informed that they are now such societies before this law is pushed through the council on a 24 - hour basis. In response to this issue, the Agency FAFF, the Finnish Action Board, returned a very black report on Iceland's defenses against money theft and the funding of terrorist activity a year ago. There were many actions, and the government is now showing that they have responded very quickly in that indication, worked very hard on this list, and that the requirement that such a law should be set in Iceland was not clear until about a month ago. Since then, it's been quite a while to protest that Iceland had to produce songs like this. This is the comment we hear about why we have to do this bill 24 hours a day. At no time did the Board of Directors think it might be wise to speak only with the budget, now or the regime, at the time they were protesting that these laws had to be passed. It's because of the reason I object that no time has been given to do this. While we may have to do something that will strongly influence the freedom of society in Iceland, this does not excuse us for doing nothing and taking no preventive measures or anything that will exactly produce good weather, as we have discussed, in the discussions on this subject and in the cases discussed above. It gives no excuse for not working ahead of itself and looking to the relevant parties, to those who have any knowledge of social freedom, and to whether this law is necessary to meet the requirements of FAFF but to protect society's rights at the same time. It wasn't done, and that's why I'm totally opposed because this case is being taken care of every day, despite the fact that the consequences could be that FAFF says we should be on a grey list of non-cooperative states or something like that. The result is vague. I believe this provides a very bad example of interest within the council. We are making burdensome rules, and I must state that I disagree completely with what the bill says on how to comply with a constitution. It says, by permission of the President: The bill does not contain the limitations of human rights to establish and join societies, but it contains rules for those members of the union that fall within its range. Of course, the bill does not prevent the right to establish and become a member of a community, except perhaps if we're looking at the regulations of a minister I haven't had time to study, e.g. that a minister has a legal authority to post a fee for the establishment of such organizations. Could this not prevent people from forming such communities? What if the Minister decides to set 150,000. cost, or even a million dollars, for exactly that? Something like this has happened in the countries around us. In the Council of Europe, we can see a wide set of legislation that will get titled as a result of the terrorist threat and funding of terrorist activity, but it is used to strike organizations that are not in favor of the authorities. Discussion of these matters within the Committee has concluded that there is no need to worry that these laws will be abused for such a purpose in the legal world of Iceland. There are courts and courts, so there is no need to worry. I'd like to remind you that it was only two years ago that the Icelandic government imposed a multicenter ban on the financial activities of the then prime minister, two weeks before election, and it was a very long time before a court court of law found the logical conclusion that the ban could have affected the democratic election in Iceland. That was the whole state of justice. Still, it was allowed. It is true that we live in Iceland so well that we have independent courts, although we may also ask ourselves questions about this in view of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. Surely we have more than many of the nations now who are accused of using such strict laws to freeze possessions, dissolve and beat union groups that are thorny in the eyes of the authorities for one reason or another. It's well known. That is why, a respectable president, is not able to establish such laws in a 24 hour period. The bill may meet a moderate standard for reducing civil rights, but we have not ever been given to appreciate it. When assessed, for sure, restrictions can be set, licenses can be placed, and all sorts of things done to cut freeness of society in Iceland must be moderated. We have not been given any opportunity to determine whether this bill works moderately. Does the bill cover its objective? Is it essential that these laws be accurately set in order to achieve their goal? We've had no way of finding out if there had been any other options, if there's less burdensome rules. We have not been given an opportunity to learn exactly what kind of surveillance these institutions should be. But we do know that a U.S. Marshal should conduct a risk assessment of which communities are likely to be abused to pay for terrorist activity. However, these communities do not yet know. I don't suppose they'll know until after they've made their bill legal. This is one of my main critical points. I'd like to count the majority of it. The economic and business committees have taken steps to deal with anxiety and comments, including the ones listed here, on the 14th. in the bill on temporary ban on social activities where it says that a minister can insist on an temporary ban on social activities and has all too much room for the very burdensome consequences of such a procedure. Indeed, it is good to see the words "probably supported " in the conversion of the committee on that article. I'm glad you're here. This does not change, however, that we have not been able to determine the scope of this Regulation. Maybe it's too burdensome, maybe it doesn't measure up. This does not change the fact that we have not been given an opportunity to determine if there is a need for judicial action at a meeting, we have not had any opportunity to determine if there is a moderate order. The question then arises as to whether these laws are set for legitimate purposes if we do not determine whether or not they measure up. I guess we just need to keep track of the regulations that the Minister's rights will be used. According to the bill, the Minister can set, by permission of the President, a more advanced set-up of social registration by this law in a public society list, including on the logistics of the registry, access to the registry, and charge of the registry, including reimbursement, for the version of the certificate and the use of the information that the file has in computerized formats. We have not considered the substitution, and although it is certainly the introduction of the words, the suspicions of the committee for improvement, and the removal of a minister from the directive to be able to order temporary bans on the activities of a member of the club remain after the Court of Justice may be granted to a broken partner, if it has violated largely against law or defined purpose according to the approved body. The court can also grant the company a reminder not to perform it according to its approved condition. I haven't heard from anyone who's going to be exposed to this law. As a result, I have only been able to hear from those who represent the legal system and therefore cannot determine whether it is proper that no special supervision of those associates beyond what is normal can be considered in the light of this lawgiver, whether or not they work according to their purpose as outlined in the approved society. I just don't know. Finally, I want to talk about priorities. First, it would never have to be so intense on this matter. But since there's such a rush in the matter, there's a measure of interest to be taken. Here we are discussing the Constitutional rights of the citizens to freedom of society on the one hand and the proselytizing and potentially unpleasant consequences for business life in Iceland. When we make an assessment of interest and determine whether it is more important that we have an excessive or even illegal way to intervene in the civil rights of our citizens and give ourselves time to do so, or that we run up and hang on some law without giving the management stand any chance to provide democratic maintenance, without giving any opportunity to give the cohesion of any opportunity to promote their views despite the possibility that it would have been possible, since this list of 261 companies did not become of some sort, it did not happen yesterday - I cannot see that these priorities are not possible. I find it disrespectful to our duties and our oath to the Constitution. It is her that we must protect, and we need to be more careful to do so in the future than is evident in this matter. So I turned down any talk that this would not have been possible before. That's not true. So I refer to the Fatherhouses that we could not have been consulted in our position of government. That's not true either. I call on the government to play these games again in the future, to think only in the future, and to try to win a little better than this case shows.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u52	Madam President. Although I didn't mean to respond much, I feel compelled first of all to promote that there is no way to speak in that way. A senator made this possible freedom of company in Iceland. There's no law against corporations here. It's not illegal for individuals to start societies in any way. All talk of opposing the Constitution's confederacy is wrong, misleading language, perhaps serving some political purpose beyond my understanding. Hv. A senator must realize that all these societies, and in fact 15,000 more, are already on the government tax manager file. Why? Yes, because in order to be able to do a job that requires having a bank exchange, you have to register the Society to obtain a social security number for the governor and to open accounts. You cannot have a bank exchange in Iceland without accounting as a social security and social security number, you can only register and fill out specific information from the government tax managers, including the purpose of the club, who is responsible for society, etc. No one has ever thought that there is a special decrease in social freedom in Iceland. All we're doing is getting a full view of the cross-border organizations. They need to provide more detailed information than they do today. That's all the magic.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u53	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for the lecture. I must ask him back when he speaks of this as no intervention, no big deal, and that the matter has nothing to do with the freedom of society to do whether he agrees with what appears in his own committee, by permission of the president, to be discussed in the Committee for the application of 2 mgr. 14th par. The bill involves a significant and burdensome intervention in social activities. Isn't that right? Is it not a law to include burdensome intervention in social activities? That's all the magic. That's what I'm saying, if that's what I'm saying. A senator is interested in the answer, that these laws include burdensome intervention in the business of partners. It's the freedom of society I'm referring to. When the legislative intervention of a partner or a law is intended to be impaired, a fair assessment of the need for a legal arrangement must be made, whether it meets its purpose, and whether it is set for legitimate purposes. I'm asking why. In contrast, does he feel normal and acceptable to consider whether such an intervention is in harmony with a moderate rate of 24 hours? Is that possible? That's all the magic in what I'm saying, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u54	Mr. President. Hv. In his speech, a senator argued that this was a violation of the Constitution's social freedom law, and I'm just pointing out that it is not. That's wrong. Of course, such things are burdensome. We are making burdensome regulations, e.g. ... thatallcompanies are taxable. It's burdensome, but it's not against the social freedom laws of the Constitution, my God Almighty. We're dealing with an unusual situation, and I suspect this organization, FAFF, is wondering how the Allied and Icelandic governments have achieved quite an extraordinary amount of time to react to very serious comments so that by more than 50 factors, many of which were very serious, only six of these are now standing. Let's hope we have some right here in the future to pick up the two more. No one believes that the general Assembly of Iceland and the Icelandic government has this kind of attitude, as we have shown. Of course, the administration should be commended, and it is fitting to commend the Allied Council for having responded in a rapid, serious way to the comments made by FAFF last year. We should have confidence to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u55	Mr. President. I think that's what. A senator did not pay particular attention to my speech, as if he were not observing my countermand now. I never claimed that freedom of society was being violated. But I talked about it, and I'm only right and wrong. A senator if he thinks anything else, that it was being restricted or restricted to social freedom. When this is done, an assessment of whether the average rule was respected should be made. This must be done in a democratic society. Still, it sounds like I'm speaking for deaf ears because of the problem. A senator has left the hall and is not interested in my explanation. But I'd like to say again: When we were going to restrict the Constitutional rights, when we're going to put some kind of limitations on them, we need to ask if it's necessary in a democratic society to do so, whether this is the way we really need to go, whether there are any smaller ways to go. That is exactly what must be done. If we do not do so, we will not respect our freedom of choice. It's as simple as that. That's the whole truth.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u56	President. I'm sorry I haven't been fast enough, it's been a while since I last did this. We members of the United States will not be able to stand in the way of this matter, but we cannot accept it because of a lack of employment. But we will accept the adjustment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u57	A respectable president. We will sit by the votes of change proposals and either sit by or vote against the bill for itself materially because we feel that we are in accordance with the constitution have not been investigated properly, especially with the property rights. Now it may be all well, but it simply cannot be clear after such a basic opinion. For this reason, we make it necessary to have a vote or a vote against the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u58	Mr. President. You're absolutely right here, it's not good, not now, before or later, if we're facing a situation that needs to be resolved. Sadly, we are only in the reality that this matter has to be settled before noon tomorrow, and little time has been given to meditate on it as we would like to do with all our affairs. I believe, though, that the work being done on the committees does not give us reason to doubt whether things are both right. That is why the left movement supports both the issues being taken for release.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u59	Mr. President. As mentioned in the discussion, we in the United States have severely criticized how this matter is being handled. In fact, during discussions about these matters, we have seen that the government could have been called at the table sooner than it was not. We haven't had time to roll with all the rocks in this matter. It may work very well, we just don't know. I think, Mr. President, already the highest. The government asks for such cooperation with the government, that it gives a discount as required here, should contact it from the very beginning when it is being handled and it is clear what is going to take place. We in the United States will be sitting by the release of this case, but since there are adjustments to the proposals, we accept them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u60	A respectable president. When it comes to evaluating the priority, to ensure that the citizens' rights are always put in place, and that they are not restricted to unnecessary or in opposition to the average rule, or to provide some kind of rush treatment for any government that had at least A couple of weeks to inform the council of these purposes is very clear where our will is to be done. He's with the city's rights. So we'll vote against the bill, but yet we'll support adjustments that are certainly improving.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-09-14.u61	Mr. President. I've been by the vote on the bill that's being discussed here, about the social registration of partners, but I have to be on red right now. I think it's a perfect thing to do. This is best seen in the changes presented here. A very simple mistake is being corrected, suggesting that the matter is basically won. I'm pointing at something else, for example. 13th par. The bill, where a judge's authority is to complete a case with reproof. I don't remember seeing this before. Should a judge say to handle matters for, and if that is not bad enough, does he give some kind of reproof? What is that? I have to get red on this.
