ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u1	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct the change in XII. chapter 5 on criminal treatment, No. 88/2008, with subsequent changes. This bill is suggested after 88rd. Let the law bring you a new article of 88rd. a, where legal authority is authorized by the government to request a judge's decree of authority to sell stocks and stationary property and where it is at risk of losing value during maintenance or immobilisation. The bill also provides permission for Ministers to provide additional regulations for the sale of holding and stationary assets, as well as for the handling and management of non-employment. In part, the reason given by the bill is the assessment of the international financial activities of Iceland's defenses against the financial resources of terrorism carried out in 2017. A report published by the Agency on the assessment in April 2018 revealed that there was a weakness in Icelandic legislation and an act of action that required improvements from the government of the United States. Among the comments in this report was that the country lacked a whole set of rules on how to handle possessions and remember as contained or suspended by the government. There was a lack of authority to handle this situation when there was a danger of stocking up or holding possessions and relics that would reduce value during their maintenance or immobilisation. Is this bill a part of responding to the observations made by the review, but this is a requirement that the competent government can provide a court order to sell stocks and stationary property and, at the risk of demeaning valuables at the time. At the same time, it is suggested that a secretary's authority be established to implement a regulations that require further attention on the sale of such items, as well as handling and otherwise holding. Further, it is suggested that a judge's decision to authorize the sale to the land's rights be sought. The provision assumes that two requirements must be met so that a judge is allowed to grant a request for sale. On the one hand, a possession must have either been held in order to ensure its uptake or to hold a permanent payment of fines, criminal costs, and other demands; however, there may be a risk of loss of value during maintenance or immobilisation, such as this might be possible, for example. In the case of fast-solding equipment or equipment due to rapid technological development, have been lived. This gives rise to the interests of the State, which involves the loss of the value of holding and secure possessions and is still being remembered when it comes to their recordings and the interests of the owners of such things that do not need them to see the value of government funds when there is yet no evidence for the possibility of falling on their recording. There will also be great improvement in the handling and possession of responsored and stationary assets. A respectable president. These are the main points of the bill. I suggest that the case be referred to. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u2	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalize a partner-in-law with cross-border activities. The bill suggests that there will be special laws on the public goods of society that will collect or distribute money in the public sector and have cross-border activities. The aim of the legislation is that the enterprises that fall within the range of the bill are mandatory and that there is a special registry of them within the enterprises. The legislation also has minimal features on the structure and demonstrations of these partners. The bill responds to the comments of an international work group on the operation of the money industry and the funding of terrorism, a so-called FAFF team, in the AIDS Action Board, which may include: has made comments not to require the registration of any of the above - mentioned members on this country. The bill also responds to the results of state police risk assessment of money fraud and the funding of terrorism as well as the government's secondary action programme. Further, the bill is part of the massive operation that governments have already taken because of FAFF comments. The bill suggests that public interest companies who collect or distribute money in the public sector and have cross-border activities will be registered in an enterprise file run by the head of the tax and that there will be a distinct list of these enterprises. The obligation to register must be discussed with any partners who fall under the range of the bill. The set of values is limited to those enterprises that fall under the definition of FAFF in the public community, which includes legal or comparable members or organizations that have the main objective of collecting or dispensing money in the public service, such as charities, religion, culture, education, social or other charity. The cut-off of the standardised bill is also considered to be a risk factor for the actions of FAFF and therefore the registration of the partners who fall under the above definition of FAFF and are considered at the highest risk of misuse by members of the Member States, which are enterprises that collect or distribute funds in public terms and have cross-border activities. In this context, it is proper to note that there are already laws on written religions and principles of life and the laws on funds and organizations that operate according to an established organizational registry. The above enterprises are already registered on the basis of quoted legislation and information about them preserved in a separate category of enterprises file. So the bill does not go along with such associates. In line with the results of the government's risk assessment of money fraud and terrorist funding, it is emphasized that only the cross-border unions, i.e., fall below the set of values. Societys that are founded and operated in Iceland as well as have jobs abroad. For cross-border activities, there are not only funding transport between countries but also other functions of these international organisations where possible. the abuse of their situation. Money for the greater good plays an important role in our society and is vital to our well - being. Money to the public goods of various fields, ranging from being a small grass - based organization to being large communities that operate nationally and even beyond the cliffs. It is important to recognize the vital community role of those companions to the greater good that render service worldwide. With this bill, it is not intended to make it more difficult for these associates in the important work they do. Rather, it is the goal of the bill to ensure perspective and monitoring on the above members in order to protect them from misuse of money and funding terrorism in accordance with international requirements. It should be noted specifically that the action taken here is intended to reduce the risk that those organizations under the standards of the bill are abused for the funding of terrorism. Governments have also published educational material to the public community on good practices designed to enhance the understanding of the public good news of how they may be abused by terrorist funding and how to reduce the risk of abuse. Although the educational material specifically highlights instructions to reduce the potential abuse of public - welfare societies to the finance of terrorism, it is also used to reduce the risk of another type of economic abuse. The bill suggests that the budget that falls under its values will be registered in the public good partner list as the head of the head of the tax and that this will be part of a company file. The bill contains regulations for the establishment of a social club, the main material of the approved body, as well as the provision for socializing. Also in the bill, there are rules on what subjects should be considered for the main meeting and for the main meeting. The bill also contains regulations for the management of the social, its role, the recruitment of the Commission and its role as well as for the management and executives. The bill also contains provisions for the wearout and decommissioning of a social group. There is then a set of registrations in the P.I. registry, the details to be registered and the documents to be followed by an announcement of the registry. V.E.G. President. Here is an important bill aimed at ensuring that those enterprises that fall under the criteria of the bill are registered and for which certain minimum conditions of structure and demonstration are met. As mentioned earlier, the bill is responding to the international work group's comments on how to operate on the financial resources and funding of terrorism, which have made comments that the registration of the above members is not required in this country. The bill also responds to the results of state police risk assessment of money fraud and terrorist funding, as well as the government's secondary action programme. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. Economic and business committees for discussion and treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u3	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the presentation. True, we have had very little time to study this subject, so my questions may be rather superficial right now. I have a few, though, especially because of the speed of this matter. In my opinion, as far as I've read the bill, it's a burdensome influence on the activities of society. They are now obliged to register. Penalties are being imposed on certain activities, such as those involved. Participation at the main meetings and other such events is assigned to keep company records. First, I wondered: " What sort of consultation was made with this bill to a group on burdensome regulations for them? Which members are involved? I've heard a number of organizations this can cover, but I haven't heard any societies that these laws are going to cover. I wondered if a minister knows which of the companies these are. I haven't yet been clearly identified as to which societies of the bill are involved. I think it's a little important that we at the National Assembly know which communities will be affected by these laws before we set burdensome conditions for their operation. There's freedom of society in this country. Respect is very important. If we are going to impose restrictions, add calls, even allow certain activities within our partnerships to involve imprisonment - had been consulted by members of our society? What organization is involved? Were we examined as to whether this would last for our international commitment to respect our social freedom in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u4	Mr. President. It is true that this happened quickly and we take a short time here in the treatment of this case. For consultation with these companies: There was no consultation on this matter. But for the second time, I'm measuring a bill to legalize the community. In the context of that case, these and all other societies have been consulted, but it does not focus on the registration, the result of which the bill was that we did not make them registered. That was one of the findings of the times. Of the number of these partners: There are nearly 300 societies falling under this definition of more than 10,000 registered companions in the whole country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u5	Mr. President. I'm gonna let me put down a few questions. First, what kind of companies are these? I've heard some numbers, but that doesn't tell me anything about what societies we're talking about. V.E.G. A minister says that religions are excluded. Still, she claims that these include societies that use funding to have something to do with religion. What kind of societies are they? What cultural organizations that have crossborder activities will be affected by these laws? Why are we setting laws on organizations that we don't even know who are? What are these companies? The highest. One minister mentions some cases of organizations that will have to meet burdensome requirements because of the law? V.E.G. According to a minister, these communities were not consulted, and there the dog is buried. In the other law as supreme. There was no burdensome requirement for a minister. I just want to think that I think it's very important when we're talking about affecting people's rights and social freedom that it's clear on what basis they're being made, that they've communicated with the relevant parties, that we look at the moderate order in this context. Has it been done? Has the average rule been considered in the context of these laws? It is very clear in the opinion of the Venetian Committee, the United Nations, the Council of Europe, and all the international institutions who are concerned about rights, freedom of society, and society that they need to be moderate in caring for all the burdensome demands of society. What was that advice? What organization is involved? Why were these communities not consulted? Was the average rule arranged by the bill? Why on earth couldn't we see this before?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u6	For the first time, freedom of society is, of course, a state free society in Iceland. Of course, it comes with the fact that while people have the authority to establish various associates, governments have the authority to set limits and conditions for them. That's what they're doing here. Yes, moderate behavior is being taken into account, and this was looked especially forward to the processing of the bill. I mention that there are nearly 300 organizations that fit in with this definition. I can't give you any specific examples of these companies, but the case goes with the Economic and Business Committee later today. There are the committees who can answer these questions. I expect answers will be presented at that committee meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u7	Mr. President. Just a few words on this matter and the case as high as possible. Minister of Justice spoke earlier. Of course, during our restoration, we will not be able to prevent these cases from being granted, but there are still some things to be enlightened, including the following: The treatment. After listening to both ministers and their answers, I'm still in the dark as to why this is so soon. It is as if the Icelandic government is not ready to take responsibility in international cooperation, being alert to the duties we have to take care of in large and small matters. It is becoming a bit characteristic of this government to be always in neutral gear, is not ready or does not take the initiative. We need to take responsibility in international cooperation and fulfill our responsibilities, just in order to provide people with whom the matter can touch, in this case free members of the community, the opportunity to make objections, tips, cooperate with those involved. There are things to think about. This trial is entirely the responsibility of the government classes. Does this mean that we will be prevented? No, as I said before, we won't do it. There's some kind of interest in which I don't want the government's clumsiness spoiling so that they'll be in international context. This is a thought - provoking point. Once again, there's a case from the government that isn't well worked. We at the government stand will not abandon our position, but once again, the government is held solely on the brink of running for a flag and saving the government for a corner. All right, we have rich interests here. We'll go over this very carefully. I trust this will be done to the officers of the committees who are standing at the door in line and waiting for the matter to come. I'm counting on them to be careful with the tips they've been given, including of Pirata's senator. But this is a lot to think about. The season isn't half over, Mr. President, and I hope we don't have to experience again and again for the rest of our terms such a business on the part of the government. We will make sure that the council can do this as well as possible at the short time we have.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u8	Mr. President. Even though I know what to do. A senator likes to use every opportunity to talk about the clumsiness of the government that comes up after a case, and I wanted to come up here to protest it. Therefore, it is not available to distribute. We received a report from FAFF in 2018 where there was a 51 fault in the management and implementation of measures to save money and to finance terrorism. This, of course, is serious. There is a scathing of a specific project in the preceding years. However, being specifically asked about this matter, the leading of it, and why it comes so late inside, it was not called for to change this legislation in the context of what we are bringing now. It wasn't like that. In the late September, U.S.A., an expert group of FAAF responsible for follow-up came up with a report. It's only been a few days since the end of September. That explains why this is coming in right now. Of course, we've been working very hard since 2018 in the lines that were pointed out, and we think that we're completing it completely. It's important to end this situation in this context. But these suggestions did not come until about two weeks ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u9	Mr. President. I must say that this answer to the minister further convinced me that the government was not ready. 2018 will be in the report. It is now telling us the heads of the classes and the leaders of them, that this must be accelerated against the consequences of failure to respond to them. It doesn't match sound to image. Is the minister and the government telling me that they did not realize that they needed to be prepared to respond to the report, and what could be the result? The consequences of what the Ministers have said can be very serious. Then why wasn't the Ministry ready? Why wasn't the Ministers in Iceland's government ready? That's what I think about. I understand the highest. A minister who is very careful in all his tactics. I can pretty much believe that a minister is even a little frustrated about how things are going, trying to defend them. There's something wrong with the system if there's no light on the fact that unless there are certain changes approved, there could be serious consequences. Then there's something wrong with us. I'd like to clean it up, and I'd like to encourage the highest. A government to take a closer look at how things are done at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u10	Mr. President. Just to reiterate it, the bill I'm here is not measuring for a bit of a list in the 2018 report. We couldn't be ready for something we didn't know about them. We came up at the end of September, just days ago. That's why we're reacting now, and of course I thank you. A senator for his intention of working with us. Yes, at times it can be annoying when things are in this place. But there is also a general question about the work force, not only on our side but also on our side, that there has been a 2018 report that did not appear as a fault since a few days ago was considered important. Of course, we will respond in the light of the underlying interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u11	Mr. President. It is thought - provoking and must be made clear by the government to those who make the report that if we are being asked for things that were not contained in the report, it is only unfair that we do not have more time than this. I trust the Icelandic government will maintain a defense for Iceland. It remains that there is trouble with government practices. That's probably what it's like when you want to be nice. It's only a matter of course. This is yet another example of what I am stressing, the government is not - as has often been - just to be opposed. This is to do a good job for everyone, and if that means we have to help the government with another thing, we just do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u12	Mr. President. I could actually say back much of my speech. A churchwoman of the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir. Of course, the union will not, in itself, push so hard that these matters cannot be completed because we officers have been told that there is a lot at stake. That doesn't make it impossible. Perhaps the government has begun to assume that the government's opposition will always come and settle matters, help, and help when the political parties are in trouble. It's enough to mention the pregnancy crisis, the energy pack case. But that's not how it works. We cannot find ourselves in a hurry to settle matters - for they will be few who need to be handled - without knowing more about what they are mountained and why this hurry is taking place. 2018 comes this report from FAFF with 58 indications and a little work done on it. This does not mean that there are any issues and some actions. I would have been more honest if the government, written in his government covenant, said that there should be a change in practice at the council and more consultation with the smaller section, had just contacted us right away and asked: "How can we, in the next days or weeks, begin to blow this thing off together? Instead of putting this in our faces one to two days before it needs to be taken care of. Although I'd like to, I can't agree with it. A churchwoman Þorgerður Katrín Gunnarsdóttir says it's a bit of a clumbish here. I'd much rather call this a procrastination. The government is under severe circumstances that were long - anticipated. There is the Mosaic Law, which surprised everyone, although it was now a 50% probability of how falling and perhaps even more likely to fall on the path that took place had been heard by scholars. I can name WOW. When that airline broke down, everyone in the board was a little surprised. We can name the Guðmunds and Geirfjörður and the reaction to it and how it is tried to unwind it now with a bill that, if necessary, should occur a year ago but appears to be some kind of expedition to arrive at the highest level. The prime minister from an trouble she could find by not reading the letter of a state lawyer. It seems to me that the government is inextricably inexhaustible. But so it is repeated: If the consequences are, if they get, or can become as serious as we were told, if we do not finish, it would be highly irresponsible to get too firm in order to resist them. Let us, then, try to learn a lesson from this. It's not supposed to happen again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u13	A respectable president. I'd like to come into the middle line I spoke about earlier in return to the highest degree. Minister, Þórdís Kol Kolbrún Reykfjörð Gylfadóttir. I'd like to talk to you about your social freedom and consultation. With these laws, a minister is now authorized to sue and have a partner torn if specific requirements are met. In other words, it is suggested that a ministerial servant be able to administer it before court, and that social activity be stopped if there is a possibility of a community violating certain regulations. I think it's rather burdensome. 13th. The bill, by permission of the President, is: ▪ The requirement of a cabinet minister is to sue the prosecution and the courts, the district attorney or members of the locality may be held at the Homeland Guard's Committee by court if the body has a significant violation of law or a defined purpose according to its approval. According to this law, the minister now receives an assessment of whether a union operates according to its own agreement. Now members can be called to account for not being entitled to votes at the world headquarters meeting. All of this is very burdensome, possibly for good reason. It may even allow us to set these rules entirely, but it is unacceptable that our society has not yet been consulted, not yet knowing that we know, and that a minister is not ready to share with us any unions that are to be treated with these burdensome requirements. And that we're supposed to do this bill, which has such a burdensome intervention into the country's social freedoms over a period of 24 hours at the council, is a complete scandal. This is ridiculous. I understand that the consequences are that financial societies are going to have some problem with their business interests. I wonder, though, if we don't have to go at least ... with a very thorough assessment of whether the rights of the city will not outweigh each other's commercial interests and the head of the citizens' rights. Do they not deserve some mention? There are now various recommendations from the Venetian Committee, the Council of Ministers of the European Council, and the European Court of Human Rights. We are members of a number of international treaties that predict freedom of society and its protection. We know that, throughout Europe, laws are being passed that have the sole purpose of destroying a government - inspired organization. Terrorism laws are used to do so. Because authorities who do not appreciate their activity do not accuse them of financing terrorism, they are closing organizations around Europe. This is where we set these laws 24 hours. How is it expected that the Council will raise the same important question as how we best protect our social freedom in Iceland - a day? I'm asking because I find this unacceptable, Mr. President. The chapter on whether the bill harmonizes with our international commitments does not mention all the instructions we have from, for example. The Venetian Committee, the Council of Ministers and the United Nations on Protecting Society Associations, on the right of all of us to be members of a community organization, and on the need for all the intervention of community freedom, must be based on laws that have legitimate goals and that the moderate order is under control. I can't see how the average rule is put first if these societies are first not specified. How, then, should they realize that they belong there if we don't even know when the bill is submitted? They are not consulted, and these requirements are not even checked because the recommendations from the European Council, the United Nations, and OECD will not be available in any void. They occur because such laws are being misused precisely to close and destroy the activities of a society that is in the eyes of the government. I don't think it's acceptable, Mr. President, that we accept such legislation without having the council given more than 24 hours to determine if it's too burdensome and whether they're entitled to do so without us even confirming that we must complete it in this day. I don't think it's very good, and I think the bill should have been done much sooner. I don't think we've had a satisfying explanation for why it didn't come first. As far as I know, the FAFF follow-up report came on September 5th. It's been a month since, and we'll first see this bill today. It is not possible, Mr. President, to impose such burdensome rules about freedom of society in such a short time. I can't accept that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u14	Mr. President. In the main policy of Pirata, informed decision-making is required and decisions should not be made without the presence of data and analysis. I think this case is a textbook example of how not to go to work. I have the bill and the report in front of me. I'm quite aware that there is a need to have quick hands. Why don't I know? The bill and the report, as well as the discussions with the Economic and Business Committee members, have not quite answered the questions that arise and there are a lot of them. That's why I think it's irresponsible to pass the case through. Generalis case therapy is, in fact, the only tool we have in our hands to ensure careful court treatment and that all information is available before making a decision. I wanted to know what comment 51 from FAFF is responding on this bill right away. I still haven't got to know what the comment was and just wait for it. I would like to know what the consequences would be if this issue did not interfere with the time we have and what it would mean for an Icelandic community. It is not defined as what companies for the public good are in the bill or in the report. Also, it is not defined exactly what is involved in crossborder activities. As noted above, the identity of societies is thus not completely clear. If we were to know exactly what was being discussed, it may well be that all of this is very natural and would be allowed to pass through, but we do not have time to gather information to make that decision. I'd like to point out one thing that comes out here and is just a paradox. In 1st. The bill is specified that these legislation on enterprises for the public goods established or operating are in order to collect or distribute money in the public sector. However, the report that follows the bill specifically shows that the main reason for looking at these associates is that there are cases within the FAFF countries that companies with economic purposes have been abused, particularly in the face of terrorism. So I ask myself when it comes to the legal explanation whether these are societies for the public good that have been directly established for financial purposes to collect or distribute capitals or not because this is just a conflict. I take, for example, because it's burdensome and it's registration, that I don't have it clearly whether a large - scale international organization of anonymous people has no partnerships and will never have, will fall under this law book or not. If they did, they would violate very many of the bill's articles and it would be self-limited. There would be a surge in the health system of the FAF Member States, which would be very difficult to deal with. The bill states that the management board has a list of members. I would have thought that if the occasion is money, it would be rather a reason to keep a list of contributions to the public goods or even the contributions that have been raised. This logout is already present. Every social security number is in the current state taxpayer's office. We're here to give a warning about any additional registration. That's normal. These are my main questions. Despite the question, I may have very clear answers, and I have not received them. It can be more than well, I'll say nothing about it. But I would like to receive those answers and that information. It is part of the fine work done by me as an elected representative in this synagogue. I would feel disappointed if I did not ask questions and did not demand that this information compromise before making the decision. It's very bad not to know exactly who's being in the mountain, what comments are being made, what the consequences would be for society if we didn't stay on the bill at the time given, so I find it all very strange. These are the key questions I wanted to know.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u15	President. I have to point out that the subject that is next to the program is completely unacceptable. It suggests that the legislation of the legislature authority will enter courts so incorruption, even in cases already before courts. V.E.G. The prime minister took this matter into his arms but immediately after the Supreme Court. Thus, a minister was in trouble, and it was thrown into the council. Based on how this is arranged, there is a likely demand for the Council to investigate and what was fundamental to the decision of the council. As a result, I feel that this case does not belong here. Rather, it is to be done as normal as it is before the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u16	Mr. President. I would recommend a bill to legalize a case on the case of the Supreme Court on case No. 512/2017. Because of the words that fell before you, prepared for the President's conference board, I must say that it is not unusual to say that the Council is involved in this matter in the presence of the General of the Council at its earlier stage, including the U.S.A. to allow the hearing of the matter, as I will further come to the future in my story. Also, we have an example that the Council took part in the payment of special improvements so that I could not accept the procedure at hand. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson was en route to the President's conference board. The bill for which I recommend islittled and is only three branches, but it takes on a large extract. There's a political advantage in the case of the Guðmunds and the Geitarian case. The government has already asked the former defendants, their victims, and others who have suffered pain because of the situation apologized for the injustices they have suffered. The main focus on the matter is that the financial issue and that it is guaranteed that individuals will receive financial benefits, although it is clear that money will never improve the damage caused by the unjust judgment caused by the innocent and their families. More than a year ago, the court of justification was a long one. Some defendants and their victims fought a great battle for their good, both in the field of courts and for the common people. Rearing was denied by Supreme Court, and it was evident that the court's way alone would not be to deal with the defendant's comments to the treatment they accepted from the legal system. On October 7, 2011, Ögmundur Jónasson, then Minister of the Interior, ordered a special group of workmen who were assigned to review the entire Germund and Geirður case. He had then accepted a challenge, signed by nearly 1,200 individuals, in which the study and re - testing of the Gudmund and the Geronian language were required. The service group, led by Arndís Soffía Sigurðardóttir, was assigned to examine particularly the factors involved in the investigation and implementation of the matter. The report of this work group is very extensive, but the group was included. to the conclusion that the investigation had been made in various flaws and that the guilt of the defendants had been too focused on. At the same time, a thorough psychological evaluation of the authenticity of the case was performed. The psychological evaluation revealed that it was above all reasonable that testimony, including confession, would have been false or unreliable. The results of the work group were clear and included a sentence against the legal system. At that time, two tolerances from the Guðmunds and the Gergents were dead and realized that, according to the current law, their members could not get their rights. The General then stepped in, as I directed earlier. In 2014, members of the General Commission and Commission Commission submitted a bill that became legalized that same year. They passed the law on the right to ask for another case. In 2017, a resurgence committee agreed to authorize justice against five defendants, except for Erla Bolladóttir's daughter, who was convicted of false charges. There was also the request of other defendants who were falsely accused. Last September 27th, the Supreme Court brought up a legal justice in the case of all five of the defendants. It was of particular interest in this matter that both defenders and accusers demanded acquiescation of the case. The system of justice thus passed on to the failings of public authority decades earlier. As a result of a government hearing this issue was discussed, on behalf of the government, I offered an apology to the defendants, victims, and others who have been severely bound by the case. A covenant commission was set up that would lead to discussions and reconciliations with those who were declared righteous and those who lived by them. The Commission found the case, including the entrance of a state attorney. Then I had a meeting with those who wished for it during that period, i.e. the people they wanted. During the spring season, the government believed that peace was in place for most people, and the preparations included: Pronunciation of the bill on that basis. It didn't work out, and now it's at least One party appealed to the city of Reykjavík, and others also announced a lawsuit. The nature of a case says that other participants do not consider it an advantage to negotiate with the government for payment when it is handled, and if it is a wish, the case must be passed on to the court. Nevertheless, I feel that it is important for the government and the Council to negotiate a form of penance, which will be held outside courts, with the exception of the legal language that prevails in the face of judges. By this bill, if legal action, the minister is granted permission to pay the penitent improvements and is removed from the custom that an agreement on compensation will be made only under the condition that it includes complete compensation, i.e. to give up the right to court. When, for that reason, it is right for the Council to discuss the case and to be legalized by the bill, it is not necessary to wait for the conclusion of a court that may take a long time. Furthermore, the bill allows for payment to be given to those who are dead on the basis of the same standard as those who are alive. Thus, it is taken out of all doubt as to the will of the government and of the General to compensate for the unjust treatment of public authority that has been exposed and established. It is recommended that tax freedom be improved, but it also stated that in the event of a judicial hearing, compensation will be paid from a possible financial level. However, if a damage to the court is less than an improvement on the basis of this bill, the sum of the latter will be paid in no way. One report with the bill shows that the amount of money already discussed with parties earlier this year will be looked at, on the average, some 700,700,800 million. K., which is a list of something exactly in the report, both the evidence for it and the way it was intended to be divided. Patches will include: Depending on the length of freedom change, it is also stated that there is room to consider individual circumstances. These amounts may then take some changes as they progress into conversation, while the contributions of this bill at the General Assembly can be accepted. Mr. President. The bill is based on the work of the Conspiracy Committee in the past winter, and it presents strong moral reasons for the State to shoulder responsibility. It is suggested that subsidies are not based solely on a narrow interpretation of laws, although money has been taken into account in some respects by court decisions and by the length of ablation of freedom. The idea is behind the fact that the State should compensate for the harm done to its members, that is, fair and just. There is a need for payment regardless of the outcome of a judicial case. A paper with the bill will then tap on a large subject regarding the indiscriminate treatment provided by the other acquiesced to be seated and the duration of isolation and custody. According to a state lawyer, there will not be a hearing and a judicial resolution in the case that has now been appealed until the following year. It is known that the State has asked for a righteous standing, including a righteous one. due to the expiry of the pen, but the same is done to offer extra payment than clearly required by law. I think it's unfortunate that the matter has gone into this legal course that seems to be the nature of a matter, according to the harshness of those who look outside the case, although it may have been viewed as traditional when the government acts against it. Therefore, I believe it is important that the bill presented here be conducted, that the government and the Council recognize the obligation to compensate for the violations that the defendants suffered financially. If this bill is legal, it will, of course, affect state attorney case, but I reviewed its subject at a meeting with him last week. It showed that he would turn his approach into a lawsuit in view of today's bill. It is clear, therefore, that the presentation will be based on the change in cause from the previous month's report. However, I would like to make clear the importance of discussing justice in this matter that will not be limited to the sums of money from public funds. The question must be taken when we discuss such matters, how should social refinements be achieved when it comes to the fact that there has been a serious failure in the treatment of public power, and there is a wide variety of such refinements. There, councils, courts, and governments are involved, as well as the media, the free community, and the university community. It requires self-involvement. The justice system needs to take a look at itself and answer what has happened and how it is guaranteed that such things will not happen again. Public rights must always be our basic obligation, that should always be our priority. It is important that those who exercise official authority in that area think well of this matter and learn from it. The politics also need to take a look at themselves. It was not until 2011 that a review of this matter was made after decades of struggle between many of the involved and some of them walked. It took time. As a community, we need to peer inside and wonder how anything like this could happen and how we will make such a mistake so fast that it will never happen again. In view of the matter, it is clear that the fate of these individuals could actually have been the destiny of each one of us. But it is hard to plan to complete such an arrangement on a single board. As the developments progress, new aspects of the matter need to be addressed. The light of all such work must be honesty, fairness, humility, and respect for individuals who have failed but at the same time learn from past's lessons for the future, perhaps the most important thing to make sure that the mistakes are not repeated and that the improvement is thus up to the future. Mr. President. This bill, if it becomes law, is the course of a long journey. It is my hope that the Council will bring about this success. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill go to what? General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u17	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for her review of this bill that I have to admit that I really don't understand anything in, either before I saw the bill or after I've worn it, simply because it appears in four or five places on the bill, I think this law is necessary to cover the benefits, to accept the benefits, and because of the particular status of the case. Last September, in the court of the Supreme Court, the individuals who could sit behind a lock and strike were declared righteous for their reasons. One might wonder, " Is it not enough to look to the criminal treatment of criminal cases that discuss an individual who has been convicted and has been punished? ' It makes it clear that the person is entitled to do the right thing. The same law also makes it clear that the State is to be replaced, subject to the prosecution, and responsible for unjust judgments. One might ask, " Why is this matter being presented? ' Why is it pretended to be necessary to legalize? I can't figure it out at all, and I'm asking for an answer from the highest level. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u18	Mr. President. The main reason for this is that my legal advisers believe that it is important that everyone's legal standing is equally loyal, both to those who are still alive and to those who have died. It was thought that this would be the best thing to do by means of a special release to cover not only those who were still alive but also to the others, i.e. The members of those who had died, so it would not be the general budget of the state's funds to provide compensation, as in usual matters, but would be assured that the position of these parties would be equal. That is why the case appears in the form of a legal bill and the application of only the official law on criminal matters was not considered sufficient.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u19	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. I have to be quick in the second round. It can be understood, then, that it is the government's will to pay the descendants and to pay any special compensation beyond that given to the judges, i.e. Special improvements because they too are the victims of the situation, children being judged at home, and the like? I can't see in the bill that there's a special compensation for the offspring and the whole family. I would have thought this was only due to the position of the judges. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Prime Minister in the position of Bolladóttir Bolladótttir. There is no mention of her in this, but she was forced to report what she did. There is no doubt about it, she had a baby in her home, and she was afraid to return to prison if she did not report what she did. I'm asking if it's never been considered to apply to her as well. Finally, I'd like to ask if there's a possibility, at best. Prime Minister, to cancel the acquisitive requirement laid out on behalf of prime minister in a state - of - law paper as well as on the reasons for a court of justice. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u20	Mr. President. What I explained in the previous answer, and in fact, in my case, it has been said that we have felt that it is necessary for the Council to bring about the matter in order to ensure the proper attention of those who have died, i.e. that they are, in effect, the same in terms of government recovery as the rest who are still alive. That is one of the basic reasons for making this bill. Hv. A senator asked about Bolladóttir Bolladótttir. It is true that these reforms take into account the court of the Supreme Court since last year's trial of about five people. Erla Bolladóttir wasn't there. I studied it in a talk that wasn't. So the bill applies only to five parties, i.e. the three left alive and the victims of the two dead.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u21	A respectable president. A minister is allowed to pay compensation, and in the section Assessment of the effect is spoken of at the end of the century, at the end of this series, some 700,700,800 million are spoken of. At least, but that amount may change. Then there is a chapter entitled Compatibility to the Constitution, but to 41 st. The Constitution states that no fee can be paid unless it is authorized for financial or financial contributions. I wondered if we're talking about money or money loans about this bill. I also wondered, " Why aren't we talking about a fixed amount? I guess we're not about to start writing on an unpublished check. ' My question is, in fact, simple, from my point of view as a trustee: Are these financial or financial funds? And where is the amount to match the covered article of the constitution?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u22	Mr. President. This is a warrant for reform, and it is taken into account in a report on which the case was held. It would have been preferable that the sum of 759 million in spring could have been fixed when we thought that the premise had been created to obtain such a warrant, but it wasn't. That would have been the preferred thing, but of course the State often pays compensation without knowing exactly what it will be. This may not be totally available, but it is usually taken from the government's reserves and does not reveal financial or financial benefits. I've discussed this with the Ministry of Economics, and I haven't been able to determine whether it's going to be there to take it out of a reserve fund or some financial aid.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u23	A respectable president. That's exactly the second part of my inquiry. As a result, compensation is paid on the basis of financiers that join them in plus and minus on the functioning of the official financial legislation. If there are large compensations, as it has been in the past, the budget just goes under a minus or is paid from a reserve, and it doesn't need a special bill to do that. Last year, that amount was 5 billion, but the sentence on the decline in pension was falling. This amount is much higher, and a special bill was not put forth to pay it. I don't quite understand why we're talking about this bill after all. The ensuing laws are beyond the reach of this and if it is to achieve rights for the rights of the offspring, then certain laws provide increased rights, which can be done completely.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u24	Mr. President. Yes, but that's what it is, a specific law. That's the thought behind the matter, as I went over earlier. The main reason for making contributions to the bill is to make sure that all parties, the five, the dead and the living, are equal with this agreement of the state. That was the assessment of the reconciliation committee, the evaluation of a state lawyer, and the evaluation of the legal advisers I sought for that matter by the General Assembly. I hear members of the council have doubts about it, but lawyers have come to the case, and I have listened to what they say. It's a matter of equalizing this position.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u25	V.E.G. President. I'm partly at the same place as what. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir. I wondered about the purpose of this bill. Article 3 of the series entitled "Subjects and the Need for Corrections, " states: (b) What will be considered in the next article? ▪ TV is now proposed to make clear the willingness of governments and Generals to pay the righteous and their fair compensations. V.E.G. The prime minister answered earlier and pointed out that this bill may be necessary for candidates to be compensated. The current legalization is probably not good enough to ensure compensation. I can understand them on the bill if that was the case. True, the attorney has, at least. One lawyer, if not more, these defendants or acquiesceds say that it doesn't need anything. The current damage laws would be quite successful. All right. But the question is, if we're giving a special bill right now to make sure that the next couple are getting reformed, I'm thinking about the example in that. If others are unjustly deprived of their freedom, does that mean that each time we give a bill to ensure that their citizens also make benefits? True, I think we're way ahead of ourselves. I'm gonna give a long talk about all this later. I can't get it here. But I ask, Is it not the most natural thing to trust in courts to complete this matter, no matter how special?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u26	Mr. President. It would have been one way, when the Supreme Court's judgment fell, that governments had simply told people to go to court for their rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u27	... done before.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u28	It was not the decision of the government and not the reconciliation committee, who also considered other matters in their work and tried to work well and honestly on this matter while eating. She also felt that it was important for the dead to be treated with a measure of respect by equalizing these matters, the living and the dead, thus ensuring compensation. About example, I hope this case never repeats. I hope we're in that place and we're in Iceland where we won't say that. I'm not particularly worried about an example here. I'm going to trust that the government in Iceland is getting stronger now than when this case came up and we're not about to create a problem in the legal state right now, the future government, to repair people's damage to their freedom, not just for days, but for years. Taking people over for years in their lives is nothing small. However, this was the counseling and the evaluation of my people, that it was very important that the General would match the position of the deceased and the living in the case that was unprecedented and that was relevant in this way. This also shows the firm desire of the government to accept their obligations because of the injustices committed here decades ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u29	V.E.G. President. I can honestly say that it will certainly be very long before we find a similar case in ourselves, but not very long before we find out that people have been unjustly deprived of freedom and that someone who has been condemned before will be declared righteous. I'm sure it won't be far. I wonder because it's a very special matter. This refers to improvements far beyond anything known in Icelandic history, even in those with 100% compensation and 100% lasting disability. We have come far beyond that. So this is a very special way, to take this actual case out of courts too, as has been done with all this case since 2011. I'm just not there, you know. Prime Minister, and I am deeply concerned about this trend and the example this might set later.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u30	Mr. President. I generally agree with what. Senator on this. It is not unusual to ask the question he makes regarding the separation of legal authority and the judicial authority. This case would not have been brought to the place where it is now, and went before the courts, except for the coming of the Council, in his own season, as it were. A senator knows very well since 2014 when the Council authorized the exact reuptake. There were undoubtedly some who asked the same question: Is the Council not discussing matters in a very unnatural way, allowing the hearing of the dead to be repeated? But that was the decision of the Council. It was decided in its own time, and it is part of our having the case here because we are still looking at the same kind of thing. We can have a view of whether this is to be a general example. I say, this does not have to be a general precedent, because of the particular growth of this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u31	Mr. President. This is an interesting bill we've received, a bill to legalize the court case. The name of the bill attracts my attention alone. As you look at the three articles there, every article in the bill gives me special attention. First of all, a minister is being authorized to pay compensation following the Supreme Court's trial. We have a federal lawyer and he's going to take out the cashiers that are offered to the state, and he's doing so under the law of state law. With the bill, it appears that there is going to be a complete disarmament of the state law and that a minister of his own will - I suppose the chief minister is the manager. Prime Minister - paying compensation on this matter, not hiding it from a state lawyer, as in any other matter involving reform requirements of the State. It was shown in a case of the highest order. Prime Minister earlier that the purpose of the law was to ensure improvements in the situation. Two. 1st par. It is said that compensation should be paid to the righteous who are alive and on the same basis to a surviving mate. Then the bill shows that not only are those who are on the front line but those who were declared righteous are being taken, not only are they being made up of frames. Now there's a legal warrant, so I'd like to say it's really unnecessary. I was in opposition to whether it was an independent reform right for the people of the state's own mismanagement, whether the government is going to create whether or not the government is going to inherit both benefits for those who were illegally free to freedom, so to speak, or have at least one. They were acquitted, as well as benefits, because of the mistakes the family had to face as long as the individuals remained free. You're wondering what the government's been thinking about. The government has previously offered legal advice that has not been particularly helpful to her. That's where I'd like to remind you of the National Court case. At that time, one minister appeared amazed at the conclusion of all the cases, at every court level, whether the case was local, Supreme Court, or European Court of Human Rights, and appeared to have talked to a number of scholars who were in some way disagreed with the scholars mentioned here; but a lesser part was on the issue to be exactly what it was all about. You wonder only about the legal advice the government is constantly looking for. Then there is the example. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son pointed out. Let us hope that similar matters, similar horrors, and we watch with the Guðmundur and Geir fiscal case, where people have been deprived of freedom days, weeks, and years, that they will not return. But not long ago, because of a deportation that did not seem to be available, the government was reformed. And what about those who have received such compensation? Where is the example? Can they go to judicial hearings and make compensations, or is this just a matter of compensation that someone will receive because the person having the right to pay is dead? This doesn't seem clear to me in the bill, and we need to be careful with the Three Laws. It'll wake up 3rd. That bill, of course, is my attention. It reads, with President's permission: ▪ This law already returns to value but its secretary's warrant. 1st Article 5 - for payment - on June 30, 2020 What happens then? Let us see that in this bill it is said that this will not prevent people from seeking their rights before the court. I can promise you the highest. Prime Minister, for if anyone is going to appeal to a case today, it will be far from June 30, 2020. Then why are we giving it to the highest? Prime Minister of this warrant? I can't figure it out. First of all, I don't understand why this bill is being passed; we have this authority in the law. Second of all, I don't know why it's the highest. A prime minister decides to step in front of a state lawyer instead of letting a state lawyer do his work unless this includes complete distrust of a state lawyer, who will still have to compromise when he sees this. Third, I think it's strange to have this presumptuous crisis of time, since the case is about to be treated here at the council, and it's probably over by Christmas. So? Well, then it's got the highest. The prime minister six months to complete all judicial matters if people choose to go to court. It is much shorter than it has been since the conviction of the Supreme Court last year, and we haven't moved forward. I don't see why it's relevant to the CIA at an earlier stage. That's because of other things. Payback is just another matter. If the highest. The prime minister is expected to arrange for members of the council to go to the bank with money, to evaluate who offers the highest benefits, to consider sitting by on that road. I do not want to participate in such a political banquet at the highest level. Prime Minister. It's just bad taste in this case, we're not going to that plan. It's such a case that it's not supposed to be bound to party politics, it's much bigger than that. If we have any way of inviting them - I'm not involved. I'd like to end the story with Erla Bolladóttir. This, of course, was a shock when it was not accepted that her case would be repeated. Let's review the story of Erla Bolladóttir, who had just had a baby when she was picked up by the law and kept in the Sömul prison. Since then, we have been told different kinds of things that were wronged. She had certainly become free, i.e. was no longer locked up in Sömula Prison, but she remained with her baby, a infant, a infant, every time the police came to her home to be traced out of her intestines. All the time, every time it happens, it has the threat of being separated from the infant again. I think it would be good for all of us to understand this situation only. It is not right to pretend that she was a free woman when she points out others she was pointing out, that there may have been others who did something to get involved. I mean, she wasn't herself at that time, and many others agree with that. Everyone who ever tried to have a baby in your arms knows that if you are in danger of losing your baby and being locked up, as she had before, you are vulnerable. I don't think there's one word to it that sucks. If it is the intention of the government to meet its demands, to have a conversation with her, I would be more inclined to say something about it here or at least Another matter of Congress is or is a matter taken into consideration. I don't think it's particularly tasteful, I don't think so. They're thinking of family members and children, parents, and spouses, but nothing is left of this woman who was locked up and violated. I just don't think it's that smart, you forgive me. I think we're just gonna have to do better, Mr. President. I believe there's some huge misinformation going on here. There's a duty, it's under the law on criminal treatment, damage laws, state law. It's all there, more or less. I don't know why we're fucking with this case. I can't figure it out, and the bill piece doesn't explain anything. It does not really support what was said in the case of the highest degree. Prime Minister earlier, she won't. I think we need to be more careful.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u32	A respectable president. I have to admit that I've had a little trouble with this case since I first heard it and it didn't get better with reading it. On the one hand, these comments are as reason. The members of the council of Helga Vala, the daughter of Helgadóttir, and Bristur the Brynjar of Níelsson, mentioned, i.e. The context, if I don't overphrase, with the way things are going to work by law already. I try to avoid going into the subject of the Guðmunds and the Geimsic Table. The night would not last for us to discuss it, even though there were many, since it is a very important and horrible matter. When it comes to this one question of improvement to the victims of the system, as I would like to call the defendants and their victims, I feel that there is something missing the key point in the whole discussion that is not just what the victims, as I call them, deserve to be paid for, but what has happened to the doer, the Icelandic State, the police, the prosecutor, the pressmen, members, ministers, voters, Iceland, the local states, the Republic of Iceland itself. That this was allowed to happen at the time is shocking enough. The way the community or much of it, in here and outside, reacted to it, is potentially more scandalous. Grief things happen every day, but you hope that when they get up, civilized communities stand up and react correctly, stop the war, find the person responsible for it, and hold it responsible. I know, and I respect the highest. Prime Minister wants the matter well, and I have no reason to believe otherwise. The report brings it along, and so does I, the debate at the Hall of Congress, both from the highest level. Ministers and others who have spoken. But in my opinion, it's not just about victims. It's about the state of justice and what happened to our country of Iceland at the time and how the state of justice reacted in some way that could be described as reasonable or complete. So I'd like to consider a very fine controversial matter that is closely related to this rather than that I think it would be better. Although the question of compensation to the victims and victims themselves is important, another question, in my opinion, is the most important. That's exactly what a council proposal is. paritaprevir Vala Helgadóttir and the United States to investigate how power was exercised in these matters. It's like a suggestion you read once and wonder: " Is it not long ago? Is it not a long time ago? A respectable president. In studying this matter over the years, I simply have not felt that there has been any bottom of it. There's a bottom line, I think among the majority, that certainly the victims were innocent. I think it's basically undisputed today that there was torture. If we look at Guantanamo Bay and all that stuff, we call it torture, why shouldn't we call it torture? What exactly is the difference? Isolation for months and more, drinking water directly, these are tortures, a respectable president, who took place in the legal state and the Republic of Iceland. I still don't feel that I've made it clear enough to have the so - called official story that the Republic of Iceland stood on its feet, even though only in 2019 or 2020, and was completely investigated in a way that needs to be studied and found out about this other obvious conclusion. That's what I want to see happen. I'm not minimizing the importance of the victims getting benefits for their treatments. I just feel like we can't forget that there was a person there and he was Iceland, Iceland. I'm gonna do it, Mr. Honorable President. I wanted to get this over with 1st. I sincerely hope that the lesson of the Guðmundur and Geirfjörn will not be in the future, that according to the so-called official history of Iceland, it can just happen, and yes, the victims will be compensated, but the doer himself will escape. It's a lesson I don't want to learn and hope I don't have to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u33	V.E.G. President. There are times when I can say the word. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir. True, that doesn't happen often, and there was actually just one sentence in her speech that I could agree with. [[Take it up to one.]] Yes, from a long talk, it was just one sentence. I think very much about the purpose of this bill, and when you read it, the main purpose seems to be to demonstrate the will of the government and the Lawgiver to pay the righteous and their managers a fair compensation. I think about it because I've observed a great deal of what some of the attorneys have been talking about. These words show that they do not consider this bill to be necessary. They have considered, one of them officially said, that existing legislation is taking over their rights and those of the people as it is today. In view of this, it's very difficult for me to understand. I personally believe this case is a very dangerous precedent. I remember that time, because I am now older than most people here in the hall, probably older than anyone but a whale. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, that when those who had been falsely accused in this case received benefits, from those we are going to pay compensation now, the reaction of the government was in that the matter was truly unique, and it would not be right for politicians, governments, or politicians to make a decision of these improvements. There was a particular argument with the then financial minister, who reminds me that was Matthías Á. Mathiesen, and all those matters ended in court. I think it's right for the courts to decide. Then I am not speaking of it, since the matter is come into this place, and was made this way, that the courts will determine this, though we acknowledge an obligation to do it. Here is the requirement for an improvement far beyond what has never been known. I can point out that if an 18 - year - old is exposed to an attack or accident and becomes paralyzed from his neck, disabled throughout his life, i.e. 100% permanent disability, 100% error, could at best have the hope of having some 70 million. Even here there are some 200 million to 300 million for the individual parties of this matter. I think we've come far beyond the limits of the power we take, the authority that I feel belongs to in the courts. In fact, all of this has been taken from the courts. It was a political decision at the time to create a reorganization committee. A reunion committee is a government in that sense, and it decides to take up this matter. Then a special district attorney is appointed to handle the case, and he then demands acquiesc, making it possible for the court to conclude with that decision and not be able to take sides with the accused. It's all taken from the court that belongs to the courts, and I make a special comment to such a court treatment over my head, and it feels abnormal. When you consider the results of a hearing committee, it is in such a way that it feels that the presentation of these parties in which confession is made is unreliable. I find it remarkable that almost half a century later, 45 years later, men come here, saying that judges who listened to the controversial confessions and compared them with other evidence have not been right, and then a administrative committee comes and decides something else. It's a complete case, and it's definitely nowhere in the courts, because we're talking about the state of justice here, as a matter of course. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson believed that he failed because we politicians believe it. It's completely different, and I'm looking at all this therapy that's going to come to the court in the country, whatever we might think of it. It is not always that one agrees with a court decision, but it is absurd that politicians are generally on the way of saying something about them, choosing to accept a case, and deciding to demand acquit and to come and decide to pay compensation beyond all the legal requirements and to be expected to do so. This trial is a complete scandal. It's not that I always agree with courts. Sometimes I don't feel comfortable with judgment. But I've never thought of putting in a bill to go against them, never thought of it, never going to think of it. I'll never be able to do that while I'm here at the council. Never. I also have to make a comment about how people have been, both here in the hall and in public discussion in the community, grumbling about this subject. I am absolutely certain that those who have been the worst in this regard have not studied the matter or have ever had access to its evidence and have no knowledge of what they are talking about. I'm not going to discuss the matter materially, but I can say that the thing that bothers me with this and the legislation at the time, which took a huge fight with many lawyers, was this vast authority to keep men in custody, in solitary confinement. That battle lasted to 2008. Many defenders can surely tell you stories of their having defendants in custody for months, four months, five months, even while the police were looking for drugs that they were suspected of moving in that they were never found. It was just the reality of that time. Often, under the circumstances of the defendants, the custody of the guard became longer than the materials obtained. This may have meant some of the points discussed here. It is also a major misunderstanding that the defendants confessed to a disappearance or left these men in permanent isolation. It wasn't like that, it was after a very short isolation period. This public declaration was also made to the judges. Maybe nobody in this room knows, I don't know. But that's the way it was. I'm not saying it, not just in this case rather than in many others, that there could have been no reasonable doubt about this guilt. They never found the bodies. However, the evidence was based on these confessions, their intercompatibilities, whether they were compared with other data, and whether they were trustworthy when they related it. So many judicial cases have been found, and so many people have been condemned, large numbers, in confessions, even though drugs were never found, because other evidence provided support and support. There's no new word. There's one last thing that's disturbed me with this case and the court case, it's not just to demand acquiesc, it's to demand no recussion because this conviction, a dangerous assault that led to death, was just one of the decisions of punishment. I would have liked to know how much it was, but courts were not even able to do it. The decision was not required because all the defendants in this case were condemned for other matters, serious things, very serious things, part of the total punishment. In view of this, I feel that even more important is that courts address the benefits, not politicians. I can't support this bill, chief. Prime Minister, because I disagree with all of this treatment, disagreements with what the State has commanded, since this situation is not in harmony with the current conditions in the country. We politicians can't let ourselves, not in my mind, handle taxes like this, as the thought is. No matter how unjust we may feel about the matter, we cannot allow ourselves to do so. I can say that, though it may have picked a mess here in the hall, because people are talking about adding more people to this: I'll possibly support this if they get to join here who were falsely accused of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u34	Mr. President. It was an interesting speech. paritaprevir The armoury of the son of Níelsson, whom I must confess, is somehow in agreement with. And that's kind of awesome. [[Take it up: No!]] [[Up front.]] But I don't agree with everything he said. All I agree with is the legal point regarding the meaning of the bill and the paintings of it all. I was forced to come on the platform because of it. A senator began to wonder if those here have expressed themselves - in this case, in the matter, have studied the matter, and in its evidence. Then I learned the blood to confess that I have studied the evidence. I've read reports taken from the alleged defendants and rewritten, and I can't agree with that. A senator said that there was a confession made in some form of freedom. Those individuals looked like freedom. I also treasure our legal psychologist, the others facing Gísli, the son of Guðjónsson, who has made extensive comments on the subject. He is the greatest expert in the world in false confessions, and I trust what he has said. But I have to agree. A senator that at the conclusion of the Supreme Court, when it comes to the decision of the Supreme Court, there was little logical support behind the judgment that we received last September for those falsely accused. [[The president calls.]] I'll get in on it better in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u35	V.E.G. President. Looks like it's heading for what we're doing. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir of the same category. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Up front.]] We're about to start a new category. No, but I can say what. Senator I don't remember many confessions in freedom. It is rare for a person to admit that he is free. I would point out that when we appreciate the evidence of verbal advancement, it is no better than those who listen to him, to men, and to women, so that I won't forget. When we determine the value of testimony, whether it is a confession or something, it is important whether it is supported by other data, e.g. witness. Sævar's confession in the Guðmundy case was supported, for example. at the testimony of Bolladóttir Bolladdóttir, who accepts his involvement in this case after sitting in custody for 11 days. There's nothing unnatural about that. But that does not change the fact that we always need to appreciate it, and no one is better able to appreciate it than judges who listen to that statement, listen to what he said. When people listen to the revocation of confession, they also need to appreciate how credible it is. This knows everyone who's been in a lot of court, and I think that's why. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir knows the same thing too, but I'm not going to condemn one or anyone. I'm just saying that I protested that there was some progress in this regard. I can easily protest every isolation session for months, and I too can argue that it can often be reasonable to question the guilt of a person. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u36	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his word. Indeed, confession to freedom has taken place. There have been times when police officials refused and confessed to the court. It's happened. As strange as it sounds, it's happened, so it's real. I can't agree with what was said in a case at any point. The senator said that confessions in court were backed up with evidence so that the sea was in doubt. I think it's a bit farfetched, especially when data showed that the defendants had been led in a certain way, but they had reported that they had been in a certain place at a particular time, but the information fell somewhere between the investigators'panels. The defendants reported, e.g. From what they would have been watching on TV the night they were supposed to have been somewhere else in the country, and so on. I'm not going to trace the Guðmundurs and the Geirriður case, but I'm gonna say it again. A member of Parliament to provide the route of the current council hearing, which is concerned with the finally appointing of a research committee to review this matter. As far as I'm concerned, I'm counting on the senator's team. For those who were falsely accused, I think they received compensation. Right?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u37	V.E.G. President. Yes, they received compensations that were falsely accused, but they did not have members of the council to deal with them. They were in need of court hearings and judicial decisions. I will not support the investigation because the study has been conducted. I was even appointed attorney for the defense of Haukur Guðmundsson, an investigator. Lára V. Júlíusdóttir conducted that investigation, but maybe everyone has forgotten. That's why I know this case, that's why I saw all the evidence. I got paid for that from a government fund. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Indeed, it is true that men have confessed to a crime without being in custody. They've even come down to a police station to admit it, I know it all, but in every serious case, they admit they're free spirit. In this matter - Yes, they will start with that and lie to lawyers as well. [[Usually, people just deny it.]] Now the lawyer fucked me up, no, what? A senator and the lawyer. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'm just saying, in a review of these matters, I'd like to reiterate that those who listen to testimony, as we see in so many matters, where the conclusion is merely verbal, no other evidence, people wonder whether they can be trusted. Is there anything in the evidence that violates that statement? Was there something that didn't fit the evidence of other sources, alibis, anything else? Then I can understand. A senator says: This confession is not proof enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u38	President. Here we are discussing this matter, and members of the Parliament will decide whether it needs to be submitted. I think I need to agree with the prime minister that it is necessary to make that claim. I'm not sure that's a legal requirement, but I think it's necessary for the Icelandic government to save the face after a state attorney's report was submitted. I fear that the damage from all of this is incalculable and that we are not really going for the good. But I felt that the paper submitted by a government lawyer was on behalf of the Icelandic government, for that is so, terribly, merely to scatter salt on old wounds, and there are many of them. At this point, I think this matter is necessary, but maybe it should not have been necessary to do so. I think it's fine that we remember that none of this was necessary. We must never forget that. Guðmundur and Geirdar are sad stories, and she must not repeat herself again. There are some things in this that make me stop, e.g. This time period. The law should take effect immediately and be valid in the middle of the next year. I can't see anything but the creation of some kind of time pressure to end this situation by a certain time. There's no mention of Erla Bolladóttir, which I find incredibly sad. I can't control the amount of money mentioned here, any more than I can think of the suffering they're going to undo. I also wondered, " I think it's a great accident that I put it in the name or on the behalf of the government of the United States. ' I'm asking, is it going to be pulled back? It follows the feeling that this is just being done and that this case has not been thought well enough and that it is being spinning every day, and I don't quite understand how it's going to work. I wish with all my heart that this matter can be finished with dignity and respect, but at the same time, I fear that it will not be possible and that it will not be possible. But I wish for the success of this journey to the prime minister, she is certainly holding this matter in her arms.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u39	A respectable president. This case is older than I am. I don't remember how old I was when I first saw news on the Guðmundur and Geiriff case, but I still remember a news lesson when I was a kid that was covered, large letters of documents, very interesting to see this and never thought I should have had to write about it at the council, not at any turn. V.E.G. The prime minister raised huge questions about this matter, the unjust treatment of public authority. How should social contributions be made when public power is maligned? It was pretty much a quote. I didn't get it on paper quite fast. I just had a dash pen, not a pen. Now I have a pen and maybe I can get it more quickly and better. When I look at this technical issue, I don't see that it's necessary, or really fit the law we already have, as I came into answer to the highest standard. Prime Minister earlier. The law on public finances expects that it is paid out and only minus and plus after each year, that reserves are taken into consideration, and that the Constitution assumes that the General Assembly will provide financial resources or financial contributions. I don't see this as money or money. I don't see this as a specific law that gives backtrace to their dead. If that were the problem, I'd see another text on the bill, but I'm here. Like what? paritaprevir Margrét Tryggvadóttir came into this office only before doing this to attribute only the responsibility of abuse and the unjust treatment of public power. If I were to use a word for this, maybe not completely accurate or fair and not necessarily mean it, I would use the word "important" over the bill. I repeat, there is not necessarily an accurate word in that it describes its purpose or purpose, but that is a technical accurate word. I don't mean it in that way, as if the word showyness is often understood. After all, without any material intervention in this case, it reflects all the points that I can view as a permanent problem in Icelandic government that attracts certain insurance. They are made of mistakes, and they are allowed to roll over and over again for 45 years without anyone being responsible for that mistake. It is an attempt to ignore the making of the mistake and not to admit that it was a mistake. Everything is done to prevent the system from facing itself and acknowledging its own mistakes. Instead of digging deeper and deeper holes, we now face the depth of the hole so deep that no one knows how to dig into it. No one has an idea, but it's an attempt. I respect that experiment, but I still think it's a certain way of showing off. Again I say that I don't mean it in a bad way. I definitely respect that experiment. I find it important to discuss the systematic problem in Iceland that mistakes within the system are being protected. Suppose there is a new manager or director at some institution or public company and it becomes apparent when he receives all the data, how a case has been handled in an institution or company, that something is possible to break the law. Do we have any examples of such illegal acts being sent to an appropriate location? It may well be that someone has a better memory than I do in it, but I don't remember anything like that from the news. I'd think such a thing would go pretty high, but I don't remember anything like that, so I'll assume from my general memory that it didn't happen. We do know, however, that such cases arise and get up in some other way, although the system itself should accept that responsibility when it comes to it. Instead, it plays hide-and-seek. I cannot help but guess that it was comparable with investigators and even judges, even though I agree with them. paritaprevir The armoury of the son of Níelsson for the cause. I can't object to it as such, but there are definitely things that cause doubt and reflect wrong decisions or findings that have been ignored. When information and data are ignored and a decision is made without taking into account all the data, and there may be a wrong conclusion, someone is making a mistake. No one is responsible, and it's all about this, and there's a lot of other cases in the Icelandic government, even in the Senate, if we go into it. I have come to realize that in general it is extremely difficult to be a part of the Icelandic legal system. Not long ago, a senator charged the pay raise because she was not in harmony with the advice of dressers and so on. He wasn't involved, he wasn't allowed, and he was just dismissed. It is extremely difficult to be involved. It may have some effect on this, I don't know the letter of the law well, if it is to protect the rights of the victims of the alleged defendants in this case. Perhaps it is part of the problem that needs to be solved, but this bill does not correct that problem if we are to go on that legal course just that way. paritaprevir Brynjar the son of Níelsson was talking about, which I can quite agree to be the right way. I'm having a bit of a hard time with this exact case. I understand where it comes from, but I think that, after all, this hole will always be there. No matter what we do, there will always be a hole there and an attempt to fill it up even makes a new hole. I think we're facing it and we have to face it. When we realize that, we may be able to start to bear responsibility. Then I think the conversation will go in another direction and talk about such matters, not just this case, but that sort of thing in general, when we can face a mistake. There is no longer anyone who can be responsible. How, then, can we get over it? We just don't. I think it's impossible. If we admit it, I think we can start asking questions and giving answers instead of constantly pursuing the hide-and-seek that appears to be the case. I wish for this matter well-being, and I look forward to seeing the answers to the Constitution on the case regarding financial resources, financial contributions, and financial laws. Even if the case doesn't go there, I would be glad to see a financial committee pass in a review on this matter by linking with a government law on public finances and such.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u40	V.E.G. President. If I understood the speech, I would. A member of the council was right, but he was wondering whether they were officers and judges who were involved in the case at the time did not have to be responsible for this mistake. Do you understand? That's how I understood the speech. I warn them all because, while politicians and governments now decide that what was done 45 years ago is not a mistake, it is not a mistake. We cannot now decide that this was a mistake and that power had been maligned. If anyone can do that, it's a court. I'm warning that we're going that way, so I warn you about the eulogy proposal. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir has proposed and is being treated here at the council. I would also like to protest that the case was investigated by the authorities, that they acted dishonestly, or that they did something abnormal in this case, in their own time, whether it was a police officer or a judge. I will never take men that way, either here in the hall or anywhere else. It does not mean that politicians or present governments decide that these men have committed crimes. There is no evidence to suggest that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u41	A respectable president. The Congress is monitoring the Executive Director. There's nothing more complex than what I'm pointing out. We have this case under our hands and there's a firm Schroedger's case about what's right and what's not right. The only thing that we do here, in keeping with the Commission's surveillance, is to suggest that everything is under way. If it gives some results, it will enter the system of judgment and everything in the right process. I am not saying of or about the guilt or innocence of individuals at any point in this matter. I'm saying there are many questions you can ask, and it's only natural for the council to fulfill its role as a supervisor to the Commission. It's no more complicated than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u42	Mr. President. During the 45 years that have passed, I have not seen anything to indicate that the investigation and treatment of courts in the case had not been in harmony with legal laws and other laws then valid. At that time, the defendants had defenders, and they had access to the judges of that time. No such thing was identified, it all happens a long time later, speculation about it, actually 20 years later. I'd also like to talk to you for a second. A senator's speculation on the fact that there is no reference to money or money or anything like that. This matter is just like any other court case in which the state stands, they probably divide dozens of them at any given time, where the State even accepts the obligation or obligation, and that is just a written agreement. It's not going anywhere. It's just taken care of, like all other demands on the state, which are considered legitimate, some condemned. We don't have to discuss anything technical about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u43	A respectable president. I agree with that, and that's exactly what I'm trying to draw attention to, that a minister is already authorized to pay these compensations, under government law, no special bill is required to do that. That's what we've been trying to draw attention to. If there is any special right to pay compensation, it will be in accordance with the constitution of funds or funds. [[Up front.]] Regarding the past, it may be true that according to the accepted laws, investigators and judges did nothing wrong, but now we can accept that various rights have been broken, i.e. according to the laws now valid. We can provide additional sources back in time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u44	We can do what we want.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u45	We can. On the other hand, we cannot take back people's rights. That's the difference we're dealing with. This may mean that these people have been violated as we choose now, giving them additional sources back in time, but this does not mean that those who simply worked by law have broken any of them. Both can be true. To me, it's not really that complicated. [[Up front.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u46	A respectable president. This bill is for a number of things interesting and this piece of paper is very written, but it does not shed any light on why we are here. I don't understand, and a lot of people have said it earlier today, why bring the case here, and I'm no closer to speaking as Prime Minister earlier, because this is a matter that should have been over before it had entered the council. The case itself, the Guðmundur and Geir fictitian, is all far more than a tragedy, that's not a strong word. There's talk that there'll be a story of grief when it comes here to the council, when it's drawn into the politics. That's what Prime Minister's doing. She's pulling that political bitch back into it. And just at this brief period of time that we have been here, those who have been declared acquiesced by the independent court's decision, the Supreme Court, may need to listen to it over and over again that they do not agree with the Supreme Court's conclusions. They're exaggerating wounds. The patch is being ripped off and sprinkled into the wounds with salt. That's what I was afraid of when I first said, "Why are you bringing the matter in here?" Why on earth? The prime minister did so well when the Supreme Court judged the case and justified the case, for the next day an apology was made. I was very proud of the prime minister, as I am often. Then, in the hands of governments, everything is far more than clumsy. It's like there's a mistake on top. I'm not going to tell apathy, not at all because I know the prime minister wants to do well in this, but sometimes people make mistakes. Perhaps I'd rather discuss the Ministry of Presidency with all the experts there, why didn't men see the exact nature of this case? It's so special. I hope we never have to experience such a thing again. From the beginning, there has been an extraordinary way through the judgment system. I am a lawyer, but I have not had experiences like those of the others who have spoken here, which, in fact, I do not agree in all things, and I have read this judgment in the Guðmund and Geirfjörn case carefully in my time, and have followed it closely. I know the sincere position of the prime minister and at least the members of the members of the board, not all of them, and I don't understand why a person's work would look any better. It's behind the fact that it's not usually done. I don't agree that it's not, and I know the example of government ministers considering judicial procedures because a state attorney is nothing more than a lawman, like a lawyer in a town that is a legal attorney. I would have thought the message was simply: Let's acknowledge implicitly, completely unreservedly, injuring the State. They have apologized, and they have done so with dignity, that was an important apology, but they should also have said that the report written would be retracted and that no harm would be guaranteed. If men don't agree on compensation, I've told them they're being decided by the courts. In part, I think we're moving the court's role into the council. Why what happens here? Well, there's no more money on the committee than that. I'm just hoping that isn't the plan for us to go to some auction market with money here, better yet, what happens when the case is approved? There's nothing to say that the matter ends with the approved bill, nothing. This shows how unconcerned the matter is when asked earlier today: Where should the funds come from? Is that on any of the budgets? Then, as far as I can see, there was no clear answer from the Ministry of finance to whether the funds would come through funds or reserves. It naturally shows that this matter has not been considered to the end. I understand it's complicated. I understand that this is a question for the prime minister because it is unique. I hope no other prime minister has to face the challenge of trying to solve such a problem. Perhaps it would have been wise to speak simply with all classes, asking: What should we do to prevent us from putting the matter into the political realm? Report that the government is going to retract the report saying: "We're going to accept the irreparable damage responsibility of the state, and you're going to be expected to get high financial resources, so you know about it. Good point, I've said that the government is supposed to put up with such a trial because it's supposed to be unprecedented. I especially want to rejoice that I feel that the prime minister is making clear in the way that this is never to be done again, never to occur again. That is why the State has to realize that for this to happen again, the principle needs to be established, that everyone must be innocent until it is proven unconvinced, that it must be valid, and that the whole system must support it. It's not somebody else's fault. It was the politics of the time. If there's a matter that we should have known shouldn't be brought back to the Senate Hall, that's the case. We shouldn't have done that, but we'll finish it on the basis of the Commission's decision that the case should go to court on the level of credit. We built a system so that all these gangstones, which are supposed to be part of the security we're building up for our citizens and the people of the country, one after the other, in my opinion. In the end, people, individuals, families, experienced a 40 - year calamity, and the government, the system, must not fail. Moreover, there may not be a mob that causes the Kingdom to start with research, so that mobs will be lifted up. That's why I say, I'm not going to sit on a judge's seat, but the state will have no reason to pay for this mess so that everyone in the chain, the justice chain, which is involved in building it, including the politics, will know that they are not going into the area of the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution to follow the principles of the court state. Therefore, I feel that I should not pay large amounts of money, and I trust the courts to decide that. I still wondered why the prime minister did not simply ask a state lawyer to retract the report, saying: "No, this is not our way. We do not agree to take the course that was determined by that fine office. I don't want to bring in the person of a state attorney, but the message was simply not clear. It's so bad to see it in this matter, as I say, that the government and the Ministry have not been better aware of it rather than try to finish it as soon as possible, then use time to another, as if to bring preventative measures. What can do to prevent such a thing from happening again? Can we, for example... Listen to what was said in an article about one of the descendants of Tryggvi Rúnar, the son of Leifsson, who included the following: is suggested to be adopted a symbolic day for a system of justice that failed? That the government would suggest what it suggested that such a thing never happen again? Instead, this bill with a bill that, in my opinion, leads to nothing of the case, does not guarantee the rights of the painter, the challenger of the case, but rather they need to experience some doubt over the whole time and all the treatments, believing that the seminars in their time simply were guilty, as I understood before. paritaprevir The armour of Níelsson the son of Nils. I may have misunderstood. My message is merely that I find this bill sad, it's in some way political shows, even though I know it's good and strong the mind of a prime minister to do well in this matter. I just think this step was a mistake, and it's okay to admit it. This case must not save the face of the government. This case is to be a lesson for us to do what is right, to respond properly, and part of it is not to drag the political into it again. This cannot happen at all. So no one needs to be surprised that I have rather a problem with this route. I'd just like to add a little bit to the fact that this case has been alluded to as a political case since the decision was made, the change in law in 1999, and ever since politics was introduced into it. I don't agree with that. It is the Supreme Court that judges acquiesced, acquiesces on the basis of self - assessment, and it was not necessarily based on a change in the law of government treatment, but rather led new data to the one that had such basic meaning that the Supreme Court decided to justify the last fall. As we have seen, it may be highly critical whether this could have been done in any other way, but the Supreme Court has made its judgment, and we must simply respect it and evaluate it from that point on. Hence, prime minister's first steps were correct, reasonable, and beautiful, and important. I think it's wise now that we're not going to do anything crazy about this. I'm going to decide for myself whether the case is going to go to a full-scale educational committee or a board of administrations and monitoring committees. I think it was still the greatest argument that the government would bring back the existing report, accept the irrefutable damage responsibility, and say: "Can we agree, if people don't agree on the benefits, that we bring the part of the case before the courts and that it will be finished in the field of that decision? There's no place here at the council that we're discussing the level of financial resources, how difficult this whole matter is. [[The president calls.]] It has already begun, what we should have the sense to avoid.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u47	V.E.G. President. There's a big misunderstanding. A senator said that men were guilty. In contrast with many others here in this room, I don't think to be guilty, either in this matter, or in any other matter. It's not for me to judge that. But what's here, and there's a big misunderstanding. A senator has the Supreme Court acquitted. The Supreme Court was not able to take sides in the case, the criminal, whether these new evidence would affect the criminal record. It wasn't given to him, and it's serious to me. If the court wanted to justify it, he did not even get to take sides on how it would have affected the total punishment. It was all taken out of my hands on the court, and it's totally incomprehensible to me that man defends it. I want to point 'em, too. A senator is the government's never hurt. I've never seen the government as much as scratch. But taxpayers hurt. But I agree with one thing, but I'm not going to rejuvening about it, and it's because I don't like the idea that this case is going to the councilroom. It's been at a council hall for so long. It began with the late fall of Vilmundur Gylfason, who drew it into a church hall of his day and made the matter political. Since then it has been political, ever since. Politicals decide to record it. Politicalism goes past the courts, and politics is now going to pay for benefits that are in no way consistent with Icelandic reality, not even American. I won't be a part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u48	Madam President. The taxpayers are also voters and voters provide support. If they are not voters, who will do so? I will send them a message to the taxpayers, and the voters shall know that the government shall not fail. The taxpayers may also, the common voter, fail them, and we must not build a system that fails and violate basic human rights and basic princes in the Icelandic legal system. Even though I did. A senator would agree that this issue is not at home here, though, I will respect it to the prime minister that she is trying to get matters out of order. She's just going the wrong way. I think she could listen to the fact that she's going the wrong way. I respect her, though, that she is trying to correct all this discrimination. If it doesn't come from voters, then where should it come from? I think we should send out the message that it will cost the government, will cost us the politicians, if we don't do the job of building a system that's just, transparent, humane. That's why I feel that it matters to me how we react in this exact matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u49	V.E.G. President. There's no disagreement that I want righteous systems and benefits and all that. I am not authorized to take some position on who was wrong in this matter. I will never take part in taking this matter out of the court's hands where it belongs and returning the report - I understand the perspective of the Supreme Court. Prime Minister. If there's any doubt in the current law or uncertainty about the rights of a person or something like that, I understand, then that makes sense. But I say, It is my opinion that there are such expedients that I don't count anything else, and most naturally, than that the courts decide. But I could understand a bill that could guarantee the right to reform, since the matter has come into that direction. It was the Supreme Court that justified, the requirement for acquiescation. It's just a reality we have to accept. This is the case today. I don't want to take it more from the courts than it already has, and I don't want to decide whether any police officers or judges of old have failed with power. We don't know. There is no evidence to suggest that. I won't take the discussion there. But I want this case settled, and of course I want the state to make its highest demands. This does not rule out proper negotiations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u50	Madam President. I would like to stress that the Supreme Court determined that the results of the Re-Election Committee would last on chapter 16. Constitutions. He considered it himself, evaluated it on his own. [[Up front.]] It will not go against the independent courts. The Supreme Court himself determined that new data had arrived. He did not evaluate it on the basis of the changes made in 1999 but on the basis of articles on new data that have been long since 1974, under the Treaty of official cases. Whether the report disagrees with the prime minister has not yet been identified. I think it's important to come out. I believe it is important to note that the prime minister disagreed with the State Department's report on the matter. [[For example, listen to prime minister.]] I think we need to be clear. I also feel that it is important for people to wonder if they can subtract the matter from the way it is going. All of this procedure at the council is the responsibility of the members of the board. I still think it can be fixed so that we can do this in a clear way, and the message will be clear to all parties, to the endurance of the case. At any rate, we will not be able to delay, force it, or confuse it, but we will want to return the case so that it will provide an unambiguous message for the future statesmen of the system, whether it is within the jurisdiction, whether it is the legal or judicial authority, that the Gestapo will never come back. I think the most important project now is to try to take matters out of the direction it has come into place. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry, in view of the discussion that the matter has been here, it has come to the very political course that I was hoping would not be gone.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u51	Madam President. I'm among those who believe this case is not the business of the Council again. We have three-way power, arbitration, judiciary and legislative authority. The government has often been obliged to try to bring the rights of the legislature authority, and now it comes to the Commission's representative, the Supreme Magisterium. Prime Minister, and would like the legislature to join him in taking a case from the courts where it belongs and in some way making the Council responsible for the outcome. To make this perfectly clear, the person standing here is not legal, but he is even older than he is. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son, as mentioned earlier, has observed this disaster from the very beginning and has followed all the conversions that have taken place during these 45 years, or whatever it is, that many have been incredibly sad. I believe that because we generals are taking this case into the General Assembly, we are setting an example of taking a legal case that is still dealing with the case, using proben. It is not even that this crisis will end here, in that it will be taken care of in some way, unfortunately. It will not end here and now because one of the righteous has already committed a case against the State, and others have proclaimed that they will do the same. And what is the General now doing by discussing this matter? Prime Minister? Yes, we're being put on floors. We are ordered to submit and accept minimal improvements in the case, which is not the Lawgiver's project. It's an assignment from the courts. We are made worthy of some kind of one lifetime or part of it that has been lived under the shadow of this matter. I must admit that I am very reluctant to participate. I agree with it. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir said here. V.E.G. While doing this, the prime minister, in some part of the world, went out of her way, possibly because the State Attorney's report was made. Then one also asks himself, " What is the position of the attorney of the state, and I am speaking not of the person, but of the office, after this conversion? ' Is this an office that, if serious issues of opinion arise, would the execution of the European Commission take place before it, or change the course of the procedure quickly, or change its course? This is one of the factors. So when this transformation is made, it comes to the highest. The prime minister brings it in here and throws it into his arms at the council. Why? After a talk, I'm not clear at all. Prime Minister. She spoke here about some experts who have no face or name. They may come to light when they are addressed to a committee and become better aware of what lays the basis for the decision to the highest degree. Prosecution is based on bringing the matter back into the council, which is unfortunate. I think it's true to say a very serious example, and I can't overlook the fact that I think this is a mistake. Also because, as I have said before, this will not be the end of this tragic matter, unfortunately. This will not be the case, for perhaps the greatest of all, after a court of justice had been declared, would be the choice of benefits to those who have been wronged, defamed, and suffering. I say again: I'm totally reluctant to take part in this treatment, and I think that's right. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir said earlier, in many respects, that this matter would simply be returned, it will be taken back out of this chamber. If that's what it's willing to do. The prime minister that political solutions will not be resolved here in an open discussion. Although today's debate has been moderate and perfunctory, in my opinion, I don't think it's a good idea that we're discussing this way here, and that's why I don't want to be messing with a lot of the prime minister I respect very much about the matter. I simply believe that she made mistakes that can be corrected and corrected by simply taking the case out of here again. There has been much talk of the suffering and misdeeds that those who spent years in prison and the innocent had to suffer, and that is true. Of course, some amount of money does not change that for themselves. V.E.G. The prime minister did very well when she apologized for this procedure as soon as the Court of Supreme Court was before. That was very good, very clever, of courage, but that is why at the latter stages of this case, we cannot do it worse than we used to do. One thing is also that I must come to this talk: I am absolutely aware that this matter, this bill, deals with the individuals who were acquitted of the Supreme Court at the time, and I am absolutely aware that the bill, and this case everything, concerns them and their descendants, their suffering, their failure and sorrow, and the shadow that the matter has cast upon all their lives. But I have to mention, as I've been observing this case ever since those events happened, that I don't remember, I'll just be corrected if that is the case, that there's ever been a discussion about loss, failure and grief of the people who are Geirf Geirfinnur Einarsson and Guðmundur Einarsson. If it's ever been done, I'll gladly eat those words into my mouth, but I don't remember it being done. And talking about victims in this case, there has been no question about these men since those events. I must also admit that I have had a measure of resentment and more than the fact that these men and their families have been used as a platform in television pictures and magazine articles. I've been thinking about this a lot, and especially has it come to me for the last time. What is the right of these people? I am completely aware, as I said earlier, that this bill is about only those who were declared righteous at the time, but I am moved to mention the people who have lost nothing in the past 45 years. That my sentence has never been discussed in any way whether or not they may be entitled to something by the State, I am not necessarily talking about compensation. There's not been a single word for it so that I can remember, never. There's never been a mention of a loss. That's all I'm putting in here for thought. These men are victims because nothing has happened to them, and surely they are close to having suffered unutterablely at all times. It must be as if salt is sprinkled into the wounds at certain intervals when this matter has been restored, especially in the way it has been done in the past few years. If I could advise the highest. The prime minister would advise her to take this matter back and look for ways that politics can discuss it, not here, but elsewhere, and give them a collective view of which they are sure to agree. I think we all deserve it, nation. I think the council also deserves to be treated by this case. I don't talk about those who have hurt to bind this case and have suffered the pain of tying it for nearly 50 years. I think it would be a good thing if this case has come to pass on the political affairs, that it must be tried to solve it so that everyone could be the same after. In fact, I think there could be a test of what you can do in politics if you put your hands together, no matter where you are in politics. Of course, such issues as this are not a group of political issues in one or more respects. It's not about politics. It's about respect. It is about respect for people's lives and respect for their suffering and recognition. Let us all come forward and talk in one voice and agree on what we will do. And I say again, let us not judge that the Council take a case from the courts. That example is so serious. Even if everyone wishes that such a case will never come up again, we know that anything can happen. This can happen even if we are to find ways to make such mistakes, as was evidently made in this case in its own time, never again. It must be arranged in such a way that it is absolutely certain that the case of those accused or accused of being brought up by as much professionalism as possible and objective and responsibility. This was just one of the things I wanted to enter into this discussion. I encourage the prime minister to give much thought to what has been discussed in this discussion today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u52	Madam President. Thank you. Parliamentaries who have participated in this discussion. The question that has been most significant tonight is, Why is this matter being raised to the council? I can be the last speaker, huh? paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson agrees on a number of matters, but when the Supreme Court handed out his sentence and I offered an apology on behalf of the government at the time, I decided to appoint a reconciliation committee. At the time, I felt that the government could not help me to say: And then people can seek their rights before the courts. I thought it would be normal for us to try to negotiate some kind of fair compensation and other economic factors that we have not discussed here, although they are not directly related to this matter. Yet they will need to be attacked. The Commission concluded that equipment is that former defendants have the same rights as former defendants, who were still alive because they do not have a right to an independent error. The local attorney did not trust himself to offer ex-condemned benefits to the people of the former defendants who are still alive. That's the advice I'm going to stake on putting a bill here. It was always part of the ideas of the Synod Committee that a bill had to come to secure this level of equality. I hear there's a lot of lawyers. Senators doubt this, and I expect they'll have a chance to talk to all the lawyers we've come to. This is about at least equipment, not a single line in this matter, but so many others within the law. I thought it was a matter of fairness and justice that former defendants have the same rights as the former defendants who are still alive. It is based on this, and it is discussed in a paper that then reviews other issues that were taken into consideration on the basis of the Commission's work, primarily on a number of days but also on individual circumstances. This does not mean that there is one proper line in this matter. That's why this bill comes in here. I'm not interested in taking the case into the category of stereochrome shoot holes. That's the last thing I'd like to want, but I think it's important that governments can confirm their will to overcome, acknowledge the injustice confirmed by the Supreme Court in their judgment from last year on and that governments had a clear authority to offer these five different authorities, which would still be on this equal basis. I felt that it was important, and I agreed to the logical support of the peace committee, which spoke in the context of that fact that although not all former defendants were alive, the members of the others should still be moral candidates in this matter. This is not necessarily the traditional concept of law, but it is an argument that I agreed to, and it was important to me that this authority came into existence here. So I don't agree that this bill is virtual, although that word may have been interpreted in various ways during a talk. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví, Gunnarsson. It's not virtual, it's a clear scheme based on advice, a clear will to give the five parties a comparable position to the state. But, of course, this is also, if the bill is accepted, the clear will of the Generals to say, "We believe it right to the government to correct this injustice. " We do not conclude that people can continue to seek justice in court. We don't take that right from people, and it's very special. This case may also be criticized because it is not the correct legal process that is usually used. I thought it was important that the government there had the opportunity to try to finish paying the same amount of compensation, but then we can debate the level of compensation and the low compensation. I don't expect the General to take sides on this bill. That wouldn't make me wise. On the other hand, I felt that it was right to report it on a report, just so that all the information on a table for members of the council, where these coins would have been at the time when a peacemaker and a state lawyer would have left the case. This is certainly a complicated matter. So I had faith, and that is why the bill is not a new idea to me because it was part of a covenant commission's ideas, that by this, the Council and the government could demonstrate their utmost will. At the same time, I knew that it would not be likely that these cases would continue in the courts but that would also be fully aware of the willingness of the Generals to do better, although the State would, of course, have the right to act as a defense against the excess demands that would come from public funds. In view of what is discussed here on the case of a state attorney, it is obvious that this bill, if by law, will normally have a significant impact on the case, as this is made clear by all conflicting evidence of the improvement of the State on the case. I'm the last person to wish that this case is going to be part of a stereochrome shoot-hole. I'm sorry if people think it's my intention to make the bill. Here I am taking to heart the very clear advice of those who have taken the government's authority on the task of trying to make an agreement with all parties and following the overall vision that the five members of this group will be equal. That's why this bill is in here. There is no prayer here. Parliaments to take part in material discussions on the subject or to go to some pretext on the amount of money. This bill isn't part of the plan, and I'm sorry if it is. Senators are setting me up here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-08-13.u53	A respectable president. I just wanted to apologize for having used the word "important" in this regard. I tried to share it in my speech that I didn't mean it that way. I was trying to set up the stage, on official financial laws, and on the authority of a minister to provide benefits that come from courts, that it would already be, and if it were true, it would be a partial restoration of something already present. In this way, I may have used the word showy, but it's not quite accurate. In such a situation, I felt that this was somehow appropriate. I fully appreciate it, and I tried to promote it, that I did not think it was a goal or meaning at all. Prime Minister. I just want to correct it, and I'd like to ask for respect if it did get that way. I don't expect an answer. I'm just saying I'm sorry.
