ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u1	Borist has received a letter from the following wanted-to-need counsellors to provide written answers to queries: three letters from the Foreign Minister for the requested application of the inquiries. 113, on the commitment of the Icelandic State to properly introduced EU types, to have a priority in Icelandic dishes, from Ólafur Ísleifsson; on the icicle. 124, the Ministry's comments on legal opinions, from Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Issu, and on roof. 228, through the ministry's out-of-state tours, from Seystein, Sæmundsson. A letter received from the health secretary for the petition. 244, for the cost of residence at the governor's office, for the land hospital office, and for the Blood Bank, from the Sigurður of Páll Jónsson. Finally, a letter from the Minister of Justice was received for a petition on the subject. 202, for the administration of custody and society, from Björn Leví the son of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u2	Mr. President. Yesterday, a discussion with the President's conference board was launched on the possibility of a government stand, those interested in the news about how to treat a pregnant woman who was dismissed from the country against the professional counsel, to discuss this. It was shown in a case of the highest order. To the president that in itself, he felt that there was no shortage of resources and opportunities within the framework of Congress to address important issues. At this meeting, good if not during the highest. The president made those comments, and I sent mail to the chairman of Congress with a request to find out if it would be the highest level. A health minister would be able to sit in an unprepared question period today to discuss matters related to it and to these events. The most exciting thing is to say that it is the highest. The health minister isn't sitting here. But what's worse is that I didn't get any answers to that request. So I'm going to question a word of the highest degree. President that there is no lack of resources and opportunities within the framework of Congress. I have no idea if a head was searched for the highest. A minister would be here to participate in discussions about these matters, so I would deny that we have all the opportunities we need to speak to a minister when urgent political issues arise in the present but do not follow some rigid and preconceived program.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u3	The president is amazed at these words, for in a direct following of the discussions that took place yesterday, the request for a specific discussion was received, and the president contributed to that discussion to this day. I feel that it is a very long way to complain specifically that the wishes have not been accepted. The next day, when specific discussions are placed on the program immediately, they will discuss this subject. The minister of the seminary responded. These wishes had come to the highest. Health Minister, but the highest. A minister had already made plans elsewhere at that time, which is perfectly understandable, in view of the fact that under the government's organization it was not on the lists of ministers who were in an unsupervised question period today. She was on Monday, however. So the president does not consider this criticism to be the basis.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u4	A respectable president. I heard no better than criticism. paritaprevir In fact, Friðriksson's husband, Katrín's son, explained that she did not have any answers about how she had responded to the advances to receive the highest power. Health Minister, Svandís of Svavarsdóttir, is meeting us here today to discuss matters that weigh heavily on many. I don't think it's a big question to ask for such requests to be at least answer and that the members of Parliament will know if they are at the highest level. The president and members of the council have responded to such wishes. I don't find it rude or demanding or ungrateful on the part of the people. Senators want to know.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u5	Mr. President. Of course, it is very good that the president responded rapidly to requests to have a special discussion on the subject that we will discuss later today. Yet, what needs to be made up of is that the government's entire organization wanted to be the highest authority. The health minister is in charge of answers during unprepared time of inquiry, and we were not told. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, head of the Assembly of the Refects, sent mail to members of the House of Government in charge, took up the request and asked for the highest office. A health minister would be here today. She may not be able to stay here, and there may be legitimate explanations for all of that. But we never got answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u6	I hope the President doesn't have to repeat that this was being investigated and the results became the case, the highest. A minister had made other arrangements. Should have gone to the top. A minister could change his schedule and be on the list, of course, the answer would have been received in that an announcement had been sent out to the secretary's new contact list in unsupervised requests. I assumed that the change would not be the same list of participants.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u7	Mr. President. It is not in itself much to add to what has been presented here, and surely it is good to know that a careful and specific request could be given. In view of the seriousness of the matter, I'm going to let myself be added: But not what? The fact is, however, that I will be able to stand here and ask for an answer to a request like this, except for the need to look at the Open Page of the Generals to see if there was a change in the list. The request was simply said, by permission of the president: 'Heil and happy.' I would like to be checked if the Minister of Health can come in unprepared requests tomorrow to discuss points relating to the deportation of a pregnant woman from the country to the point where no special discussion can be made at the highest level. Minister of Justice here, the nature of the case. Under this request, all members of the House of Congress took the position of government, but no answers were received from the council. That's what criticism is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u8	Criticism, then, says that it was not specifically answered that it was done exactly by e - mail to determine the highest level. A minister could change his schedule and come here to answer in question class. [[Up front.]] It remains the criticism, and then it is best to make everyone happy that the president apologizes that he did not specifically answer it during the night yesterday or this morning when it was clear that he was at the highest. A minister couldn't be here to do that. But I believed that the minister's constant presence was in itself an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u9	Mr. President. I feel that Mr. President has become quite evident as far as he is concerned, and lately he is riding toward a body of Congress. Here are some simple questions. Last night, he wanted the highest. The president is reluctant to give up all talk that he is biased. I'm not saying it, but I'm asking him to appear in the name of the entire United States and speak for more of us than to give lengthy talks on the affairs of the Government or to talk about who are the youngest and eldest in the government, as he has done on various occasions. I don't think it's unusual that Mr. President will answer a request that comes to him in this room because he is truly the president of all of us, and I hope he wants to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u10	The president must admit that he was so prepared for this reaction at the beginning of a meeting, when asked for the word for the President's conference board, that the president thought that it was to thank him for this special discussion, but the content of the discussion was different.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u11	To answer, Ministers of Economics and Economics, Education and Culture, Tourism, Industrial and Neony Ministers, Transport and Regional Ministers and Ministers and Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u12	Mr. President. Recently, the answer is received, on a threshing floor. 193, from the fiscal and economic secretary on the cost of land activation by a cable. The answer says, in which the Ministry of Economics and Economics has the right to give president permission to say: ... wherethe company is excluded from the rules of information law, No. 140/2012, and it's business information that cannot be given...How would the answer be ignored? I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Where the Law No. 140/2012 contains regulations that allow land activation to be the exception of information laws? Second, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: She feels that it is normal for a company entirely owned by the State to refuse to answer to the Allied Council for information that is more or less for granted, i.e. Ask about how much land-resurrection spent in the last ten years preparing for a sea cable? The request was made late winter. Of course, she could not be answered during this discussion about the third energy package. But now this is an answer that's not- mine and I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Does she feel normal that this company, which is totally a publicist, asks for information, answers to questions raised by need, and that the public needs to know what is asked?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u13	Mr. President. To answer the first part of the question, I just have to give myself space to look up relevant legislation and the relevant laws and read it through, interpret it, and believe in it. I didn't have it in front of me during an unprepared question period. Regarding the latter part of the question, whether it is reasonable for me to understand the information law not to apply on land induction as an official partner, of course, is that what is in the current law, and to this end there are various reasons. If we are to change that law, we need to discern and consider its effect. Of course, it's a huge company on a large market that's running a lot of money, making large contracts with big companies that are still so they're not published today. Of course, there is something else in this discussion, but I've suggested in the past that I feel that there is a lack of transparency in those contracts and that we could get further into the debate over energy market development and other such developments if there was. I haven't read the financial minister's answer or his Ministry asking what question. Senator on this. There are indications that land induction has examined and had some work regarding the potential for sea cables, i.e. Analyze its benefits, its flaws, its likeability. This has been done by governments in the past. It put the head of the Central Party, then prime minister, on the program with much greater weight than the national inactivation, to examine the willingness to have a sea cable here laid. Of course, as we have discussed before, such decisions will never be taken into the land induction process, and this discussion will be sufficiently transparent if at any point in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u14	Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister for information should be read from 2 stkt 2 st. Opportunities, No. 140/2012, with President's permission: ▪ This law will take up all the work of the law, which is 51% part or more owned by the government. That is how the holy word was spoken. In a radio interview the other day, the director of national activation revealed that the cable as such was like a customer, there could not be any information about it. Then the question is: Has Land induction stood in negotiations with some undisclosed party on the fixation of a cable? There is no record that hundreds of millions of people have been assigned to this work. So I ask: Has Land activation, so to speak. Minister knows, do negotiations with any particular or unspecified party of the sea cable turn to Iceland from Europe?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u15	Mr. President. In that example, there was no time. A member of the Sanhedrin referred to it as the Ministry of Presidency. The law is as it is, but in this case it was the Ministry of Presidency that gave the exception. National activation has never been directly negotiated on sea cables, now or before, so it is entirely available. In general, I believe that public agencies and public companies should have as much transparency as possible in their jobs and information sources. In this case a inquiry was made, and there was an answer, and the Ministry of the Presidency provided annuity. That's the way it is. I don't have a basis for evaluating it, when I'm standing here, what the basis is for them to state the source that they then received not to publish any further information, but there are no negotiations in Land act to fix a cable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u16	President. I've come up here to talk to the highest. On the contrary, during the 36th week of pregnancy, a court official reportedly dismissed the counsel of a pregnant woman along with a two - year - old son and mate, on the contrary to the simple counsel of a midwife and a doctor in the emergency department of the Mother's Hospital. The procedure seems to have been based on proof from a doctor who had never seen the woman but had evaluated her travel on the basis of a three - week - old woman's visit to a psychiatrist. It's like the highest. The minister of the press, she does not comment on specific matters, so I'm not going to ask a minister to express his opinion on this procedure. Rather, the government in general's treatment of refugees and to pray to the highest degree. Minister to explain the government's policy in the escape affairs of the people. You know, before that, you've got the highest. On the contrary, a minister argues that the refugee situation is a humanitarian policy, but according to yesterday's news, as well as the response of a government representative yesterday, it is confirmed that this is a form of mass pressured policy on people's affairs in search of protection. Yes, because of the highest. As with the health care of the capital area, it is impossible for women to fly after week 32. Tells you the highest. Minister that by directing women to flee from the country in such a condition, the Icelandic government is considering the clear goals of a law that just says that here the humane treatment of the people should be guaranteed for protection?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u17	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this question. Regarding the affairs of the government, it is very clear in this series as reflected in its declaration of policy, that there will be a fundamental principle and international commitment and that the good and effective handling of applications for international protection. It's an exit point. Here, a new universal law on foreigners was adopted, with almost all due votes based on parapolitical work. That group and that legislation are based on what has even been said. The government's policy on humanitarian treatment and efficient service. It's where we have to and are doing well, that there's always an individual assessment when people come here and apply for international protection that our system will respond to them quickly and safely, whether they have the right to protect it or not. We can see that we are being successful in telling people that they can be protected in 4◯11 days, those who are entitled to do so, including those who are entitled to do so. ... fromtheYnesuela. Because of these priorities, people here who have a right to protect are better able to adapt to Icelandic society, and the system has pleased them well. This is how the system is supposed to work, that it works well, and that mainly for those who need it when making difficult decisions is that equipment is good, that people get less answers quickly and safely, and that humanity is being guided by these measures too. Because it specifically includes this type of practice, the exceptions to which one can go and is used often in medical situations must be made clear by the health authorities to stop the deportation process. [[The president calls.]] It has been postponed, and this has been done repeatedly in our system of physical, mental, or physical illness. if you are pregnant.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u18	Mr. President. I'm sorry to be the highest. Ministers have done whatever she could to avoid answering the question asked for it, i.e. whether to dismiss a woman from her country during late pregnancy, a woman who has walked 36 weeks, agrees with the humanitarian policy of refugees. I'm not asking the highest. Minister to comment on this specific matter. I'm asking the highest. A minister to answer whether or not it is right to go against the direct recommendation of healthcare professionals, i.e. The health care of the capital area, which does not recommend women flying at all after week 32. It is clear that yesterday's failures were made when much older certicates were made over new certicates and strongly recommended staff Hospitals. But now I'm not asking the highest. Minister on that, at least they say it's the best. Ministers do not comment on specific matters. I'm just asking for a clear answer, yes or no, tops. Minister: Is running a woman who has walked 36 weeks from the country by airplane a human policy?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u19	A respectable president. As our law says, it is for health care professionals to evaluate, not lawyers, when the party is put at risk by boarding a plane and being dismissed from the country. Of course, I am human like other members of Congress, and seeing the news bothered me. However, there was clear counsel from the health authorities that there was no danger in this case. Then there's another recommendation, and I'm going to refer to the head of the Foreign Institute for Human Rights to be clear. [[Up front.]] So I welcome the initiative of a surgeon to take this recommendation because it's here that needs to be considered. [[Up front.]] This is where we can do better. The surgeon has referred to the need to consider the recommendations of the health authorities to us because it is not the task of the Foreign Institute to examine the patient file and the personal interest of individuals and we do not want such a system. Of course, we want to get a clear answer from the health authorities, and I'm glad that the Foreign Institute is going to sit down with the surgeon general to check it out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u20	Mr. President. I'm here to call for backup from the highest level. Because a simple and clear question was made where a yes or no answer was requested from the highest level. Minister. However, the minister did not answer the question; she did not answer it at all. It doesn't matter what the highest. The secretary of finance is in the back, the question was not answered. It's just that way. There was a request for clear answers from the highest level. Minister and I sincerely pray to the highest degree. The president to assist so that the minister will answer the questions directly addressed to her. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u21	This isn't about the President's conference board. Senators hire their own questions, ministers hire their own answers. That is all there is to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u22	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance, to the point that the state is now expanding. In recent years hundreds of billions of dollars have been collected into a wealth of goods, but at the same time money flows in, it is being cut down by micropigs. If it's not Reykjavíkurburg, it's the state. I'd like to know how to bring this chain-based impairment to micro-germs. Is there an excel-tail, algorithm, that calculates it? Can be taken at least 3 or 4 times. If you post 1 or 2 k, you come from the system. The other side of the system? Has it been created so that either the microchip will not get anything out of the added or lost? It seems that it has become quite common in the system to see that people are being punished. First they say, "You're gonna get some money." And people get it for the first month that they pay and destroy it, but a month later, it is taken back and even more. It's a lousy, inhuman system. At the same time, the test subject, particularly the monitoring team, increases with monitoring committees. There's been an expansion of about 8 billion since 2014. One institution goes from 50 million to 500 million. There seems to be endless money, and when you look at the numbers, there is no cutting down. There is a growing trend, but in some way we will always find large banks of older cities and micropows, and somehow we need to put more effort on them. Why don't we just turn this around? Why don't we cut down the booth and raise the money to senior citizens and make sure they get what's being promised, but they're always taken from them?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u23	A respectable president. I think it might be wise for us to take together information about further contributions to the seminary at any given moment. A senator fights hard, and I respect it, and I will then discuss whether the contributions have grown or been replaced. This statement seems to account for the fact that there is nothing here but to crowd out those whose feet are in the community, who are affected, and who have the right to repay social security. The numbers just show a whole different picture. Here's what we're gonna do. A senator raised a financial minister case that is subject to another minister and is reviewing the rules that have gone on for several years. We have set aside 4 billion in a financial program, have begun to replace that pot, so to speak, in 2019 and assume to use that amount to improve the legal status of these people as soon as possible next year. Right away. A senator speaks of impairment, I feel that he is totally ignoring the fact that in the national reform systems that we meet, we are trying to ensure that the limited resources we have from making ratios to those most in need. That's when we start removing from those who have other income institutions, those who have something else to play. This is our way of making sure that the limited resources that we have first visited those who have little, few of them with no pensions, live alone, or have no income. It's the people we put at the front of the line. Right away. A senator speaks for our discontinuation of all the impairments by speaking on behalf of all the others. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u24	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The secretary of finance for these answers, and I'm going to take him out of the word. Finally! Let's figure this out in real time, let's figure it out right. It's about him. How do taxes be calculated? Tax taxes come in the right year, but when does the damage come? They come a year later. Do they come in on the tax returns? No, never. This applies to all impairments. They come a year later and never come up on tax returns. A hundred thousand bucks, maybe. into his account, which is tax returns, but it's taken a year later, completely the hundred, but it doesn't show up on tax returns. Let's get this right. Let's just take it together. I agree with that, thank you very much, and I hope very much that this is exactly what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u25	A respectable president. I believe there would be a lot of work to be done by contemporaneous adjustment of all the government's insurance payments and insurance agencies if possible. These cases, where it is found that the one with the rights of the system has to be returned due to overpaying, are because the criteria that the person has often submitted to the system have failed, e.g. Grounds for income or pension or other income that can fall on the reference year. But then there are also some who have a right to further improvement because the premium has been overrated as to the side of the income. But concordats, cotime correction is something that we must be moving toward, and I would very much like to participate in a conversation that enables our carts to no longer have these post-requisite corrections related to tax returns.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u26	A respectable president. I will continue to discuss the case of this Albanian woman who was expelled from the country by 36 weeks. I'm going to let me talk about this unique case because the Marshal and the Foreign Institute have expressed themselves about it and, as a matter of fact, a minister. So I don't think it's unusual that we'll talk about it here. It has been observed, a respected president, that the health care of the capital area establishes that women in the risk march should not fly after 32 weeks of pregnancy. It is the same health care as the National Institute for Foreign Health that allows them to move her abroad, the same National Institute of Health. Yesterday's Cast Light said that they could not relate to these people, but they still respect all the rights. The answers made by a minister are in a way that all rules have been followed in this matter. A respectable president. There is a doubt that this woman was in a particularly delicate position, and that group of inmates has special protection, including some of them,. it should be sought that a professional with appropriate expertise or experience, possibly someone who knows that women in risk pregnancy should not fly after 32 weeks of pregnancy. I would like to ask a minister: Does something mean to hide in the background of these facts? I'd like to ask a minister, in contrast to the highest. Secretary, in contrast to the appointed head of the Foreign Institute for Foreign Affairs, to identify with this family. If a woman near her was 36 weeks pregnant and moved away from the country for a period of 19 hours, would she say that the U.S. Marshal's Office had been careful? We know it's the highest. A minister has said, with president's permission: ◯ We all want to be careful, especially when it comes to pregnant mothers, their children, born or unborn.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. The evaluation should be individualised and given as a matter of concern. A senator refers to and has been discussed as well as on an individual basis. There was a situation that we are going to have, and we are going to have a surgeon and an Foreign Institute, sit together to see if there is something we need to change or explain where we can do better. Thus, we need to approach the affairs of foreigners. We will have no success in this group if the discussion is polarized or is recorded only when individual issues arise in the media. We are here with an enormous number of lawsuits and many cases, we provide a number of protections, and we want to set priorities for them so that, of course, special matters arise that show that somewhere we need to do better. That's how we're supposed to work at the Senate Committee I've tried to order, and we're still waiting for an appointment from a number of categories to cover where we can do even better because the laws we're enforcing are the result of a tripolitic job. I think there are many ways to turn this case. The Ministry of Justice does not make unique cases; they do not enter a minister's table, as used earlier, when the Ministry of Justice had the right legal authority. There were also only about 35 applications for international protection. I am glad that individual cases do not satisfy political ideals. I think that there is a unique evaluation that needs to be performed by doctors and health care professionals at one time to evaluate pregnancy and whether a woman who is often self-trusting to do so will fly on a plane during this time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u28	A respectable president. I asked the highest. Minister if she felt that this issue had been handled with caution, whether the U.S. Marshal's Department had taken care of the information available, i.e. that there are risks of pregnancy and that women with a high risk pregnancy should not fly after 32 weeks. It's a woman who's at week 36, and I asked for the highest. Minister to put himself in her shoes. That's what I asked for. Is this the case that the U.S. Marshal's supporting department was careful? Did she really? The minister mentioned that ministers are no longer acting on specific matters. I would also like to ask a minister if the Ministry of Justice has been informed of the possible evacuation of this family and of the woman's circumstances and exactly when the Minister of Justice himself was informed about this. But most of all, I'm asking the Minister for his opinion. [[The president calls.]] Did she really feel that she was careful about this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u29	A respectable president. Like others, I received information on this issue in the media last morning. When I saw it, I sent a request to the Ministry to get information on this particular case so that I could see the evidence that was lying there and making decisions. Only then did the Ministry have a problem with the case. There was a lack of information, and then I got more information on it. It was my only visit to the Ministry. Senator wants to know if the Marshal was careful. According to the information I wanted, today's standard procedures were followed. I specifically considered the time of postponement, and frequent, very clear recommendations have been made, as noted, that evacuation should not occur because of risks, illness, or pregnancy. [[The president calls.]] If it's very clear, deportation is postponed, and that's what we have many examples. As I told you before, I am celebrating the work of the land doctor and the National Institute of the U.S.A., waiting for the results to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u30	Mr. President. I'd like to have a place to talk to. Minister for the head of the forward party. My request concerns two matters that involve the situation of immigrants in this country and that have been prominent during the week's discussion. On the one hand, there are many comments from the Ministry of Social Affairs at a table at Iceland's University of Nationalview, U.S.A. Friday, which has been discussed earlier in this hall, and I'm not going to repeat it, which has been condemned by many sources, including last with a statement made by the Enterprise's union, it reflected a high level of prejudice and apathy regarding the rights of immigrants to the labour market. However, it is the inhuman treatment of a pregnant Albanian woman who had applied for international protection and was moved out of the country last morning and was being discussed in an espionage class earlier today. The contents of the rest of the rest of the rest of the attack are not at the table of those represented by the Agency in this government, but the party is certainly responsible for them, along with the two administrations. you can find in the cooperation of this government's government the humane treatment of inmates. Of course, labour markets and immigrants are responsible for the direct responsibility of the Agency. I feel that silence has characterized the response of the party in these matters, and therefore it is appropriate to ask the head of the Agency: Are the two issues in line with the policy of this government, as assessed by the head of the advance party, both for immigrants and for refugees? A reflection of the Ministry of Social Affairs Department's review of the government's position on immigrants in the Icelandic labour market? Does Ministers believe that the deportation of a pregnant woman is in line with the objective of a foreigner to ensure the humanitarian treatment of the government of foreigners, as is clearly stated in the government covenant?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u31	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for directing his case to me as chairman of the forward party, although it did not protect my legal classes as ministers. The Senate may now know, and those who listen may know that the views of the restoration and the forwarding party are very different in many matters. That's why we have what we need. At times, a senator succeeded in this chair. I understand not to shoot at all how it's done. A senator can drag a secretary from another Ministry to the table to talk to the head of the parish Party. I can't answer for it, and I know why. The senator had a conversation with the Minister on this comment on Monday. However, I can report that the advance party has always held tight all the less fortunate members of society, especially immigrants. We have been very busy in such matters. We're a liberal humanity group. It may be the only nerve between the advance party and the restoration, i.e. When it comes to such matters. In most other matters, these two classes are somewhat different. The reverends often speak down to the forward party from this chair, using the word "three more progressive groups. " I think it's a natural compliment! In our policy of advancement, values are higher than they are. It is the beginning of the category how we have kept our arms around those less lenient in all our society, how we have put our arms around queer people, how we have been equal to our country, and so forth. Clearly, we care. However, the seminar on this subject is not supported by me or by the ministry we have, but we believe it and trust that the rules we set at the Council are followed. [[The president calls.]] However, it is noteworthy when, as happened yesterday, special matters arise, and I think that all of us have had a little heart - to - heart pain at that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u32	Mr. President. It may not be surprising that the Archipelago and the Supreme Class. Ministers don't agree on much. But I am happy to learn that here we agree on the importance of protecting the interests and rights of those who may be least allowed to share in the community. This certainly is a very fragile group. V.E.G. The minister is critical that I take up here the statement by the Ministry of Ministers under the attention of the Agency, which is under the direction of the Agency, but this is certainly because the Ministry of Ministers, rather than the Minister, is represented by the government, regarding the affairs of immigrants in a more delicate labour market and has been repeatedly discussed in this chamber. It is repeated, systematic, and deliberate violation of the rights of this group. Sadly, the Ministry Director's comment, which spoke as a minister, reflected no special respect for this delicate position or of violating the rights of this group. That's why I find it very normal that the government's rights do not conflict with government policy on these matters. [[The president calls.]] It hasn't been done yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u33	A respectable president. I haven't seen this comment, all I've seen is a news transfer of them, so I can't tell you exactly what was said there. But considering that news transfer, what man is supposed to have said is obviously neither in the spirit nor under the direction of the government nor the forward party, I just don't know it. But it may well be that the construction and forwarding party are ready to work together as a team when it comes to a more liberal course toward lesser ones. Of course, it is a matter of putting it into action. That's what we've been doing for 102 years. I still haven't seen Resurrected do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u34	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Transport and Regional Minister for granting my request to discuss the transport contract of the capital and the important challenges we face in transport in this area. Iceland is a large but small country that makes driving a transport system, as we call it, a challenge and a difficult task. I know that many of these are called for improved transport workers, and a minister and us at the council are often in trouble when it comes to putting money on transportation. What is the best way to set priorities? In this discussion today, I prioritize the capital area over the region. It's not because I didn't have the urgent and important tasks there, but because I think there's good reason why the capital area is getting our attention right now. So I'm reiterate that we're dealing with the transport issues of the capital area. At 148th, I proposed a inquiry to the highest level. Transporter for funding that would have been spent in the past ten years on transportation, as measured by elections. The answer speaks for itself. More than 159 billion moved to a new development and maintenance of the roads in 2007 to the017 of 2007. Of that amount, only 17% went to the capital area. 17% went to the area where about 70% of the population lives, a greater proportion of the population is working, and all the people regularly visit where all the main services are here, as well as almost all the tourists who go home. I'm not saying that 70% of this money should have gone to the capital area because, as I said before, the country is big, and here it is expensive to maintain good transport. But can't we all agree that there's something wrong with 17%? Then some say that rural society has made up a new business with treaties on public transportation, where some 1 billion were supposed to flow into public transport every year. So it can be said that it is certainly true that rural society made a contract, a long - awaited agreement that the State would somehow cause public transportation to take place. The billions of dollars that year never returned, but the amount ranged from 600 to700 million and into 900 million. And even if this number is taken, and, of course, the government's concentrations for public transportation in the country also move slightly around this percentage. Then it is important to keep in mind that in most places, if not everywhere, there are public transports between two administrative ladders, either a rural partner or a rural partner and a state, like here. In addition, there was a list of agreement projects not to go into the coming years, although projects that were not listed in the list of delays, but were on the transport program at that time, were repeatedly suspended. I would like to mention Eaglenes Road. In any case, there is reason to rejoice over the steps now taken by the cooperation of state and rural society in the capital area by the transport contract of the region. As a matter of fact, I hope this is the first step in speaking here about a special transport program for the capital area. The rural areas in the region have been working in recent years to support regional structure, of course, where transport between areas is crucial. It is a transverse conclusion of that work and then continued community work by the Ministry and Road making that the solution to transportation in the capital area is a mixed route. Thus, active transport is emphasised by extending infrastructures to walking and wheeling along with a generous contribution to the urban line and the growth of public transport, but also by means of funding for the infrastructure system with light controls and mixed streets where appropriate. I agree with this way and feel that freedom of choice is real in transportation. People living here are supposed to have real choices about how they choose to move around. Therefore, it is important to offer a wide range of good qualities in transport, qualities that can be real competition with the private car for the people it chooses. Better transport is a quality of life, and we want to improve the quality of our lives. Of course, improved transport is a major safety issue, and most of all, transport is a huge environment. Therefore, I would like to have an opportunity to discuss this agreement with the minister and to direct the following questions to him: How will the transport issue affect transport in the capital area over the next few years? What was and will be cooperated with the communities and other professionals? How does transportation and transportation plan relate? Is it reasonable to conclude that for the future, we will have two transport plans, one capital area and one another? How realistic is it to conclude that projects specified in the contract will run out at the specified time? During the period of the transport contract, will the waterway become reality, and how will the waterway use capital and land?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u35	A respectable president. Thank you. Haraldsdóttir But I actually think, so I'll answer right away, that we can never give all the emphasis to the capital or one single factor. I think we're going to have to see the whole country. It is asked about goals and the effects of the transport sector will have here. The aim is to promote sustainable, efficient, efficient, and safe transport in the capital area, helping to achieve the climate targets of state and rural communities on sustainable, noncarbonistic urban society, and at the same time promoting the balance of the structure of all infrastructure, infrastructure, public transport, wheel and footpaths, working on the expected population growth, so that more people can be able to see their own benefits in ways other than the family car and in the current traffic activities that are already increasing. The increased share of public transportation, walking, and biking is further distributed by all, in a more targeted way, and by improving the efficiency of all. The role of cooperation with rural society and other organisations and how it will be so far has been in both the national management and SSH, the local community in the capital area, as well as in the special working groups that have proposed the reports and the agreements under discussion, from now on, the project is moving to a different phase, which requires more formal cooperation with the development and preparation phases. Thus, a joint society holding tight to the project is expected to be established under the agreement, and society's administration is expected to be organized to representatives of both the state and the community. What connection is there between transport and transportation? Yes, in a transport program, the state's direct contribution is defined, i.e. 2 billion per year for 15 years to meet the cost of implementation for the currently existing transport projects as well as those in the transport contract projects. Asking if it's wise to have two transport plans here. The short answer is: No. The further answer is that one of the key reasons why this is being done in this way is that an important part of this agreement is the development and sale of the Canaanites, which are intended to provide some of the terms of the covenant. It is suggested to create an enterprise, a company as the maximum value of the country, by ensuring effective public transport with it as well. It was considered best to establish an enterprise that keeps both the development of the country and the financing and the part that is. In addition, many of the projects are more complex than ever, and thus they call for a very close cooperation between unions and unions. In particular, these include the construction of a city line located throughout the capital area of road transport and rural roads, and many projects are intertwined, i.e. at the same time. There is also an increased emphasis on the infrastructure of active transport, walking, and wheels, which may also be complex and expensive stock solutions requiring a different approach than in a standard transport program. That is why it was decided to go that way in this case. For example, a transport program will include other short - range projects, the road across the Axi, the way across the Hornhjörður, a bridge over the Fairy Sea, which, in turn, is funded by a payment, in a way that may be called quick charges. They are marked in a specific way in a transport plan, much like the transport covenant project. How likely is it that these projects will run out at the appointed time? Of course, all implementation programmes depend on certain uncertainty. The one that shows up here is no exception. There are many things that are still going to be implemented and completed related to planning, design, implementation of individual projects, so it is clear that the time line there might be changed. The big picture is, however, that in the agreement, this package of construction is suggested to be completed during the specified period of time and the effect on driving in the region, though something is moving in the period of time. This has been defined as means of financing and cooperation. With the waterway, it's gonna be real in the season. I'll be looking for cooperation in the next few days with Reykjavík, Fax, and SSH, to implement and examine the two options proposed by the work force on Sunwater. When it is available, and an agreement with stakeholders, I see no basis for starting that project so that it can become reality at that time. What's the effect here on the Sun path? It will facilitate the availability of those from Western and northern countries into the capital area by shortening the distance and travel time, thereby strengthening the construction area of the capital area and making it easier for the inhabitants of Avlinai and Citynes to attend work or school every day. It will also shorten the transport routes from Western and Northern countries, and, of course, the other way too, even of Kjalarnes. She will also move this move from passing through Mosfellstown. [[The president calls.]] Finally, it will connect Western and Northern countries with the Cheflavour Airport on the Rhine Way so that the effects within the capital area are primarily by means of a new link to the western city as a relief of traffic pressure from other sources, such as the Golden Bridge and the Aarhus River, and so would be a more welcome addition to the city's immediate leaving, as a real way of flight. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u36	A respectable president. Thank you for the discussion here. I thought it was the best. Rather, the secretary of transportation will take a gentle approach when the minister said that there are things that are unclear in this agreement that I choose to call a declaration of will. More and less everything that matters is unclear unless the basic cost of the government, 105 billion of 120. Although the ideas on the payment of a part of it are presented, it is clear from the entire discussion after the case opened up to the State and the state funds offered to sell government property or whatever it may be to complete the budget, making the cost change of 105 billion by 15 percent. It is in very different proportions than what people see in general when it comes to public transportation, wherever the country looks. It is special to look at and hear about the fact that the Feldland will become a special factor in the funding of this project. It is only a few months since this defense, protecting that the Landspians were built at the present, enlarged place. Then, after 20 years, they were planning to build a new hospital. Now aims to sell both land sheets for a different kind of use. There's not a whole bridge in how you approach it. We look up such factors as whether to squeeze into the private car or to build extra roads. One and another from the government comes from the city authorities. These are the things that need to be answered, are huge, and are all we can offer is that we get answers before people begin to approach it as an object. There is so much unclear in this declaration of will that there is hardly anything that holds a hand except that a government fund is located at the core of the cost. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u37	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for this important discussion, which is so clearly applied to the future. We would also agree with the main points of this transport covenant, the purpose of the work. They're necessary. It is stated that at a stable pace, the project will take about 50 years, and therefore we must act with great force. It is extremely important to increase the share of public transportation and change travel habits, which is the key to dealing with climate change, and we can do so much better. It is well defined how half of these projects will be funded. The remainder is still in the mist, spoken of as special funding. What exactly does that mean? The distribution is everything. The government speaks of selling property at expense. All of this is unclear, and the common people call for more information on the government's transport plans. The agreement assumes that the organisation set up could collect the so-called speed and traffic expenditures that would become part of the changed government payment, which does not mean that the right way to finance the structure and implementation is by means of roads which, of course, add more payable groups and people who may be forced to live outside the Middle East. We are not sure that this is the right way, but we will discuss this in the near future at the council. We need to rethink the receipt in connection with energy exchange, and that is not unusual. From that point on, it can be financed more fairly. We need to attack more work, greater analysis, get specialists at the table, get people from all over the country to the table, not just the local communities in the capital area, and look at this in the overall context. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u38	Mr. President. Finally, at last, I'm going to say, we've reached the point that we've been getting together through a capital package, on transport issues in the capital area. Hv. paritaprevir The bridge of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir was comfortable with the past, and how has there been a lack of money in this area? I think we're gonna do what. A senator is excited to be able to stand here, and I thank you. A senator for this discussion, since we have spoken many times about it here. Actually, I think the highest. A minister of transportation, even though he is a political man, is exorbitant as well. Mr President, where are we? Six rural areas in the capital area have met for common vision in the transport sector at the state. It's a huge stage. V.E.G. The minister of the seminary may be proud to have come to this stage. Is your job done? No. That's not true. I'm sorry to hear anything. The head of the Environment and Transport Committee makes it appear that there are over 100 billion people in this area over the next 15 years. I don't think it's very pleasant to speak to the people of this area or our people here who work and work in this area. Are we going to tie ourselves in the details of what this will be like or the other thing, or maybe we're all going to come together, get on that way? Do we mean anything by talking about climate action? It would be fine if it were. The Conspiracy members answered that question. How will we deal with that challenge? Doesn't that have the growth of public transportation? Here we have a capital package, and more than half of the money that goes into it is going on public transportation and other active transportation. This is great news. Let's sit down and figure out how we're doing it best. [[The president calls.]] Let us, indeed, do so, but let us rejoice that we have come here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u39	A respectable president. I can welcome many things in this agreement, but it would be a big story if any version of the charges presented in this package were approved. I'm not exactly on a positive note in this regard. What I would like to ask specifically is whether the agreement will stand if the government is providing financial support in any way other than in the special funding of roadways. Suppose after the next election, another government that does not want to collect dues will be in violation of the agreement if the government provides the same financial support by other means? That's a simple question I want to know. Another question that I cut off in my history was a question that I found very interesting, the question of two transport plans. I have asked the members of all the national components that have established a meeting of the environment and transport committee on the transport agenda of the part of the country that they operate independently on their own transport programme. Of course, the same should apply in the capital area. It would be very normal if the national body knew about how much money they would expect in the next total UNECE policy programme, they could simply develop their transport programme in their area. Then we can compare the activities of the national transport programmes with the larger transport agenda of the Parliament and why there was a difference. Why should the council offer other projects than the national body suggests a convention in the context of local society? There is something that I would be interested in following, and I simply call for more consultation that would make up the arrangement, for in preparation for this agreement, and this covenant definitely did not have much agreement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u40	Mr. President. I would like to focus especially on the long and short - term effects of the transport contract on transport in the capital area. In the capital area, the aims of changing travel in 2040 are increasing from 20% to 30%, the share of the bus, including the city line, from 4% of all travel to 12%, and the share of road transport in a car is reduced from 76% to 56%. However, the overall picture of making such changes in tourism is that more people use public transportation, wheels, or walking, more cars drive until 2033 by 24%. If nothing is done, however, failure to meet people's wishes on the realistic possibility of changing travel habits, about the freedom to choose different types of transportation, will increase over the 14 years up to 40%. Those who, for some reason, choose to talk down efforts to increase their freedom when it comes to transportation and to cry out loud about how their family car is going, if I remember the latest slogan, are saying that if a good plan is going to be done, the car only goes up by 24% in the next 14 years. The movement of the transport sector remains, Mr. President, it is clear that the city and the rest of the city who travel through the streets will notice significant noises in the coming years during the construction process. It is simply inevitable and becomes a worthy task for concerned persons to be careful about doing well and to keep people's everyday lives at a minimum, including the least of them. with good information flows and transparency, and most important, by keeping time schedules. Here I am talking about both the responsibility of the government and the state. These members and their institutions need to work together to ensure the interests of the public of the country and work, those who run businesses and care for services, the interests of others who are relevant to as well as to the tourists. [[The president calls.]] This is a great responsibility that is necessary for us to live up to.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u41	A respectable president. A story called history is endless. She was filmed. Here we have another history, the transport plan of the capital area. It's also made a movie, a super-cool voice put underneath, and a shiny picture of how we're going to solve this. Are we supposed to believe this? Not me. I moved to Hafnarfjördur nearly 35 years ago and began to consider a building. Then I saw that the road was to be built above. I thought, "Wow, cool. When's he coming? He'll be here in a minute, I was told. I really liked that. Then I decided not to build, and time went by, and I looked at Vellina, and I moved there. Then I went to check the surface road. The traffic had begun to block up. He's on the agenda, isn't he? Yes, he's on his way, I've been told. But it's been 35 years, and he's nowhere. It's part of the story forever. It has been blown off because the parklike town has destroyed the road that was supposed to be useful to it. I have a solution. We just keep doing this, we're gonna drill up to Garville, and we're gonna figure this out by hooking us up to the Breedholt Road. I've been around Europe, and I think we have a world record in that the capital area has the only rural society that requires that you go through all your societies before you get to the west, except one, Seltananes. I think it's just forgotten to set the road there. We're always dealing with weird things. I have no faith that we will resolve this, but I sincerely hope that we will accept and find some solution in this matter, because otherwise this will be our legacy, another endless story. Maybe we could make a very good movie about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u42	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Haraldsdóttir for starting this discussion about transportation. It is important for us to discuss this important sect frequently and safely. I also rejoice that this is the beginning of a cooperative treaty to further transport in the capital area as well as in the whole country. I feel that this has been a lack of the attention of the council and of the financiership over the past few years, and therefore I rejoice that there are solutions to finding ways to continue a wide variety of transport process. They must be varied and useful to all. I think it's important to learn that there is an agreement to transport so that there will be a different transport river through the capital area, that there are priorities and so forth, so that people can get between their communities faster and through the capital. I also want to state that this treaty is not a business on public transportation. It is important that you do so. There are many good things in the covenant that are worth mentioning and that could show its effect very quickly. The effect can be reached very quickly if both parties stick to their commitments. That's where I'd like to first mention the light control. A common light control system is spoken of in the capital area. That's why I want to ask the highest. The secretary of transportation whether there is anything in the concern I hear with my local community in the capital area, that Reykjavíkurburg is taking steps in its light management that can delay the overall light control of the entire capital area. It's not good if you're going to work in your own corner right away, but not all of you are going to get a better light control with the Vega and the countryside. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u43	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, this discussion of the transport agreement on the capital area and the highest. Minister for his entry. There is reason to celebrate this momentous event. I'd like to mention two things in this context, one of which is the rapid implementation for which there is a need and to perform in 15 years what might be taken 50 years by the traditional order of action and funding. However, the agreement in this agreement with the State, which is not default, may be most significant when it comes to financing that the Treaty does not specifically call for extra charges on driving or driving beyond the changes that are inevitable in the overall payment of the road system. It's important to keep this up. We advanceers in the Southwestern district have concluded about the covenant. The Qualified Assembly welcomed, including operation on transportation. Of course, we were thrilled with our highest joy. A secretary of transportation, and we welcome this ambitious covenant. There is a number of important projects, including Acceleration of Eaglenes Road Finalways and Breinholtways Then, during the first period, there is a bridgeed road between the Bjords and the Westland Road, a revised policy of transportation, as well as the accelerated implementation at the Rhine Way, to name something, as well as an increase in funding for implementation on the Rhine Way of Alephunes to phone the morning at the Hallway in Hafnarfjörður. These measures will increase traffic security, as well as contribute to the overall package, such as the highest. Ministers went over, facilitated, more efficient, more efficient transport, work on climate targets, and reduced emissions by public transport, the construction of cycle and footpaths, and the implementation of tourism development. [[The president calls.]] I have to say at the end, most respectable President, it's time for the Sun path to become a reality.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u44	A respectable president. Happily, in this declaration of will, there are some good things that I look primarily to the major projects of the capital's founding system. This is part of the capital system, which has been run along in response to the 2012 agreement and has caused far too slow to improve the flow within the capital area. I kind of have to come up with something that's wrong. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason mentioned just before and directed a inquiry to the highest level. Secretary of transportation. I received ears earlier today that it was the case that Reykjavíkurburg had begun on its own invitation to light control. This could cause the results possible from a joint light control on the basis of this declaration of will not be reached until later or might be less than it might have been. If it is possible to achieve at least The increase in flow with improved light control is the procedure to be taken immediately. The missing answers are quite many as well as the pieces that will be shown in this picture. In the last seven years, I think it has been set up about 7 billion in Bus where there was going to be a significant success in the percentage of travel in the capital area. It's good if the number isn't two decimals, but the contract was up to 1 billion a year. [[Up front.]] This will be a very expensive course if we are going to take it, without knowing where we're going to land the case, we're going to turn it into five dozen billion in an unexploded case like this. [[The president calls.]] I demand that we see better in the country before it's broken into stone.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u45	Mr. President. Some 63% of Icelanders live in the capital area, 1% of the land's area. If we then expand the area into the big capital area, we turn from the White River to the White River east of the mountain, there are nearly 80% of the people in that area. This situation is globally unique, so it is not appropriate to say that Iceland is a widely distributed country. Iceland is, in fact, one of the greatest city states in the world. We are in the 5th world with regard to this, and Iceland is next to such countries as Singapore, Kuwait, Bahrain, Katar, Bahamas. Of course, infrastructure, such as transportation, has to be around the country, but it also needs to take into account the fact that 80% of the people live on the very narrow corner of the country. Of course, it is a very positive step in that direction, and the structure of public transport, such as the city line, is just as important. One of the greatest increases in pay is making it possible for people to have only one car or in some cases without a car. One car costs about two monthly wages a year, and getting rid of this car would result in two months'wages. For two cars, it is four months' wages. Do we really want to work for our cars for four months a year? Then, of course, there are significant environmental impacts from automobiles, but climates are the subject and will remain in our lifetime. [[The president calls.]] We cannot afford to slow down in transport, whether the economy or the environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u46	Mr. President. There is good reason to celebrate the agreement that we are having here, and it was between the state and six rural societys in the capital area on the development of transport infrastructure and public transportation in the capital area to the next 15 years. I have to admit that I personally waited a while for the agreement, but I believe that the overall emphasis on the progress of environmental transport and the confirmation of the will of all concerned partners to make a commitment to environmental transport is extremely good. As we know, nearly 50 billion people are to enter a city line and expand their public transportation during the season. 8.2 billion are expected to increase the number of bicycle footpaths and footpaths, hiking, and subpassing. This commitment is incredibly important, and it is extremely good and necessary. While some of us would like to see more money on public transportation to reduce air pollution and to be more effective at our international commitments when it comes to reducing emissions, it is vital that certain amounts of money be fixed to these types of transportation. And although some of us would like to see more drastic measures to reduce the traffic of the private car, not paying its streets with larger streets, better flows, and more miseries found in this covenant, the Treaty is a covenant as presented in the discussion of an enormously important means of promoting public transportation more and faster, in the battle against climate change and for better quality of life in the form of my gliders. I reiterate my wish to the highest. Minister on public transportation plan, and furthermore, I'd like to bring it up as a matter of course. paritaprevir The spirit of Haraldsdóttir's daughter asks, "Is it reasonable for the future to be looked forward to having two transport plans, one on the other side of the capital and the other on the other side of the country? " [[The president calls.]] I support these ideas. A senator to have a specific transport plan for the capital area, estimated to have about 75 Tori85% of all traffic in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] We advisors agree on this and, however, on the top. Ministers have described their opposition to these ideas, I have hoped that a minister will turn from that path and join ushv. þm. The spirit of Harald's daughter in these ideas. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u47	The president asks why. Councilmen respecting deadlines. They're known.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u48	A respectable president. One of the things people boast about in this agreement is that these projects are being carried out in 15 years instead of 50. I'm sorry, but it's just an ambition to have planned to finish it in 50 years at first. There is nothing to boast about going on projects that pay themselves up, just because of traffic security. Let's just drop themontotus, please. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on one more thing: Where will the harbor be moved if a bridge is made over the Canal? Finally, I would like to discuss just yet another transport plan, not just the transport programmes of the parts of the country, which I think are a very good addition, although it is not necessarily discussed individually at the council, as it is only in the overall co-ordination programme. I feel that there is a lack of transport plan for other routes; bicycle riding, walking, and just public transportation. I think their space in the coming years will be growing much more than is expected in this agreement and the transport strategy we have in front of us. I believe that the part of a transport program is underestimated greatly in terms of the technological development we see and the popularity of various other methods of transportation. I simply call for a good part of a revised transport program to deal with the possibility of a different kind of travel but only with the private car in that matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u49	Mr. President. There has been a number of interesting discussions. In terms of the linking between the transport contract and the transport plan, the nature of the situation according to the state has to stick to the budget. In view of the surrogacy that undeniably took place by means of financing and the priorities of projects in the history of that government, it would be a good reason to worry about that matter, but I intend to be optimistic and to believe that this will work out. What matters most is the same, as it has been said in various languages, and this discussion will without doubt and rightly receive the support of both wings again when it comes to a discussion of a new program of transportation at the Assembly Hall and during conquistancy. That discussion is to be expected in the weeks ahead. In all rural areas in the capital area, the Convention supports the restoration of transport. That support has come from our emphasis on the environment, including green transport, and our emphasis on freedom. Building up different transports, focusing on public transport by bicycle and footpaths in addition to automobile transportation, is simply giving people real freedom to choose your own transportation. The real freedom of transportation is not the fact that everyone is to drive on private cars and that everyone should simply contribute to it. On the contrary, the thing we should give up is forethought. We are doing so by means of this transportation covenant, and that is well done. Finally, I would like to use this opportunity to commend the team of my partner in the capital area in these matters. They have taken the lead in focusing on green transport. The Kingdom is now on board, so we must celebrate. Some self - denialists and guardians will remain, more fortunately in their great memory, even in their own category, so I take an example of the Council of Independence, who voted against this treaty in Reykjavík, at the end of his payment in those rural areas in the area where the independent people have taken the lead. But, fortunately, it is this harbor, and I look forward to watching the next one. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u50	A respectable president. We are talking about a road program in the capital area, history without end. What further confirms that it will be one more story without end is the Way of Swimming. In fact, a secretary of the march had doubts about her, and during the season, he spoke out in a word - for - word way. He does not believe in its reality. [[Up front.]] I understand that because we have not yet received an answer to simple questions that I have already asked. I'm going to ask a simple question: What are we going to do with 50,000 cars when a road is set in parktown and in Hafnarfjörður? Should they go through Hafnarfjörður? Where are they going? Another even worse issue will be when we put a major deckway on it. There are over 100,000 cars there. What should we do with them? Where do you send them? Don't you think we're gonna have to get out of Daffy before? Must we not be finished with our higher road? [[Top of the hall, take the bus.]] Or put everybody in a bus. That would be a great solution. [[Up front.]] We had a trip earlier, but I don't think forcing people in bus transport will ever work out. That's why I say we have to figure out a solution, and it's to make sure traffic goes smooth, and we also make sure that traffic doesn't have to go through all rural areas just to get to the west if you come from Keflavík. It's ridiculous, and it's a disgrace to us. That we've been arguing about this for 40 to50 years and have no solutions shows that we're not solution and we're not going to be. That's why the question is, Is it forcing people to pack their own private car? It seems that there is, both because there seems to be a big issue of doubt that the waterway is being made and that there seems to be a question about how to solve all this traffic benefits. Nobody seems to have a solution. Just the same old story forever.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u51	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answers and the what. Parliamentaries who have participated in the discussion. I have to start by saying that I think the very solution is in the capital contract. That's the solution. I'm glad to hear what this agreement is all about because I think it's important. I'm also happy to hear the highest. Ministers are sure to talk about the Sunway. It is important and must be realized. V.E.G. Ministers spoke of domestic, efficient, efficient, and safe transport. It also suggested that other solutions are needed in urban areas, e.g. Applicating solutions. It is important for us to realize that planning transportation is anything but planning transportation somewhere in the country. You need to take into account that people live here and that this is a city community. It is also vital that we keep in mind that we are looking for the future. In the capital area, the population will increase by 70,000 people until 2040. It's a whole Hafnarfjörður and Kópavogur, plus half of Gardún. We are not even talking about the situation today but, as it will be in the year 2040, it is better that we have had some success in changing travel habits by improving our public transportation activities. I want to challenge it. The Environment and Transport Committee to investigate the public transport, since it was kind of sad to listen to an ancient man. A number of committees, such as public transportation, would be an extra share in all of this. He talked about 4%. When discussing transport matters in the capital area, we do well to keep in mind that we are primarily considering rush hour. That's where the problems exist. Then there is no 4% use in the bus but nearly 30 to40% in public transportation. That is what counts and what we should watch. Other than that, I want to thank you very much for the discussion and to overemprate the importance of working with my rural society. The community is far more familiar with this matter. They have this on their table every day. [[The president calls.]] I'm celebrating this initiative and I'm at the highest rate. Ministers continue in the work to ensure that these projects will be realized on time. It is also necessary for rural society to take it to heart and prepare well for the project. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u52	A respectable president. Thanks again. paritaprevir Bryndís's daughter's Haraldsdóttir for starting this discussion and members of Congress for giving a good impression and, in most cases, a positive one. In fact, I can't understand that men don't agree more. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, Otttar's son Proppér, when he says, " Finally, at last. " I can honestly say that the minister is proud to have achieved all the rural areas united in achieving this transport contract. I thought it was the second speech. The head of the environment and transport committee will be better than the first because there was not a full bridge in the first, especially in the light of what he said all last winter. What we are facing is accomplished for about 120 billion and for the whole country by some 190 billion. The fact is that the highways in the capital area are 30 to40% of the total traffic across the country. We need to think a lot bigger than just about the capital area, but today we're discussing how we're gonna hold it. We're one nation in this country in my mind, and that's why there won't be two transport plans. She'll be alone. But we had to deal with this problem specifically. As for the light control mentioned here, I have to say exactly as it is, I don't understand where that discussion comes from. The roads and rural communities in the capital area, SSH, have worked together to extend an invitation, have had analysis work, exactly in the spirit of this covenant, which all agree to take out the brain, the operating system in the light control. That doesn't mean that at the same time, you don't have to build a lamp post and set up sensors. You can't confuse it. I don't understand how such discussions fell into this room. [[The president calls.]] There's one thing I want to end. [[The president calls.]] Here's a plan, a vision, a goal. Of course, not all of us have answers as we set out with visions and goals. [[The president calls.]] We'll take one or two years to get this done. And your faith will grow, boy. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u53	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for quick response to request for this particular discussion. Yesterday we received reports that a woman who was nearly 36 weeks pregnant was sheltered by a plane against the advice of a professional from the Mother's Hospital and her husband and a two - year - old. Common sense says she shouldn't have flown. It would hardly take a doctor's proof to figure that out. Still, she was sent on a 19 - hour journey and three flights. It is now apparent that the woman was not to be sent out. Last night, the chairman of the National Institute of Iceland told us that it did not matter whether she had given the child here or not to her position as a trustee. Why all the overfors? The surgeon general believes it's serious and has said, by permission of the president: It is in nature that there is a woman who is very far along. She is at risk and in a more delicate position, both physically and socially, but this aspect also needs to be kept in mind. I know that doctors at the hospital had this in mind and that they bring their advice, which is not being followed. True, we have a warrant for sending alien residents out of our land, but it is just as clear that they also have the authority not to do so. I know it's the highest. While it is difficult for a minister to express himself about unique matters that are heard under it, it can be discussed by means of the procedure, policy, and the values involved in these matters. Although the case of a pregnant woman is the cause of this discussion, her case is just another manifestation of inhuman treatment by immigrants. Children who have lived here a great deal of their life or for the rest of their lives are torn from schools and schools and sent to a country they have a relationship with but do not know. People who have stayed here and been actively involved in the community are dismissed. Mr. President. So here you will ask, "How are the whole group of compromises, policy, and values being maintained? ' High-level party. For a long time, a minister has held these issues to himself. Rules are human work. If it leads to an inhuman conclusion, then at least To have that reputation to say, let's change the rules. In the days of former justice minister, laws and regulations were hardened, and this has not been cleared. Is that recently appointed the highest? Ministers to change the alien law towards greater humanity, not just an efficient system that sometimes forgets that there are human beings? Mr. President. ▪ When the UNICEF and the Red Cross ask us to listen, there is good reason to listen, listen, and wonder if we are following laws that should be based on humanitarianness in the way we should do... It's a quote to the highest. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, at the council on September 27, 2017, in a discussion of foreigners. Today's Red Cross declaration has been made.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: It's the same thing as 2 st. law on foreigners is the objective of the law. to ensure humanitarian management of foreign affairs by the government. The treatment of the family did not reflect the objective of the Red Cross for humanity. [[The president calls.]] I must ask, Where is human in this system of things? What exactly does the government intend for?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u54	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Steindór Valdímdar's Valdimarsson for bringing up this suit. At the same time, I want to assure you that it is my sincere desire to discuss the perplexing debate at the council on this delicate matter party. It is important to have balanced, general, and objective discussions. However, the fact is that often it is the matter of individuality that finds its way into the media that will lead to a general debate, such as the driving force. A senator referred to him. Although I cannot discuss the matter materially rather than other unique matters, I am human as well as others, and the matter naturally deals with me as with others. For a long time, the language of foreigners and candidates for international protection has been focused on the subject. In view of the development of the foreigners in the last ten years, it is clear that there have been efforts to improve the work of order and implementation in many ways and many progressive steps in behalf of the party, ending all other conditions today but only ten years ago. The nature of this class, however, calls for a regular review because the subject is people and their lives. It is only reasonable and reasonable for us to ask ourselves regularly where we can go. Are we doing well enough, or is there something that needs to be done in another way? Is the system thus built up to serve those to whom it is to serve? Are we doing the right thing? For the very reason that the case is fragile, the group was made with the arrival of a transverse body of members of Congress. Their goal is to ensure humane and efficient management by the government in the affairs of foreigners here on earth. I must, however, allow myself to put a question mark on the fact that the members of Congress are in the hands and feet and striving to condemn the whole system, a system created by members of Congress, whenever a matter can be done better. I'm afraid we won't be able to do much better when it comes to this group of subjects, if that's the case. Because of what? A senator specifically mentions this in my opinion of humanity and the good and effective handling of applications for global protection. It is humane not to have to wait long in uncertainty and not get any answers. I also want to make an annual decision that our system provides a considerable number of candidates with international protection on the land and their number is increasing. When people come to the country and apply for international protection, they go into a system adopted by the Senate. Initially, all applications are at zero point, all applications are checked, and it is humane that all applications are performed individually. If the conclusion is that a person has the right to protect himself, the case should be handled, for example. in priority treatments as well as if it is clear that protection will not be provided. Such priorities take today for the benefit of all persons, with a short period of uncertainty. Experience shows that those who are protected after such short-term treatment are also more aggressive in Icelandic society. Of those who are not protected, e.g. cases from secure nationalities, such as the United States, Japan, and Albania, that are often exposed to denial, although all cases are taken by individuals, countries where basic human rights are respected. The name of the discussion turns to immigrants who hear under the Department of Social Affairs, but perhaps we are primarily discussing the security system and our security system, and we can be sure that it is also right to focus on jobs and conditions. However, there is another discussion that is so closely related to this and must, of course, be taken as well. Today's procedures are based on alien laws requiring expulsion from the U.S. Marshal's supporting forces in the face of a well - planned decision. There are exceptions, such as croaks. A senator mentioned, where a temporary suspension for health reasons can be delayed. The physician's proof of the travel is then obtained, and if there is a possibility of a transfer, his safety is put at risk. There are a number of examples, both in the case of pregnant women and of individuals suffering from illness. The certificate of health care needs to be made clear that the person is not able to travel, and I refer to the person who has been appointed director of the National Institutes of Iceland who has provided a unique case and the assessment there, but who is pleased to have a surgeon and Foreign Institute for this procedure because the individual must be able to have a personal conversation with a physician without anyone being told about it and that information will not be provided from medical records. [[The president calls.]] I think members of Congress can agree that this group is large. We need to secure the purpose of the law of humanitarianity and efficiency, and I hope to have a good conversation with the Senate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u55	V.E.G. President. First, I want to thank you for this discussion here today. The challenge we face is not simple, and it is simple to consider the entire process. There's been a violation of the system, but I still can't pass judgment on whether it's a foreign agency, a state police officer or a state police officer. Perhaps these institutions need to coordinate a procedure, even to bring more members into that structure, such as. Those health authorities who have a direct approach to the National Institute of Iceland, but I can't help but see that all these parties are ready to take action. I'd also like to say that mine always knows the need to examine procedures and methods and there are many questions that arise in this particular relationship. One of them turns to the right to publish a so - called 48 - hour rule, as the Norwegians do, with the goal of it and only with the goal of sending messages to those who make use of people's circumstances only. Of course, saying that we should accept all those in need of protection, and we must speed up a trial as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u56	A respectable president. You may well begin by saying that Icelandic alien laws are not open. If people are outside the EEA, whether they want to move to the country because of school, work, love, or run from war and disaster. The Icelandic law environment has never welcomed that person. In 2016, transverse alien laws adopted that improved the situation to make it clearer, but they did little to open the system or close it away from what was available. They are better foundation than materially, they are similar to the situation in the past. It is always a conflict between humanity and efficiency, which is often associated with refugees'evadings. The strain came, for example. until April 2017, when people from the so - called secure ethnic states and apparently unfounded applications, as they call, no longer enjoyed the security of the court that a court order for the jury has delayed their deportation. There, the wheels were anointed with the deportation machine in this hall. The same was to be done with the resurgence of vulnerable groups to Greece this spring, but no recommendation could be made. Since then, it has been difficult to interpret when a person is particularly sensitive, but this has not been done here in this room but by the Regulation of the Minister of Justice, especially in 2018. That is why we cannot say that yesterday's news is surprising. It's simply been uploaded into the system to excommunication of a cassician woman who still has a lawsuit in a lawsuit is just part of the system that has been built here. [[The president calls.]] I have hoped that the New Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs, which the Minister has announced will be arranged in the days ahead, along with the issues it brings here to the council and the Regulation changes that the Minister will make, will move us toward humanity, not from it as has been the last step. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u57	Mr. President. The government of the left green, independent party and forwarding party is two years old. Two years, too, since the presidents of the political parties decided to make the alien administration human, taking special note of children and people in a more delicate position. It's been two years and nothing's happened. In two years, three ministers have taken the lawsuit. True, the first did appoint a parapolitic committee that did not produce anything. Another proposed a change in the law of foreigners for the worse, and the third solved the former committee and now announces the exact same committee again. Government policy is simply inhumane. Also, two years have passed since a little boy came into the world. He was picked up by police last night, along with his pregnant mother and father. The two - year - old boy looked up at his mother in an upset state. She went up to the hospital and was in an investigation under the blue lights of the police. Now they're gone. Mr. President. Can we not show a little more empathy? We may not be able to welcome everyone who comes here, but at least we can. creating a system that is more reasonable and humanable, a system where sensitive individuals and especially children will benefit from the doubt. Why do we need to move pregnant women, small children, and disabled people out of the country repeatedly without proper treatment? We cannot hide behind the laws that we set for ourselves or the systems we created ourselves. Therefore, I request that the presidents, ministers, and members of the council now keep up with the promise to change the foreigners so that they become more human.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u58	A respectable president. It is always good for us to discuss the affairs of immigrants, and I want to thank the advert and the highest. Minister for that opportunity. We can then wonder where we want to stand and where we want to go. It has been heard from this chair and in the media that yesterday the issue in the dough is the responsibility of the current government policies on immigrants. I'm referring such comments to my father's house, but it's good to take the conversation. Indeed, the number of people here applying for international protection has increased. By 2018, there were 160, but this year we are up to 216. The government covenant says that this should be addressed and emphasized as the basis for humanitarian and international commitments and the practical handling of applications for international protection. In addition, there will be loyal cooperation in the service and assistance of those who receive such protection. The government covenant also speaks of setting up a transnational political commission to evaluate the procedure and the following events reevaluate it. Since this committee has not been organized, it has not begun. That's where we have to dress up and put it together so that she can get to work. A respectable president. Hospitality is common to us Icelanders. We make rules and laws, and we want them to be followed. But human kindness and hospitality need not be passed on. When handling rules and laws, we should be guided by humanity. You can't give her a discount. This is true of all of us as handlers of foreign languages.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u59	A respectable president. During an unprepared question period earlier today, I spoke to the highest court. The Minister of Justice for Álagan Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörn's daughter on the case of the pregnant woman who was expelled from the country. I wished she would put herself in her shoes. I asked if the highest. A minister would feel that this case had been handled with caution. What I was really looking for was who to enjoy the doubt. Is it working the system to the highest. A minister will be so frequent, or will he greet pregnant women who are on the way to a dangerous walk? Who will receive the benefit of the doubt? It's the ultimate system. Minister trying to pin the entire Senate? I don't think so. It is very clear in the law of foreigners that individuals in a particularly delicate position have various rights, including The right to the protection of mothers. And it can't be done, as it was at the highest. Ministers, Foreign Institutes and State Marshals make it a point to hide behind the strong recommendation of a midwives that it had trouble with long flights that it was not clear enough to send them for a trip of 19 hours. That's what I call a complete discount. It's just a little ignominious. I think every man can understand that a 19-hour journey can be called a long flight. That is why I ask again, " Who will enjoy the doubt? ' Is it a pregnant woman or a rotten system?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u60	A respectable president. We're discussing something very sensitive and boring. Sadly, we have to say, at the moment, that we have an amazing system. We have a system in which we receive the hostilities and other things that receive the trustees. There we have two completely different systems, one that accepts and protects people, builds them up, gives them housing, rights, and other things. It's the cryonics system. Then we have a security system where we give people the right to live in the country but have nothing to support it, no plans to see that these people can live with dignity, no more than others in the less fortunate society. We have such an amazing system that we have a population reduction system in order to give even the refugees the right to live in this country, but they don't get rights. They may be in the years when they can work for 10 to520 years, but they will have just a fraction of the rights, e.g. pensions enjoyed by others. We are often judging people to survive perhaps 60,000,700,000 dollars. I say for myself, if we have these laws and regulations, we should change them. We're supposed to take this option and we're supposed to jump into this system. Unfortunately, this system has been built this way, and it is our work here at the council. We built this system up--not I, of course, but those who were before. I've never been in a government, and I don't know what it's like, but this system has been built up like this for decades. This is what we're experiencing today, so if we don't like the system, there's more to it at the Council that can change it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u61	Mr. President. The issues that led us to stand here and discuss immigrants'affairs today are a clear example of how not to win things, a clear example of how human humanity is let down, how human beings are forgotten. There is no need to consult a doctor's license or to reflect on the technical tactics of the police, the Foreign Office or the Ministry in this context. Whoever they want to see is facing it. This, however, also calls attention to something else. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson arrived in a talk earlier, perhaps at the very root of the problem we face in immigrants: Why do so large a group of people come here from countries we define as secure countries and apply for international protection? This is because along with what we opened our work market to people in the European Economic Area, we cut off the work market from everyone else. The number of people who have moved, worked, and raised children who have grown up, who came to this country at the time because they had some opportunity to do so, from countries that were out of common markets at that time. There is no way for groups such as Albania and other countries today. This is known to all people who win even. to get here to the country of experts. It is a very complex, difficult, and complicated process and is a system that violates the rights of individuals, since it puts immigrants from these countries in a very delicate position toward employers who hold employment permits because of the way we've underlined our labour markets, how our borders are really fortified and closed. That should also be true of us. We could easily change the exact problem here, that there are people here applying for asylums that should easily be able to apply for a job permit but can't afford a chance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u62	Mr. President. I want to thank you for the perfunctory and initial discussion that has taken place today, at least under this part of the program. In fact, you could have expected another tone, considering the main event. I don't think there's any reason to talk about this with the class of class that happened at the outset. We're enforcing a law which, if I recall correctly, 46 members of Congress agreed to vote, and that is no further than June 2016. I don't think that's about that, at least. Not in general, that Albania, in this case, has a place in the list of what we call a secure state. There is a Constitutional democracy, Albania is an international agreement on civil and political rights, the United Nations Convention on torture and other cruel, inhuman or demeaning treatment and human rights, international and domestic, work there without barriers. This is undisputed, so the dismissal itself is hardly controversial. It was not that some sort of medical decision would arise that a woman could not travel. The second most frequently referred medical testimony says that the journey might be difficult for her, that she has musculoskeletal pain, and so on. But what does that mean in this context? [[The president calls.]] Does this mean that it is difficult or uncomfortable, or does it mean it is dangerous? [[The president calls.]] There can be a debate about that. If we want to have a different procedure for these objects, but it seems here that the procedure, which is perfectly on the basis of the law, we need to discuss it. But the gas story of the conversation as it was at the beginning is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u63	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank you for the discussion that's going on here. It is important and of good things. I've thought there was something missing in the discussion here today. That's the child's right. We discussed much of the rights of unborn children during the last assembly when a case related to a so - called break or abortion was discussed. I don't want to go out there discussing this unique matter as such, but it's gotta be taken into account that it really matters how long the individual has been in this country. Whether he has been here for years or even within a month is important. Of course, if time is short, I must admit that there must be a bit of a mother's responsibility in that case, because it is now that Albania is better off in the countryside when it comes to the life of newborn babies. The baby's death, fortunately, is not hair. I just looked at a few examples. Fortunately, he's with the lowest we know, two children in 1,000. Germany is now in just four, Albanian in over eight, India in 32, so bad birth services were not to be fled or something like that. So I think, of course, it's delicate to discuss each subject individually, to see how the pot is finished. And that's where I think we have to look so that the child's rights have not been discussed today, although he certainly belongs in this discussion - although there are members of Congress who always consider a child's rights to be replaced by a mother's rights. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u64	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying what I want to say. Parliaments who have infiltrated Iceland are actually a very closed country for those who come from a different source from the European Economic Area. This, on its own, is part of the pressures on our security system, which is absolutely unnecessary because, as the world is today, we need a security system that can really deal with those who are fleeing a terrible state of war or climate change or other extreme conditions in their own countries, and we really need to think that there is a good system in the countries to which they come. There is, of course, a general point that does not directly address what is discussed, but it really matters. I've found in this discussion that most of us are, if not all, agree that we want a humanized system here. I think that's a very important exit point. I also think we all know in this room that the general rule, which we generally use in our lives, is that women who are going very far don't usually fly under normal circumstances. But that's what happened here yesterday. Therefore, it is important for me to review procedures and procedures, especially health information, which will guide the interpretation of the individual's wishes rather than some efficiency. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u65	Mr. President. I'd so much like to ask the Icelandic government to apologize for sending a woman in her 36th week of pregnancy away with a two - year - old in the middle of the night, acknowledging that a woman in high - risk pregnancy was made a mistake during her 19 - hour journey with a number of internationals with significant air pressure changes, along with her two - year - old child. I would also like to see the Icelandic government admit that failure has caused an old certificate to be given over a new proof of the woman's condition and her flying skills. It's clear to me that policy on escape issues has been severed by the Independence Party at the Ministry. The minister of Independence Party has given clear instructions to the government on the contrary to a law that states that it should be done in a humanitarian way. The members of the Independence Party, for example, have given clear instructions to governments by means of regulations that have severely imposed access to refugees, people in search of protection, e.g. when it comes to evaluating people in a more sensitive position. Yes, we have unique cases in the media, but we are being distracted by extraordinary matters, awakened here, fed people, who have no need to fear for our lives every day. I'm glad we wake up, and I'm glad we're able to awaken the Minister of the government from their slumber. But I will not agree that I will be blamed for this, that the people of the council will be blamed for this, because the law allows for the humane treatment of pregnant women in the last half of their pregnancy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u66	V.E.G. President. The immigrants are a variety of groups who come here for various reasons, such as education, working, family ties, or being refugees. In Iceland, immigrants have a short story, as the figures say, and behind the numbers is real people. Our systems have had to cope with significant changes in short periods of time and may not be able to communicate. Systems directly available to immigrants and refugees, health systems, social services, and others The percentage of immigrants in Iceland has never been higher than that in 2018 was immigrants by 13% of the population, and these people are a key factor in Iceland's economic growth. Last year, Haggis published a study on the status of immigrants in Iceland, and I would like to encourage the Senate to study these findings. It is clear that we can do so much better to enable this group in our community to expand our participation. You see, there are so many things we, ordinary Icelanders, can learn from people with experience, background, thinking, and other cultures. Most of us must agree that different cultural currents enrich our culture and make us a better society. However, it is unfair for us here to put ourselves in the position of refugees, people seeking a better life, and the less we should strike political cones because of the terrible circumstances in people's lives. You see, it's the reaction that matters. Which of us will we stand here to get into the media or to suggest changes in a system that truly needs a review? Let our culture of politicians improve what is truly needed, and let us rejoice that so far people want to come, stay, live, have children, learn, and live. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna has hit her head on a faulty system: Who enjoys the doubt in the system? [[The president calls.]] That's right. And like a cot. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir put it: Kurteisi and fellow feeling will not be written in law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u67	A respectable president. V.E.G. A minister called for a more objective discussion of refugees'affairs about this delicate group of subjects. So here the number of lovers of trust has increased. That's not true. They're getting smaller now. It's not demeaning, either on the part of a minister or on the other hand. A member of the Independence Party, Páll Magnússon, blames the entire Council for this dreadful act. The General took into account a special protection for candidates in a particularly delicate position and there included pregnant women. This was done by the General. It is not difficult to hide behind the fact that midwives were not clear enough that it would not be good to send a woman into a dangerous walk, gone 36 weeks, to a long flight. Did they not have mouths, those officers waiting outside the women's ward with blue lights? Would they not have asked if the woman's interests and her rights were in place, as the appointed director of the National Institute of Iceland has claimed, if the men with blue lights had not been aware of the testimony whether she had health for flight or not? Would they not have prayed for an explanation if her interests had actually been put first, if she was to enjoy the doubt rather than the effectiveness of the system? If we really care for the health and life of pregnant women and their unborn children to enjoy the doubt, we cannot say that this has been the case with caution. [[The president calls.]] It's a question the secretary refuses to answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u68	Mr. President. This discussion should be backed up. In many respects, she was fine. Yet, there were a number of subjects in some debates. Councilmen to whom I didn't consider a contribution to a verbal discussion, so I don't make it strong. The other thing, I have to say, I was quite disappointed in the highest degree. Ministers of justice, such as the executives, mainly in technical defense, spoke of policy, values, and plans. What's the top course? Minister to join this suit? There was nothing about it, just technology; proof, not proof, blurred certicates, probationary period 4 breakdown11 days. True, this family spent a month in the country, so that was not the case. The point is that there has been a targeted effort to narrow and tighten the system and prevent humanitarian acts from being used. That's not the will of the Generals. It has been the will of the highest order people. Minister of the Ministry. That's what matters. What's going to happen. Minister for? What does he want to change?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u69	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Councilmen for the discussion. Many of it could be even more specific discussions, leaving a number of things behind, as was evidently heard in speeches. Senators. I repeat at what? The advisor that the priorities of the government are very clear and displayed to form in the Declaration of Humanity and international commitments. That's how I go to the table in this Ministry. Emphasis is also placed on the good and effective handling of applications for global protection. It was only done that the conversation would not fit, it would be contrary to talking about humanity as a means of efficiency. So I disagree completely, I think it's incomprehensible unless there's no system here. We must agree that having people wait longer, whether the answer is to provide protection or not, is not human kindness. We can see this now that we have tried to make the system clearer and more effective for the people who have the right to protect us from being guided by the humanity of answering it within a few days. I think that's humane and from that point on, we have to ask: How should our system work for the money we put in it? How will we set priorities for people who come here who need protection? That's how we need to check the system. There are opportunities to do better, and of course I realize it. This too was about children and their special rights. It has been suggested that if they stay here for a long time, as if for ten months without decision, they will receive physical treatment. It's the right thing to try to explain it if the system is teaching that the answer has not been received. Then there was a panel committee that is important to review. [[The president calls.]] Of course, I was going to review a lot of other matters, but I'm going to take a closer look at evasion procedures for the case, which is why we're discussing it today. It is important that we be guided by human kindness and clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u70	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the change of various laws due to the cooperation of the European Economic Environment Agency on consumer protection on decks. 374, 330th case. The bill suggests that there will be changes in various consumer protection laws. The bill includes the induction of 9th and 10th paragraphs. Regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council No. 2017/2394 of December 12, 2017, on cooperation between national authorities responsible for enforcing consumer protection laws. The changes are aimed at ensuring that governments acting in accordance with the regulations set out by the Regulation have the authority to investigate and enforce as 9th. Brew, like 10th parr. The Regulation, requires. At the same time as the bill, another bill is presented, a bill for the cooperation of a government in the European Economic Area on consumer protection, which I further recommend that the controlled Regulation be introduced to the whole of its members in Icelandic right by a reference guide. The bill of what I recommend here contains suggestions for changing ten laws in the field of consumer protection regarding the implementation of seven law-made authorities. They're a travel agency, F.O.S., press committee, Drug Services, Navigator, Mail and Communications Office, and Group Control Agency. The minimum authority available for studies that the competent authority should have in accordance with the Regulation is the source of information collections, field reviews and tryouts. Minimum sources for advising are permission to agree to the provisional measures, reconciliation warrants, guidelines to stop the fracture, permission to stop the break-in in digital environments and fines. The legal authorities are already under law, but the bill suggests that they will be granted the documents that are missing because of the implementation of the Regulation. In view of the fact that some sources laid down in the Regulation can be burdensome, it is suggested that only the authorities can be used in matters pertaining to the consumer protection regulations of the regulations set out in the annex of Regulation. It is then suggested that consumers' sources be general, where the Agency conducts most of the legislation in the field of consumer protection and performs the role of a central contact agency. Information exchange in the Regulation is expected to be due to issues involving cross-border violations of consumer legislation. Therefore, in certain cases it is necessary to enact laws allowing such information to be passed to the competent authorities. The bill also provides suggestions for changing the surveillance of the Netostry based on financial and marketing surveillance legislation, No. 57/2005. It is suggested that a principle of reconciliation be adopted into the law into the north. The principle of this principle is that consumer practice should normally try to influence the companies by means of reconciliation and duties and generally try to resolve matters with an agreement of improvement or other commitments. Also, from the principle that the Navigator Lab should place general emphasis on informing firms about the law, their activities and good business practices and discussions with relevant organisations, companies and consumers to stop or prevent law violations. The aim is to provide an efficient use of the Agency's capital and human resources and to have a prophylaxis effect on the behaviour of an enterprise leading to a reduction in individual issues that would otherwise need to be taken up. In order to ensure such a project, the Agency is proposed to establish a new consumer setting and suggest that the Agency emphasis particularly on the issues most important to consumers. Because of the change, it is also suggested that the legal rights of those having legal interests be taken and the possibility to judge damages or due due to violations against the law. The source may, e.g. has been practical when the person with a legal interest has been complained to the Agency, but the case is not under investigation. The bill aims for similar surveillance of the consumer organisation to that recognized by the surveillance authorities in Iceland's neighboring countries and better meets the National Economic and Development Organization (OECD) criteria for the best management practices. A respectable president. After the discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The General and Education Committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u71	Mr. President. I recommend a bill on the cooperation of the government in the European Economic Area on consumer protection on deck. 375, 331. The bill suggests the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council No. 2017/2394, on cooperation between national authorities responsible for enforcing consumer protection laws and the breakdown of Regulation No. 2006/2004, a country with adaptations resulting from the decision of the joint EEA since June 2019 The Regulation replaces the earlier Regulation of the European Parliament and the Council on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the implementation of a law on consumer protection that was introduced into Icelandic rights by government cooperation in the European Economic Area on consumer protection, No. 56/2007. In the Regulation it is recommended that the cooperation and coordination of the activities of the Community in the European Economic Area, which are responsible for the implementation of laws in the field of consumer protection. The Regulation covers the European types as stated in the annex to Regulation, as it has been implemented into the Member State's home country. In all, there are 26 Europeans, which have to do with ten regional laws in the field of consumer protection. The protocol provides a system for cross-border assistance. Authorities may ask other Member States for information and follow-up measures to stop the offense against consumer protection laws. The bill then outlines the coherence of research and implementation for the so - called broad fractured and broad - scale violations of a Community network. The authorities are expected to report to each other when such a violation is suspected, exchange of information and compliance with measures. In accordance with the Regulation, it is mandatory to appoint the competent authority and the central network in each Member State responsible for the implementation of the Regulation. On the basis of the current law, the Icelandic government designated the National Institutes of consumers, the Food and Drug Administration, the Association and the Media Committee as the legal authority, as well as the National Social Relations Committee. In addition, if the bill is legal, it needs to be specified by the Post and Communications Office and the Association as a federal authority. Along with this bill, another bill is submitted which I recommended earlier. It is in accordance with the proposal of the bill to ensure that the competent authorities have minimal access to research and the implementation required in the Regulation, a bill for changing the law due to government cooperation in the EEA on consumer protection. A respectable president. After the discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The General and Education Committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u72	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize various legislations on the rights of law. The bill is the first part of an action program on a simple rule in my field of business at the Ministry of Employment and Development. The bill includes the execution of a number of government licences that are no longer considered necessary. This is how the bill suggests that the special registration of stores will be stopped, licenses for the sale of used vehicles will be removed, and industrial licenses will be suspended. It is also suggested that 16 legal groups be removed, which no longer have value, that shopping laws be otherwise simplified, and finally changed by the law of partnerships, allowing ministers to be handed over to give the rights to an emissary, on the grounds of the law. The permission proposed to be canceled is not necessary for public surveillance or for the normal functioning of the work they do according to society's needs. For this work there are other general and new laws that apply to all other employment and are much better qualified to ensure the objective public interests. Since the permits forces ordered to be removed are also in the countries we compare with us, they are not there for us. It involves increasing misunderstandings for job life beyond those of other countries. It is not our goal and cannot be that our regular work in this country is more burdensome and complex than anything else. The government's contract shows that the government will emphasize that there will be an otherwise efficient and just streamlining rule for the job and that the government will be a more efficient and just one. The Ministers of the Independence Department have set up a strategy that aims for the regularity of the job and for the Ministry to be simplified as much as possible without the safety of the public and the company. There is no doubt that there are many things to take, and the bill is only the first joint in the process of living as good a regular work as possible in producing good products and services and promoting their competitiveness, not in trying to swim through the jungle of rule. We have recently seen that a company has been stopping business or that it has been joined to an increased degree since what was a few years ago. Contestant is e.g. how difficult it is to run restaurants in the middle of the city of Reykjavík despite a large number of tourists. It cannot be said that it is merely because of an overly burdensome rule of order, but it truly plays in along with other public laws and expenditures. The environment of restaurants and other companies in travel services is considered in the Ministry's work on competitive evaluations prepared by the Economic and Development Organization, OECD. The task is planned to cover all the rules that apply to a particular job and to determine if it involves competitive or unnecessary rules. National benefits because the principle promotes competition and is not unduly burdensome. Compared to other OECD countries, the service sector in this country is particularly at a loss to the weight of the rules, and therefore, this is the case with the bill's suggestions. Action for a simple rule in my language field will take place until the end of this terms. In addition to the bill I recommend here, it will be taken into account that the simplified availability of enterprises to the administration and that communication with the government may be as much of a simple electronic form as possible. It will also be considered to simplify and enhance its effectiveness by assigning more efficient tasks to the EEA. In this way, instead of being paid from the state fund, the monitoring costs can be more likely to be put at risk. When a competitive evaluation with OECD is completed next year, we will suggest adjustments to the suggestions that OECD experiences from other countries indicate that will benefit the public and the economy. A respectable president. If we succeed in creating a better system of employment, the community as a whole will reap more produce, increase in economic growth, generally better employment conditions for the country and increase the prosperity of all the people living here. That is a goal that all of us must agree on. After this discussion, I suggest the bill be passed through 2nd. ... andwhat. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u73	Mr. President. The group I represent at the council has even. to reduce the show, and I'm sure it must be very exciting to take a hand-held stream of regulations and say that we're gonna throw them at the stake. But there is one thing in this matter that worries me somewhat, and it's how to sell one used car. More than 1990, this was the case with an inquisitive situation. There was no need for legalization, no need for bail, and a number of cheating, and pigs, and the customers lost. Although it is so that I strongly support the mitigation of starting business, business and other activities, I also think to my clients who are supposed to do business with those who start companies, i.e. Their profit, their safety, their wealth. In many cases, automobile purchases are the second biggest thing ordinary people buy, i.e. After property. The point is that this is done in a professional way. Now I don't understand any better, if I've read this bill correctly, but now it's time to cancel the legislation because the law of the car sale was adopted from 1990 for a valid reason. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if I'm correct in understanding that it should be said to cancel a law order, no longer require that the user sells used cars have professional insurance. I would like to start by getting answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u74	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator of these questions. I'm aware that this is the point that's controversial in the bill. I think that's as good as wild and damp. I know it's people who have in the process of reporting say they don't support this proposal. However, we are here today to form consumer legislation, which is much stronger than it was at the time of the law. In my department, I simply watched the whole area as we took this first step with this bill. As we look at the northern countries and other countries in Europe, we find that such sales and activities are not allowed, either in the North countries or in many European countries. If a consumer becomes involved in such purchases, we have a general environment, we have a legal committee for cash that is available to all. Of course, we have a general law of law, as mentioned, consumer legislation is much stronger. We have a general law on the natural and legitimate business practices, etc. When buyers of used cars take a car loan to finance the purchases, the car room is the role of creditors under the laws of consumer loans, etc. In the case of the purchase of new cars, and those where there is no permit are allowed so that, as I say, this is for the committee, of course, to discuss, and I suppose there will be further comments and that some guests will appear before the committee. My evaluation, after the premeditation of the Ministry, is that it is absolutely justified in disposing this complexity and order.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u75	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer that didn't convince me. There's talk of the North Sea sale of used cars at the hands of very large parties. I know, for example. that one large party in Iceland sent in a review saying: There is no need for permission. It was the largest offer in Iceland, for they understandably want to sell their own cars. This is a little different in Denmark because those who are selling it, i.e. The commission itself to use these cars on stock, to offer responsibilities, and I don't know what not being done here because the flea in the car sale of used cars is a little different from the outside, which is devoted to the fact that Danir and Norway, each nation, are 15 times more numerous than we are. Of course, this is how the dyspnoea in the market creates these conditions. Now, I must ask: If this is the park that will first be attacked by the Minister of Independence to simplify the principle, we expect the realtors to be taken next, and the attorneys there will be reduced to all guarantees, saying: "Well, the consumer protection has become so much better than it used to be here. That's right, it is, but I dare say that if these two things don't be corrected here, there won't be a good deal in selling and buying used cars. I'm telling you, and I think it's fucking hard, sorry, Mr President, that men take measures like this in some imaginary simple phase because there are two people, like I said, partners in this business, including the one who buys. [[The president calls.]] I dare say that their rights are being carried before a table by these changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u76	Mr. President. Despite my strong desire and good intentions, I did not expect to convince myself. A senator who answers me - perhaps in some other matter. [[Don't be so modest.]] Professional laboratorys have a lot of experience with the status of automobiles that had just begun at the time we set this permit, then, in 1994. The examples of cheating and cheating in this business are, from what I hear, when a person is selling a car to a person. The same is true in the states of the North and the number of intermediate dealings has increased. That assignment and problem is there, whether or not it's authorised. I can't agree that these functions can be compared, especially with lawyers, but no matter how strong an consumer's position may be in our community, lawyers are in a way that makes it quite different in sectoral and difficult to compare them together. As I'm saying, I believe it's safe for us to follow what goes on and happen in the countries around us. We also know that we are involved in the Commission to be saved by a businessman, but it can be said that this surveillance is not very effective, for it has not been followed enough. I'm just going to go straight to work and say, either we're going to take big care of it, put money in it, increase the charge, and fix the work, or it's going to pay off consumers, or we're going to cut this thing off, and we're going to trust that public legislation will take it where it needs to be taken, and my food is enough. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u77	Mr. President. It is said in a proverb: not the one causing the lips. I'm aware that those who work in the commercial way under which they have had many years of experience warned of these changes, not of unforeseeableness. So the person standing here is one of the founders in that counter-established partner of Fég a legal car dealer, one of the first men in control there. At one time, when the change was made for a person to have a legal status and to take a course, testing was not done in vain. This was because customers had lost a huge amount of money, a considerable amount of money, a business with men who did not have insurance and were honestly saying that some people did not trust their boss, so they set up their companies in a row as the older ones went to their head, and people who did business with these very well - off parties suffered serious losses. Therefore, in 1990, if I recall correctly 1992, this change was made that if they wanted to start sales of used automobiles, they would need to attend a course. They had to get out of bank insurance, and if my memory didn't fail, it was quite high. To be honest, at one time the amount of damage that the guarantee was not to be compared to what a doctor takes. That is what those requirements were and are. If it's to be crossed out now with a single marker under the pretext that it is simplifying, I think there could have been a lot closer to him than just that. I fear that in this sector now lies the wild West situation that existed in the years before 1990, unfortunately, and so I continue to spry or spades, so that west to America have one rule: if anything is okay, you don't fix it. The 1990 change has only proved to be reasonably good, it has done quite well - and then why experimenting with it? You don't have to fix what's okay, and it's okay. I don't feel sorry for the men who are planning to start a business and plan to manage the money of others to meet minimal demands. I say minimum requirements, therefore, that this course and the test they take is primarily based on knowledge of negotiations and duties so that it is absolutely clear that they have a clear understanding of how to take interest in both parties. These are often two people serving, i.e. Seller and buyer. You have to be absolutely clear that they are fulfilling the interests of both. Any talk that consumer protection has become greater today than it was, which is certainly true, will not be enough in the present situation. This is where a large number of non-seat-separated sources will sell through the Internet, do not need permission and no longer meet conditions that are no longer available. I'm afraid of this change very much. Business partners like this are two or three, the person who starts the company and runs it, and it's a customer of the company, and customers who can often and often sell as these are some. For ordinary people, this is likely the second largest purchase and sale ever made. In this business too, two or more automobiles are often replaced, and the rest is served with money. We're talking a lot of money now. In our individual business ventures, we can easily be talking about the totals of 2,530 million in each case. If a man without permission, without insurance, without knowledge, is going to do business on this size, I just don't offer to do it, Mr. President. As I say again, I am quite convinced that this step is a bad step. It is in itself bad that the fine plans of the Independence Party minister to set off the forest of Regulation such an irony step, a step that is absolutely doomed to fail. I have the hope that the committee will, probably why. The Economic and Business Committee, who receive this bill for the treatment, calls for professionals in this class, professionals with great experience, and who listen at the same time, I remember that when e.g. The law on real estate sales was not given much consultation with the group that would then work by that law. It was quite a struggle, if I remember correctly, to get their laws straight. I say again that I think people should listen to voices from this article, the voices that know best, and listen to what men with decades of experience in this article have to offer. It may well be that men have gone into it with good intentions and that they think the purpose is good, but I wish they had started something different from this, perhaps not destroying so much of a class, a registered car sales. I'm afraid this will put a big bar in their account if this bill becomes a law. I also hate it if a minister, a government minister, and others who have been doing this ignore completely the cautions that have come from this article because of it. I really hate it because it is usually such that legitimate criticism is presented by knowledge and on the basis of experience is often the most fertile. It is often - and not often but often - that humans cannot help but listen to those who have come to know, have the greatest experience, and should work on the changed laws. It won't be easy when it goes around the way it is presented today. My hope, Mr. President, is at the moment. The top economic and business committee knows. Ministers and that the committee notices, no matter how much better, than Ministers and others who have been involved in this bill's contract, apparently did, the tips and the comments made, and the call for men who have come to know and then to work on a changed law, taking note of what they say, and making appropriate changes in this bill. It's almost certain that in the suit it's in here, and now the person here will not support this case. It's just not possible because it's so badly worked. I'm afraid the consequences will be, so I don't want to be a part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u78	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the contributions of this bill and wanted us to be as often a prime project as this, subjecting to a simple rule. I think we're here discussing a very important step--I don't think it, I know it. I do not doubt that many regulations and many laws that have been passed through the years and that the Ministers of the Ministry of Employment are now considering to be well - intentioned and sound in mind, and no doubt many regulations and many laws of a particular need at the time, but it is also important to revise these things regularly. The times change, and the people with whom the law has to do so. I think what we lack here is the most important thing to do, but we're a lot better at setting up new rules and new laws. I am convinced that it is possible to simplify much when it comes to the environment of companies and employment in this country. I remember that in my earlier life, I was working to advise innovation companies and pioneers who were starting a business on how they had to turn. At the New Creation Center, we had a special table for the permission of different occupations. I recall that particularly small but still very remarkable activities, such as a hair shop had a number of permissions to be applied, both to the government, to the state, and then back to my rural society, so I'm celebrating it very much, and I think it's important. I'd like to encourage the highest. Minister ahead on this journey. These substances can be taken even more step - by - step. This brings into mind that this is one of the things the government set out as a goal in his covenant and that in the next series of action plans, it will be looked forward to further reducing unnecessary regulations, increasing the electronic services of the public, allowing people from employment to approach government services and services directed toward one place on the Internet. In this context, I'd like to mention that we're in the middle of something. The Economic and Business Committee was introduced in Digital Iceland this week and the opportunities are huge. It is primarily an opportunity to provide better public service, as is true of making practical adjustments, and to make better use of the funds that go into various forms of service. I'm sitting right there. The Economic and Business Committee will therefore receive this bill for me. I will, of course, look at what was discussed above on the sales of used automobiles. I must admit that I was in the process of saying that much of this business was already going to a different direction and taking place in the millions and through the Internet, so I am in the past not very worried about the change presented here. I can assure you what. paritaprevir Sourstein Sæmundsson that, of course, we shall get those who are familiar with us on the committee and review this aspect. In advance, I have no concern about what is suggested in the bill and just restate my thanks and, in fact, further encouragement to the minister to present even more of his bills.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u79	President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the law on the handling of private matters, making adjustments in the manner of a higher court case being handled in the case of perjury. The bill has been submitted twice before it could not be discussed. An important factor in the rightfulness of the courts is that those who go to court may have the possibility of being reviewed by a higher court of law. Such rules promote not only increased rightfulness but also harmonization on a legal level. In Iceland a number of courts are serving at the first level. It therefore contributes to harmony in a court of law to allow people to refer their cases to a higher level of judgment. The possibility of passing lawsuits and reviews from courts is an essential part of the legal state we live in and is in harmony with the 70th grade. The constitution and 6. European Convention of Human Rights. According to current 152 str. the management of private matters is a requirement for an appeal to the National Court to an appeal level of 1 billion. K. This amount changes at the rate of each year based on the change in index price from January 1, 2018. According to 2 mg. The same articles should determine the level of appeal after the obligatory requirement in an appeal policy. If more than one requirement is included in the case, they should be agreed with the decision of an appeal level. The current rules on appeal levels make it difficult to appeal to subjects with low financial requirements. This may be both necessary and normal when discussing matters that have only little financial value. Such rules are to be made up of the social costs of a major legal operation that discusses relatively small interests. Similar rules can be found in other countries and have been widely viewed as improving. But it also includes matters that involve not only financial interests but also other interests. In particular, these include matters that have to do with delinquency, according to the 234, families of Jehovah's Witnesses. par. a general penal law. Such matters are a matter of great importance where a person is heading for others because of certain statements and demands their innuendo, but there are also misunderstandings in such cases based on Article 26. damage fixation. It is true, however, that before this council there is a prime minister of justice who states that the section of penalties should be removed, and the protection of the nations is being taken into a special law code that makes improvements for the sake of mischievement. Thus, these matters ceased to be very serious and simply become traditional personal matters. I will briefly object to the overlap of this bill that will be discussed in the future. The fact is that it is more than simple financial interests. There, however, people are under attack and freedom of expression. In these cases, it is quite common to conclude that the appeal level mentioned in Article 152 will not be reached. The beatings and therefore, when judged to have hurt someone, there are often court - tolerances that they cannot appeal to the court without applying for a special appeal permit on 2 mg. 152nd par. In the case of appeal to the National Court, it is up to the National Court whether he grants it an appeal. On the other hand, if the person loses the case, simply specifying a amount of money that is high enough to appeal in any case, the court's demands on such matters are always much higher and, in fact, a simple matter for the person who is heading, or a heading as it is called. By keeping his judgment on this appeal level, the plaintiff can guarantee, if expected by his demands, that he will always be able to bring the case to the National Court. From that arrangement, a respected president, there is a certain imbalance that develops between a plaintiff and a plaintiff regarding access to a higher level of judgment. Depending on who will lose the case, the application will be for appeal or not. Four. 152nd par. a law on private treatment can be found authority on the National rights to allow an appeal form when appeal levels are not reached. There are several conditions that the appeal permit should be granted. However, responses to appeal documents are not published publicly and therefore there is little transparency in the application procedure. In fact, it is uncommon for appeal permission to be issued in the case of injury, even though the outcome of the matter may involve the important interest of the person seeking appeal, such as. His freedom to express himself as being spent at 73rd. The Constitution and 1 0... European Convention of Human Rights. Therefore, a respectable president, to ensure that the plaintiff has every right to reinvestment of the higher court, must ensure that both parties have the right to appeal without having to apply for appeals. The European Court of Human Rights is a principle of justice, but the rule can be described by it as having the same situation in business without any discrimination. That rule is reflected in the rules of human rights that apply to the righteous treatment. In 1st. 70 C. The Constitution is guaranteed the right to obtain a release of rights and dues or to the charge of a fair trial within the right time for an independent and impartial court. It is stated that unless a judge determines another law in order to protect the welfare, the universal order, the security of the state, or the interests of the local authorities, a judicial hearing will be subject to a judicial hearing. The objective of this rule is to ensure equality in courts and to make decisions made by law on the rights and duties of men on an objective basis. The rule of a fair case for 1st. 70 C. The constitution has a parallel in 1 mg. Section 6. European Convention on just treatment. While the possibility of personal appeal is not directly stated in the above articles as fundamental rights, the European Court of Human Rights discussed the possibility of appeal as a factor in the availability of courts. In this way, a demonstration of appeal may lead to the European Convention on the Rights of the Rights of the Righteous Treatment. Then the United Nations Human Rights Committee has described that restrictions on rights to appeal may include limitation of human rights to get their judgment reviewed in accordance with 5 mg. 14th par. The international agreement on civil and political rights that stipulates human equality in the courts and for their equal access to them The prevailing situation does not contribute equally to appeal to the higher level of judgment. As a result, the participants do not always have access to a review of courts' solutions. This is not consistent with 1 mg. 70 C. The constitution, or 1 mg. Section 6. European Convention of Human Rights. Then the ruling situation may also conflict with 13. The covenant that includes the right to a realistic decision to seek justice, i.e. to have someone to look for when dealing with human rights. This bill suggests that a person does not have to meet the criteria set out in the first two books of the Bible. mg 152nd par. track No. 91/1991, of the appeal level, in the case of an injury, according to 234.•237. par. a general penal law or when unsigned recommendation has been required, as per 1 mg. 241. gr. Same song. Such matters are always relevant to the rights of individuals. On the one hand, they're on the side of their identity immunity, i.e. ignity, on the other hand, the freedom of expression by individuals or by law. The fact that it is easier to appeal the penalties of mutilation when acquiesced for misdemeanors rather than when convicted leads to instability and can paralyze the decision of a court court. The right to obtain a legal decision guarantees justice and conformity. The fact that only another person has the possibility of appeal, depending on the outcome, creates a misapprehension in a court case that has a negative impact on the freedom of expression. Therefore, President, it is very important to respond to that situation and correct this fault of legal law. The fact that another individual has more right to appeal is against the principle of civil rights in an equal case and on the right to a righteous treatment. President. I also believe that it is necessary to intervene only in the bill of the Minister of Justice on improvements due to the defamatory action of this council. This is a matter based on Congress resolution from 138 C.E. that Iceland has a legal position for the protection of expression and intelligence, often called IMMI. There, the General Assembly commissioned the government to seek ways to strengthen freedom of expression, freedom of speech, information sharing, and free release, as well as for purpose. The assessment of the legal environment to set up a subject and prepare necessary legislation or new legislation. Among the laws that came out of it was this bill of Ministers who punish the misdemeanors from the law of general penalties, and who enter a special law code that allows payment for the misdemeanors of those who in a criminal and illegal way hurt another person by their expression. Of course, it's necessary that the bill I recommend here will take into account the laws that might be affected by the highest standard bill. Minister, but with the bill, there's 234, and, uh.......241. par. disbanded from public penalties. The problem my bill is presented to solve remains, however, that the prime minister of Justice will be accepted as there are no modifications to court-separated capitals and appeal warrants. How appropriate, then, for a dignified president to consider matters at the same time! If the bill of Justice is accepted, my case will be updated so that it will apply to the new penalties of misdeeds. Just as it is necessary to ensure equality in the new law, as in current penalties. Even if penalties are canceled, the sum of money that judges are made to pay the main groundwork, not in itself, that the statement was unmarked or one has broken anyone else's worth. A respectable president. It's not right when it comes to freedom of expression in this country, and that's what we've been through. We have also seen that small independences in the media need special funds to protect themselves from criminal charges. If those who accuse the media can do so indefinitely under the cover of appeals and can also keep the media, journalists, or persons who express themselves in court for perhaps more years, but that does not mean when the media loses the case is not fair, more honorable. That's what we're suggesting to change with this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u80	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir I agree with Ævarsdóttir Ávarsdo's daughter for the story, and I'll join her. It is very important that, as it put it, it is properly given to the use of the freedom of expression in Iceland. But I don't see that this bill solves the problem she came to at the end of her case, i.e. the dangers that have repeatedly developed and repeated the word in the Icelandic court, that the rich have dealt with those who do not have as much money or who do not have as much money and then continue the lawsuit more and less indefinitely. I think there's a much more problem in Icelandic courts than whether someone who is convicted of a offense could appeal. It is true that the senator has a problem for himself. I just want to hear the senator discuss how she envisions to handle the other main problem because I can't see in any way that it's done with the contribution of this bill. As the senator entered his case, rich members will still be able to keep people in court more and less suitable. I see it as the problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u81	A respectable president. Sometimes it is said that small things do one big thing. Not only have the piranha offered this case to deal with this situation but I have also, just a few months ago, recommended a different case in which courts need to be reasoned when deciding who to pay a bill. Because there is one thing that the media and those who express themselves in public fields have been better able to experience, even doing a murder case on the basis of freedom of expression, but then standing up with considerable legal expenses, despite the fact that the principle of judicial cases is that the person who is dealing with matters basically should not pay the legal bills. We suggest that if this principle is to be compromised, it must be reasoned, and that is one part of it. What we did, too, after the businessman in the capital area imposed a restraining order on a press agency two weeks before election was giving a bill that took it out of the county's hands in the capital area to make decisions on matters that he clearly does not understand and deliver to the courts. Sadly, this assembly did not receive support, and unfortunately, Catherine's daughter's government, especially the highest. The prime minister of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's Jakobsdóttur, not merely to change this position when she appointed a special group for the protection of expression freedom, but to the latter phase of the assignment, a change that I felt was somewhat on. You're right about what you're doing. There are various steps to be taken by a senator. This case is just a small step out of a number of people who have to step in order to promote the protection of expression freedom in Iceland. But the Pirats were for IMI. We've been behind a lot of expression freedoms so far, and I think we can be trusted to keep them up.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u82	Mr. President. As previously mentioned in my case at the Hall of Congress, I greatly respect the path of Porita and, in fact, other political organizations to improve society. It will not be enough often said how important it is to have many voices and opinions that help us to pull this community in the right direction. You're absolutely right about the senator. The senator mentioned the cost of justice. I agree completely with what. A senator may often be the threshold, which may be said to be difficult for the little party to cross. You have repeatedly seen that appeals have cost a lot of money, and they have even suffered significant financial losses because of appeals on a case they have worked on because the cost of judicial action is not deemed sufficiently, or in some cases even dropped. Then I wondered, " Where is the right for the little party, if we can talk about it as a group of people? ' Or for those who may be less powerful? Where, then, is the justice, if the big person can still and will still continue to pressure those whom he believes he can rely on in the strength of his size and money?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u83	A respectable president. In this case, we're talking about an imbalance between the participants. It has been set up a sum of a million dollars, and it will only go up. For matters to be counted - what should we say? - It's an appeal price, that's the underdog. What we're suggesting is that when it comes to expressing freedom of expression, this is not just relevant, and it can also be appealed, the loss of the matter, i.e. has concluded that a successful plainer has been injured. That's how we're leveling our situation, making sure there's an even greater equal between the participants before the court. What we are also doing in parallel with this matter is to suggest that there is always lack of logic when a person who loses a court case is asked to pay court expenses. This is something that may also have made financial sources simpler about moving up to the edge of these cases. However, it is not only in Iceland that we see money - strong persons attacking the media or painting individuals in judicial matters. We still need access to courts. We still need the system so that the person can approach the courts. So the legal adjustments we are suggesting are designed to level the playground, because it is already inconsistent with the financial status and plaintiff, as it may play. It can't be inconsistency just in the system itself. That's what's being suggested to change. Although we're not finishing this one step in this law, we're making it whole, and hopefully we'll do it together.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u84	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct the adjustment of marriage laws taken from a council convention resurgence, along with their insistence. The members of Andrés Ingi Jónsson, the Left Green, Vala Helgadóttir's daughter, the United States, and the Pirates Birni Levi the son of Gunnar, and Helgi Hrafn the son of Gunnarsson. The same members of Parliament also suggest a resolution on the legal status of the victims of the marital breakup with this bill, and hopefully it will be recommended in the days ahead. Violence in the privacy of the household is probably one of the most prevalent acts of violence committed in Iceland. These offenses are serious, especially since violence is used in a close relationship that is legally bound together. Present - day laws do not give those who are violent at all the right ways to get out of marriage. This is especially true of those who tolerate spiritual, financial, or oppressive violence. In particular, the bill is suggested to cope with this problem. The bill suggests a fresh change in marriage law. First, it is suggested that the time limit for divorce be the same whether he is demanding marriage or both. Second, legal divorce is suggested to be simplified when a husband and wife do not agree to seek it, and they also provide greater freedom to make their marriage registration decisions. Third, legal divorce on the grounds of domestic violence is suggested to provide practical solutions for those who tolerate such wrongdoing. Fourth, the search for reconciliation is suggested in a series of forms involving child custody. The goal of the above changes is to strengthen the position of victims of violence and ensure the right to end marriage. Mr. President. Marriage is a legal arrangement and formally confirms the agreement between two persons to spend their lives together and to share responsibility in homes and children. Marriage also involves faithful and progressive marital obligations, as well as the right to genetics of another marriage mate. The basis for a marriage is the agreement and can be accepted and agreed on by an agreement on your own terms to meet legal requirements. In fact, statistics from Iceland's Habitat show that about 85% of the divorce at table and bed ends with legal divorce. There is no evidence at any time about the time of separation and the 15% of couples who do not wish divorce to be reunited. There is also no official information to distribute over the proportion of couples who break up because of disorder requires the end of the law. It will be estimated that six months after the separation to a table and a whole year after a joint breakup, the unsatisfactory people will be able to restore their relationship as a basis for it on another level. It should be noted that if people want to get together longer than the minimum amount of time prescribed in the law, there is nothing against them. In 1993, though, the legal requirements for divorce are much similar to those of the earlier law on marriage, No. 60/1972, of an institution and of a broken marriage, which had also taken limited changes in the content of the bill, from an earlier law all roads since 1921. It is important that transporters consider that current marriage laws reflect frequentity. Social emphasis has been greatly altered, including in view of the roles and positions of authority of the sex of the home and of the individual freedom of the individual, as well as the status and importance of marriage as fundamental unity in society. Although marriage is an important fundamental unit of society, its importance has been reduced by the development of more diverse living forms, by increasing community support for single parents, and by the acceptance of society in different family patterns. Therefore, in view of the lack of evidence for the long limit of time and the wide limits to legal divorce that existed in times past, especially since time limits and restrictions prove to be a source of great burden to those with whom there are marital violence. It is long out - of - date to remain married, no matter what. Similarly, a person is free to marry, and he should be free to end his marriage. Mr. President. As noted earlier, violence in homes is one of the most common forms of violence in Iceland. Its uniqueity, of course, lies in the close bond with the doer, making it more difficult for the person to break off ties with the doer and thus escape the violence. The Women's Relations of Family Violence reports that there may be a number of ways to develop physical, mental, sexual, financial and digital, as well as many behaviors that involve threats, threats, control, and/or harassment. Then there are often more than one form of violence and its manifestations are also many, such as humiliation, emotional oppression, rejection, disregard, isolation, and economic control, but also beatings, rape, and physical injury. All of this should be counted as valid for marital separation, which is not really in accordance with current marriage laws. Several attempts have been made to define domestic violence in law and order, but it remains that there is no single general definition. The U.S. Marshal's procedures on handling and registration of domestic violence include domestic violence, for example. defined in this way, by permission of the President: ▪ World violence is a person's close exposure to violence, i.e. factors related and tolerated are related, or have a history of involvement [...] in violence can be physical, mental, sexual, and/or financial, and include the use of force or threat of force. It also states that domestic violence is not bound to a doer's home and/or to a person who suffers, but it can take place anywhere. In the 3rd. The rules of action guide the violations of the general penal law and child protection laws are given under the category of activities used in close relationships. Mr. President. Then there's a special reason to be able to make 218. gr. b in a general penal law, which was recently declared when it was installed in 2016, as follows, by permission of presidents: ▪ Anyone who repeatedly or seriously threatens the life, health, or welfare of the present or former partner, or of his or her offspring, or of his or her former partner or partner, his own spouse, or others living with him in his home, or who are in his care, with violence, threats, deportation, forced or otherwise, shall be in prison up to 6 years. If the fracture is gross, it can be a prison for up to 16 years. In particular, assessment of gross activities should be made to determine whether the sufferer has suffered major physical or physical injury or death. Furthermore, it should be noted that fractures have been committed in a particularly painful or hurtful way, have lasted for a long time, or if a person has seriously abused his superior positions of persecution. In a paper with a bill, the law came to pass. ............................................................................................................................. It was also emphasized that violence in close relationships not only involves a collection of individual cases but also is to be respected as a unit. The report says: Thus, attention is presented to a situation of terror and fear that can arise as well as to the ongoing emotional suffering, oppression, and inadequacy experienced under such circumstances. Transporters of this bill agree with statements on the importance of violence in close relationships not only is defined as isolated cases but may be respected as one unit. There is strong evidence that proof requirements for divorce on the grounds of violence are as heavy as demands laid upon the prosecution when a fine has to be proved, as is 108. the treatment of criminal cases. The current legal requirement of marriage law is narrow enough to demand divorce if another marriage mate has been informed that the assault or sexual abuse taking place on the other or on the child who lives with them is or has demonstrated behavior that is lost to cause serious fear that it will be guilty of such an act. One partner may demand legal divorce to require that, first of all, that the act was deliberately committed, causing damage to the body or health of the victim, secondly, that the partner of the doer has appealed a case, or required permission to divorce within six months of being informed of the act and not later than two years of his life, and third, the most difficult thing to do, the candidate would agree to ask for divorce on the basis of his offense. This is supported by 2 mg. 41 st. The law required to seek a divorce may be found on the grounds of a law other than 33. and 1st. 36 st. The law, if a husband and wife agree on that, it stands there, and otherwise they have to seek him in court. Does this law mean that even if a violent person has been judged for a violation of his or her mate, even if a police report is available and a proof of injury is also required, the sufferer cannot demand divorce from his violent partner unless his partner agrees to do so. Rather than appeal to judicial cases to demand divorce, with the appropriate delay, cost, and stress, they will be able to do so. Is the authority to demand a legal divorce by a businessman on the grounds of violence so narrower than the authority to judge for a similar offense where no clear confession and his approval of the court are required. Another fault of the Mosaic Law is that it does not involve spiritual violence, except for that which is meant to arouse serious fear that a mate is guilty of assault or sexual abuse. While spiritual violence may be more common in relationships than physical, at the same time it is harder to provide conclusive evidence. Then there are manifestations of spiritual violence beyond the fear of physical or sexual violence. Mr. President. Thus, the transporters of the bill suggest that a businessman can divorce without the exception of divorce and that his or her mate's demands have been physically, mentally, or threatened to perform physical or physical abuses. Is a way of not specifying with an exhaustive count what is involved in such violence in the regulations of the law but rather seeking to explain it in comments to the article. However, it does mention proof requirements. Mr. President. In the process of this bill, there was consultation with members and people with experience and expertise in the field of marriage and domestic violence, interviews and meetings. Were even. Talk to lawyers at the county official, the Women's Apologist, and the police, and meet with people who have stumbled across the walls of the law after seeking divorce after experiencing physical violence on the part of their spouses. This discussion included: until the divorce process becomes particularly complex and difficult for victims of shared possessions and children in marriage. In many cases, the stay of women in the women's shelter has increased because until divorce is passed, they are not entitled to economic support, full child support, and other social services that they should be listed as single mothers. The longer the divorce becomes delayed, the more likely it is to return to the homes of violent people, which, in the opinion of the movers, are unsurpassed. It was also noted that according to scholars, the violence effects of bacteria are still present long after the application for divorce, which both provide further support to the above approach, and it indicates the application of Article 35. Marriage contracts are particularly unfair and burdensome for victims of domestic violence. A shrimping phase in the divorce process for children and possessions comes only when there is an unsatisfactory agreement on how to conduct custody and exchange. There is reason to note that the will of a violent man inhibits divorce, so he can take advantage of this situation and thus maintain his power and influence on the life of an tolerated person. There are, in fact, a number of examples. When there is no agreement with married couples on these issues, the businessman can only grant permission to divorce if there is a government decision and a court of custody. This barrier is high, costing costs, time - consuming, and spiritually taxing because of child care. In this regard, there were mainly two solutions that were mentioned in the consultation we had with a number of parties, on the one hand, allowing a businessman to issue divorce, even though the marital situation was undisputed. In this way a couple would be able to finish their affairs at their own pace without being married. Were even. pointed out that such a solution is found in Norwegian law. On the other hand, rules could be cleared for abdicating the trial in court are the victims of child abuse. In these meetings it was also mentioned the view that the obligation to make peace would be as well as the concept of reconciliation was mispronounced by victims of domestic violence, although it was difficult to see the purpose of reconciliation between an tolerated and violent man. In such cases, reconciliation is rarely prerequisite. It came to the view that reconciliation therapy would be converted into a conversation about the prescientity of a couple's children. It was also suggested that a conversation with a businessman or judge be a principle, but it would be permitted to continue to wish the reconciliation for a representative of a religious or biological society, for both sides would agree to go that way. While this bill is intended to improve the status of the tolerancers of violence, and it is necessary to agree in the opinion of the carriers, the access of the government and the Minister of Justice is also required to facilitate the administration of representatives of the county in order to respond to spiritual violence in the treatment of divorce. Experts in the field of psychology or social advice must be assured to agree on terms of divorce, not just lawyers. The full possibility of legal divorce should be considered, even if there is no agreement on the exchange or foreseeing, and there are no rules to expedient. That is why, as mentioned earlier, a special council proposal is made on these topics and is made of the same urgency. Councilmen. Mr. President. Then it comes to the individual articles of the bill, first about Article 1. It is. The report says: Article 34. will be the physical agreement of the final statement 33rd. that a mate who believes that she cannot continue to marry can seek separation from the table and from the bed and that such divorce should be granted. So this suggests that another couple have the same right to require separation to a table and to have a one - sided bed and if that were a mutual choice between both mates. The reason for this is that when a husband and wife seek a divorce, the means for divorce may be just as great and even more reason to divorce when it comes to marital problems. How Would You Answer? It is suggested that marriage laws be canceled to eliminate the right effects of separation and separation if mates continue together beyond a short period of time that is reasonable for them and for later married couples unless it is a temporary attempt to reinvent marital relations. The evidence is twofold. First, the current requirement for a separation process is to be delayed by pressing judicial action with no reason for such treatment. Second, a legal person should be able to interpret his or her marriage arrangements, including changes in his or her marriage to registered marriages, if they choose to do so. Article 35. A marriage law severely limits the right to choose the best form of marriage for each other and for the State. At that time, the victims of violent acts in close relationships are often in a more sensitive position toward their mates, and there are many examples that they have come back to him after a divorce, e.g. For financial or emotional reasons or for some form of oppression. Article 35. works against the interests of the most vulnerable group and must be changed. Section 3. it is simple that the time limit of divorce following separation from the table to the bed will be six months, regardless of whether a husband or his wife requires divorce. About 4. par.Unable to The time limit for divorce after separation because of disagreements, without the application for separation, is one year, not just two, for now. In the 5th. it is proposed that the regulations of 3 mg be put out. Thirty-nine. marriage law on time limits required to request permission to divorce in the wake of adultery. Hence, divorce can be demanded on the grounds of adultery no matter how long it would be before a marriage mate became aware of the norm. The most comprehensive article is given for Article 6. that discuss violence. At the beginning of the first verse 1. it is required that the home be divorced without the separation to the table and to bed, to meet other criteria. A couple who insist on divorce may have been threatened or violent on their spouse's part. The same is true if your spouse has thus violated a child who lives with them. The law states that violence and threats of violence are involved in physical, sexual, spiritual, or financial violence. This also applies to violence and threats to children in the home. The definition of violence is based on the European Parliament's agreement on prevention and the conflict against violence against women and domestic violence, which has been called the Istanbul Convention. Violence is numerous and can also appear as a collection of minor offenses over a long period of time, which is the view behind 218. gr. b in the general law of justice, as in the past. It is proper to make sure that the violent concept is not interpreted too narrow, for there is no strong evidence to limit the right to seek a divorce that has been abused by a spouse. Because of the difficulty in proving this type of wrongdoing in 2 mg. Evidence requirements in four teams are laid aside to explain how a couple who require divorce on the grounds of domestic violence can demonstrate the wrongdoing of their mates. First, it is stated that a license for divorce on the basis of the law should be given if a mate is either guilty of wrongdoing or has been judged for transgression, that leaves of divorce should be granted in the case of a mate being judged for a violent act in a marriage that involves evacuation of the court. Second, it is stated that if there is a police report on domestic violence, it should be granted. If so, evaluate a report on the subject. Third, it is stated that permission for divorce due to domestic violence should be given if other evidence suggests that the couple requiring divorce suffered violence on the part of their mates. These are specifically referred to as physician's trauma certificate and a medical report. A psychologist's report may confirm that a person bears evidence of close contact with violence, but he does not prove that such violence has taken place. Similarly, there may be evidence of violence on the part of an injury, but usually there is little information about who the person is. The application of the medicinal product should provide a comprehensive assessment of the individual's data and presentation. In view of the fact that law divorce is generally not considered as burdensome to people as punishment, it is true that proof requirements are evaluated. Fourth, an overall estimate of the situation and information is required for other reasons to believe that the couple requiring divorce suffer violence on the part of their mates. In this case, the comparable regulations as in the 3rd issue allowing the decision-makers to extend space for evaluation of the situation, e.g. After talking with both husband and wife, or with reference to information from child care or other sources in the case of children. It is relevant that the evaluation is objective and in accordance with similar findings. The basic thought behind the law is that a marriage mate should not be too difficult to allow for divorce and that when it is suspected that violence has been used against a mate or a child who lives with a married couple, the person should be allowed to enjoy the doubt. Finally, a headline in the preceding article is suggested to be changed from a physical assault in domestic violence. Around 7. is added to the a-arm for a change of 1 mg. 41 st. in line with the change from baseline in Article 34 The law, like 1st parr. The bill, and the b-party is suggested that the businessman cannot provide only legal separation on the basis of 36. g. The law, or the couple's mutual agreement, is also in the case of conditions 40. the divorce caused by domestic violence is fulfilled. Around 8. says: Because of the dissatisfaction efforts made by those who are not able to endure, a change in the name and approach of a couple's conversation in a divorce process may be suggested. It is suggested that such a conversation will become a principle in the hands of a businessman or a judge unless a husband and wife decide together to wish that a representative of religion or laboratory society would lead them through that process. At 42nd. is an improved arrangement that allows marriage mates to make peace with each other if conditions 40 c. is fulfilled. It is suggested that the headline of this article be changed from the Tremble Search in Children's Preservation and Conspiracy. Count 9. Do not need explanations. Mr. President. It is hoped that this bill should be handled by the council and that it will become a law that first will result in a great deal of progress and justice. Finally, I suggest that the bill be referred to the General and Education Committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u85	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize social security laws, No. 100/2007, age-related microenergy supplementation. A moving man in addition to me is Inga Sæland. After 1st mg. 20. The law comes a new paragraph, as follows: When the right to biofuel falls to the start of the pension, the right to age-related biofuels should remain unchanged. Two. states: This law already comes into effect. A report says: When a micro-energy pensioner becomes 67 years old, i.e. closer to the age of the right to start a pension, his right to an age - related disability supplement will fall. At this point, the person's pay is limited to the amount of age-related microenergy supplementation. This impairment plays a major role in the provision of disability and is a major burden to them. Depending on how young a person is treated when evaluated for 75% disability, the evidence of paying age - related disability is that the recovery of the individual is long - term. Whether 66 or 67 years of age is valid, the evidence is that with ever improved medical science, people's efficiency has increased well beyond the age of 67. Those who are employed can use legal resources to take half of their pension or take advantage of their pensions, but those who are unable to do so do not enjoy such resources. Therefore, the age - related microemissions should not fall at the beginning of the pension period. The Age - related disability supplement was adopted at the General Assembly of December 12, 2003, and became a law on January 1, 2004. Age - related micro-employment is paid to those paid for disability and rehabilitation in accordance with social support laws. The interest rate is determined by the age of an individual when it was estimated for the first time to 75% disability. A person 16◯24 years of age receives 44,866 k. Today, 25 - year - olds 42,000, 26 - year - olds 40,379, 27 years old gets 38,000, 28◯29 years of age, 33.65, 309, 32573, 3466, 34535 years of age, and they receive between 20,000, 36How old do they receive, 38◯37, 11,000, 40945 years of age 6,700, 46 service50 years of age, 4,9655, 3,365 years old. 2,243 and 60◯66 years of age, 1,122K. These are not very high amounts of money, and it is really incomprehensible that these amounts fall out just because an invalid becomes a pensioner. Two years after the law entered into force, beyond that, the Seljan wrote an article on the slaving of older citizens under the title "Alduras linked to micro-energy supplementation, " and 67-year-olds-six. With the permission of the president, that's what it says: ▪ The struggle for the improved interest of elderly ones and invalids has often been somewhat compatible, but there are certainly many similarities. Truly, much has been accomplished, but all too often, it can be said about the steps ahead: too late - too little. For a long time, I am safe to say that one of the largest phase victories was won under the leadership of Garðar Sverrisson as chairman of the Microcording Community when an agreement was reached with the Government on the Age-Defficiency that sensitivity to the basics of disability to those who had remained abstinent throughout history, but it was so dwindling as disability developed later in life. True, it became sad that the government did not fully fulfill its promises, so the decline became much larger than the agreement had actually been. But for a large group of cripples, the quality of a valuable dresser was improved, and the people who had struggled much with disability were given their share. This story should not be mentioned here, but it can be remembered. The business with these lines, however, was often to call attention to the overwhelming failure of the micro-organism of age, i.e. becoming 67 years old, becoming an old-fashioned age. You will see that the age - related disability rates fall down, for according to the law, the person is no longer a invalid, but the pensioner and the gross may be reduced by more than 24 thousand a month, much less. Both the Microcracy Alliance and the older citizens have been drawn to accept correction, the injustice to be accepted, but still nothing has been done. There would now be no need for another law into our insurance legislation, but a simple additional law would add together the benefits of a pensioner and an age-related microenergy supplement. So I'm known as the Karves Act in my fresh memory, the insurance of patients called, where a righteous and normal construction was carried out that there was no law allowing improvements in the law and in the general disability benefits. This meant that micromortality for additional health damage would not be improved according to Karvet's health insurance, as quietly as it sounds. This was finally removed, and at the end of the world, no doubt everyone felt that justice was right. Whatever method may be used to correct a situation today, it is not important that an invalid person not be deprived of the money he or she before age 67 had a legal right. I challenge the Council and the government not to let this unwork pass and to correct, of course, what is to be the main reason that benefits cannot be snatched away by people they have rightly enjoyed only because they are at a certain age. The baseline value of the energy-related energy exchange is certainly low if not corrected. In this spirit, this bill is submitted, and as a result, I would like to point to a review from the North American Community in July in the summer: As it is known, the General agreed, the Department of Social Affairs and Child Affairs for the reduction of improvements due to other earnings of pensioners. The change was retrospective, corresponding to January 1, 2019. The U.S.A. has now announced that by the last week of August, those entitled to pay on pay increases due to the first eight months of the year will be paid. Factors change so that 65% of the taxable income of microenergy and rehabilitation donors are now affecting the calculations instead of 100% previously. Age-related micro-energy supplements now have a 50% value instead of 100% previously. Parkings in terms of social security and social support laws other than age-related disability supplements continue to have a 100% share. The European Commission considers this change of law to be a step toward decoupling the amount of dollars to a dollar, now 65 bucks against a dollar, and continues to wonder why it is so difficult to get a government to eliminate this loss. Only in this way are disabled persons opening their way into the job market without having to buy into it. Cutback's still there, just a little smaller. IN THE United States alone, we need to take the step to the full and eliminate the damage. It is a crown in front of the loss, and it had a tremendous impact on the income - related supplementation, and we have to realize that the income - related satisfaction of the disability donor is kind of their pension fund. We are talking about young people who, in many cases, will never reach the workforce. People at a job market collect in a pension fund, over 15%, and they can also collect special savings. Many poor people who have never been to the job market have no way of earning such money. That's where the special pension money's gonna get the blood out. Therefore, we must make sure that those who are in such a situation and born with the burden of having to be poor all their years of life are not written out as healthy as the 67 - year - old. I'm sorry, but there's an incredible measure of injustice inside our system. This is one of them. We also see in the list that there is only one valid place to be taken down in micro-terrestrials, there are always some impairments. I also need to show in this context that it's intolerable that we have a system, and have maintained the remaining years with the equipment that we can't even trust every year's tax reports. The system puts income on tax returns, not by hundreds of thousands, but even over a million or more, and this is recorded on the tax report, such as the person received these amounts, all of which are taken from that year. Then the government came and said, "Hey, we were so kind to the cripples. We really raised them. We put it on the tax report, hundreds of thousands or even millions, and they are so much better because they got this money. I'm sorry, it's just not right. They never got that money. What's worst of all is that this is nowhere, nowhere in public evidence, unless people dig it. Yeah, it's for insurance. This is available from the social network, Reykjavíkurburg. These data are everywhere, but they never enter the system, so it can be calculated. So that's the only way, the only way we can do it, and we're supposed to make sure that it's done and we're going to get it done, pay real-time benefits, that everything is calculated in real time, so that when it comes to taxation of each year, it's right. It should be possible to say: This is exactly what an invalid received this year. Unfortunately, the system is so complicated that at the same time as one invalid, it is reduced by about 100 of you. K. There's another one with a million less. I speak there from experience, and there's a terrible situation, just awful, to receive a single payment from a pension fund, which often comes when people become desperate, and get in the ridiculous situation that you get 0K. A year from an insurance agency. People with children don't get paid for a year. What's worse is that these are the payments that may have been spread to you for years, two or three years. The system is so strange. Not only are you being disintegrated from a insurance institution but you are being taken away from child reforms, growth reforms. It's a humane system. It's not supposed to be tolerated because there's sick people there, and then the system says, "You can sue backwards, you can spread it. But you shouldn't have to. A sick person struggling for health, and worrying about the shipment of his family, should not have to fight the system too, to make it right with him. We're supposed to make sure that, if we're on the other side, we're assigning money to those who need it, the money will return without all hands, without cutting off a year later. This is one of the priorities of the people, one of the issues of our well - being, one of the many things we have already laid out, and many will come out. I assume that this is what we're going to do. The welfare committee and I sincerely hope that it will escape because it is not expensive to the State, but it is of enormous importance to the desperate who are able to keep them when they are 67 years old and retire.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u86	A respectable president. I'm here offering a proposal for a hearing about a helicopter in Home Island. Besides me, transporters are cool. Councilmen Páll Magnússon, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Silja Dögg Dög Gunnarsdóttir, Karl Hjaltason undâmundsson and Ari Trausti Guðmundsson. The suggestions are as follows: In order to increase safety in health and emergency flights to the Western Islands, the General concluded that a transport and local helicopter could be placed in Home Island. The work will be completed no later than 2021,156 This resolution proposal was previously proposed to a 149th legislature. Here is a brief report. In recent years, the U.S. National Guard helicopters have traveled dozens of trips to the Western Islands in hospital flights when there is no other route between land and Eyja. Hospital flights to the Western Islands depend on a number of problems. It takes about two hours to prepare and get a plane to the island from the time the alarm arrives and until the plane arrives in the island. The location of a medical flight in Akureyri is almost the longest possible flight route from the country to Eyja. Weathers change as if waved hand in the Western Islands, and it happens that a medical plane set out for the island does not have a chance to land there. There may be a wide range of conflicting, cloudy heights below 500 feet, and often a challenging situation beyond the control of a medical aircraft. In such a situation, to get sick or injured in the island of Eyjah, a helicopter of the National Guard needs to be called out. The bird's helicopters have often gone under extremely difficult circumstances in the island, and often the airport is shut off all traffic and the helicopter in such an emergency flight needs to be used at Hammer Road, west of Dwarfham, as an landing site. There is no marked landing platform in the Western Islands in such cases and it is important to increase the safety of the population by building a helicopter. The location of the helicopters needs to be determined in agreement with Istavia in the Western Islands, the management of HSU's medical transfers, the United States United States United States Air Force (HSU), and the Western Legion Guard. In Western countries, more than 4,200 people live in risky activities and the most serious cases of hospitalisation. Birth service is being run by midwives, but the expert service of doctors is not available 24 hours a day. Thus, hospital flight is an important safety valve that must not be controlled when an Eyster's emergency occurs. There is a possibility that a helicopter will remain an important safety device for Eytar flights when the airport is shut down, a military ship does not sail, and even the island crew shut down. Therefore, it is important to live in such a way that the best possible facility is to be made as soon as the island airport ends because of the weather conditions that no one can handle, as in short notice in the island. Of course, in addition to this, it is very important that such a facility could be an excellent facility and a homeship for a Southland hospital helicopter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u87	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a synonym that Iceland become a member of the United Nations Convention to ban nuclear weapons. The movers with me on the motion have a problem. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttar son of Proppé, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson and Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son. I have already recommended this matter, but the agreed recommendations were offered in 147, 148, and 149. During the last two of the three times the case was spoken, and it went to the Foreign Affairs Committee. The suggestion for this suggestion is very simple, but it sounds like: ▪ The General concluded to hide the government for Iceland to sign and validate a nuclear ban approved at the United Nations Conference in New York, July 7, 2017. This is a very important matter, and I'm here to make a brief explanation of it and to argue why Iceland is going to become a member of this contract. This is a contract that nuclear weapons will be banned. So I'd like to turn a few words into nuclear weapons because they're not just like any other weapon, but because they're very nasty because of their destructiveness. With one nuclear bomb, whole cities can be destroyed, killing millions, and, of course, we know the terrible fate of the people of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, who experienced nuclear weapons. There are still survivors of the aftereffects, sickness, and other difficulties caused by nuclear bombs that were blown up more than 70 years ago. The lead in this agreement to ban nuclear weapons is quite long, and there are other nuclear disarmament treats now. It may be the first to mention the NPT contract on the ban on the spread of nuclear weapons. In part, he is a 191 State, and he has often been regarded as one of the most important disarmament treaties in the field of nuclear arms, which means that more countries than today have nuclear weapons that do not arise. The agreement also places the obligation of the countries that already have arms to work out their elimination, and this may have been less pronounced on the end of the contract. Then there's the INF deal on the average nuclear missiles since 1987. In fact, the agreement was put here in Reykjavík, Cape, at a famous meeting in 1986. That contract goes out with an entire group of nuclear weapons, i.e. Substantial nuclear missiles will simply be destroyed. Since the contract went into effect in 1987, the United States has destroyed some 850 nuclear missiles and 32 bullet holes, and the Russians have destroyed over 1,800 nuclear missiles and nearly 120 shells. This, of course, is important, but unfortunately, last year, the United States announced this contract, including, the United States. The deal was held by Russian prosecuting committees. Of course, the global problem is that these two largest nuclear powers have led to the fact that the importance of the disarmament agreement is no longer valid. I'd like to mention the SALT agreements, but their basic target is to reduce the number of nuclear weapons and the decrease I mentioned earlier is partly based on them. This agreement has to be replaced every few years, and now Trump has declared that he will not renew his BALT contract unless China becomes part of the contract. Of course, it is important that China, as a nuclear power, be involved in nuclear disarmament. It is also important to remember, however, that China cannot get close to the United States and Russia in a number of nuclear weapons, but that is, of course, one nuclear bomb is really all that is needed to get the whole world into serious trouble, so it's not fixed. But why am I doing all of this in a discussion of history with this synopsis? Yes, because in recent years the disarmament agreements have been undermined. There is a new way to reduce and eliminate nuclear weapons, since the old contracts have not been working. For years the ICAN organization has fought for the ban on nuclear weapons, which took place on July 7, 2017, that 122 member nations of the United Nations agreed on a ban on nuclear weapons. The treaty will go into effect when 50 states have delivered a document of validation, confirmation, approval, or involvement to the United Nations chief. Now the situation is that 79 countries have signed this agreement, and 33 countries have validated it, so we are approaching the 50 countries and that the importance of the agreement will be one of the UN treaties and therefore no nuclear weapons. Of course, Iceland should be a party to this kind of deal. It doesn't mean anything to say on days that we're an armyless nation, but then we don't do our part when it comes to banning the most notorious weapons ever invented. In 2017, Nóbel's Peace Prize was won by the ICAN Pioneer Service Committee in establishing this agreement, so there are a lot of weight in this, and of course there would not have been 33 national states, and the United Nations would not be raising it this way unless it was an important agreement. I hope, of course, that this matter of Congress will have its beginning, and I would like to remind you that there are 25 members of Congress who have signed a vow or a promise to work for banning nuclear weapons and who they are. Senators are on ICAN website. I would therefore expect that we would have a large percentage of the members of the council here who actually agree with the case, and I don't really believe that there is any evidence that nuclear weapons will not be banned. I hope that now in the fourth attempt, this case will go through the council and finally have a course. I'd like to be able to vote on this later in the winter. I would like to finish my speech and suggest that the matter be referred to. The Foreign Affairs Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-06-28.u88	President. I hereby recommend a synopsis on national initiatives in public health-related prevention. First, I'd like to refer to the Kompás news show and the coverage that was rather striking, and you could say that he woke us to sleep. You might say that the thing I recommend here is speaking directly into the news and striking numbers about growing overweight amongst Icelandic children. Among other things, thousands of children have been identified as obese, or about 6% of preschoolers, and they increase rapidly. For example, a tenth of the 9th grade is defined as obesity, and a quarter of the Icelandic elementary schoolchildren are overweight, and the percentage is even higher in the country. Obesity has increased substantially over the last five years since the beginning of a consistent analysis in 2014. In fact, our own concerns are that we have not spoken it better before. This is one smell of negative evolution. In general, the nation is taking more energy than it needs, and it is serious in itself. In the past few decades, we have achieved certain results in the battle of cardiovascular events, but this trend and development of what is called diabetes 2 may, in fact, take that benefit back. Then I can refer to an article from the 2010 medical journal that has an interview with a specialist from the Department of Heart Protection in Diabetic Medicine, Bolli Þórhallsson. I'm going to carry down to the interview with him, with the permission of the president: The problem we face is that the benefits of reducing the incidence of cardiovascular disease may simply disappear because of an increased incidence of obesity type 2 diabetes, which is a very high cardiovascular risk. A respectable president. This case may include more factors than I've gone over, and I'm going, because I measure the matter for the first time, to review the proposal than it says: The General concluded to assign the government to appoint groups who are assigned to implement national policies and action programmes in public health - related prevention. The task force provides a comprehensive schedule including in particular: a. for the future vision and goal of improving the people's health, b. defined prevention criteria as international control, c. A definition in areas where public health-related prevention is reached, d. the time frame of the programme, actions, follow-up and review. The aims of this policy will include:Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending a. that the people of Iceland may be measured by their own standards, by one of the most healthful nations of the world, b. to promote public health-related prophylaxis in all policy areas, c. to improve work in the field of prevention and health at school and at work, For example, improve education on prevention and healthy living in all areas of Icelandic society, e. that the educational system, workplaces, and institutions will be physically stable. Health Ministers will inform the General of the Action Programme no later than the fall of 2020 According to one report, the main change in the case since the last time is an emphasis on public health prevention. It is being suggested that the government be assigned to appoint a task force to implement national policies and measures in public health prevention. In force, there is a human health policy until 2030, which has the primary objective that Iceland will become one of the world's most healthy people in 2030. However, it has been pointed out that it is important to update a current policy so that it will agree well with a new health policy adopted by the General Assembly as a conclusion. We review a proposal for a resolution of health policy resolution to the year 2030, which was submitted by the health minister to 149. The legislature council was included. It was pointed out that it lacked clear guidance on prevention and human health. The Society of Nurses even pointed out that the need for a clear discussion of this fundamental component of health care. The importance of improving public health policies in accordance with health policy was stated by the surgeon. The sector of employment points out that health policy does not address the challenges of aging and the increasingly predictable health - care costs. A greater proportion of health care committees believe that the implementation of policy measures will highlight human health and prevention. Over the past few decades, public knowledge of the values of good life has increased, and their relationship with good health has greatly increased. The World Health Organization defines health as perfect physical, mental, and social well - being, not just the absence of disease and health problems. Health is important for economic development and for society as a whole. Worldwide, long - term diseases are a major threat to health, progress, and economic growth. The main risk factors include immobilization, alcohol consumption, smoking, and poor eating habits. Diseases caused by unhealthy lifestyles bring great stress to the health system. The future health costs for the government are likely to increase because of the results of modern living. Research shows that the use of healthcare professionals increases with increasing BMI and the health cost increases on average by 1.9% at each additional unit of the index. It is important that this development be reversed by national campaigns in public health - related prevention that embraces all age groups of society. Prevention aims to prevent disease and reduce its complications. Prevention has been shown to substantially reduce risk factors for chronic disease. The World Health Organization estimates that 80% of cardiovascular events, 90% of adult diabetes, and 30% of all cancer cases can be prevented by diet, exercise and lack of smoke. A healthy lifestyle can prevent much of the heart disease, stroke, diabetes, and other serious illnesses. In an article by Janus Guðlaugsson, sports and health experts, published in Article 4. 104th year. The medical journal says that 98% of health costs are intended to treat disease, but less than 2% are protected. With progressive preventive measures, the need for animals and complex health care can be reduced, thus reducing the pressures on the health system. The results of a new study of Iceland's University of College of Education in Health and Life at an elementary school show that about 40% of youths in the 10th grade experience sadness every week or more and 38% claim to have difficulty sleeping. A number of studies confirm the preemptive value of sports. These show that increased exercise reduces the occurrence of serious medical conditions. Participants of organized sports also reduce the likelihood of abnormal behavior and have many positive effects on learning results, self - image, self - respect, body image, health, and general feeling. In this way, the chances are that the organized activities of an athlete's partner will lead to social benefits and reduce the pressures on the health system. Motion has also been shown to have a positive effect on school and employment markets in the form of fewer sick days and more production. The results of a study conducted in Iceland's High School of Education from 2003 to 2011 show that young people move about as much as they do in their 80's. It's amazing that it's the situation, but maybe it's because older people are moving more. Environmental health report from 2017 shows including that 1 out of 3 adults in Northern countries does not move according to minimum movement recommendations as well in Iceland. It also shows that the proportion of nonalcoholic people increased from 19% to 25% from 2011 to 2014. Arousity is considered to be as high a risk factor as smoking, so it is important to turn this trend around with progressive instruction on the importance of exercise for people of all ages. Young people who experience positive exercise experience are more likely to choose a life - style that involves adult exercise. It must be ensured that all children have the same opportunities for sports and leisure activities regardless of their parents'economic situation as this increases quality of life and is an important part of a healthy life - style. Much about raising the public to think about your own health and well - being and focusing attention on the possibilities each person has for having a positive influence on his own health and quality of life. Special attention should be given to the health of young people, since there is the highest potential for success in this age group. Dr. Guðlaugsson's son, the late Dr. Janus Gullus, of the United Health Department: The way to successful aging shows that a life - style, including a life - style, is active. in this broad range of training, has a broad range of health benefits. The study subjects were 71◯90 years of age. Key findings were that the daily movement of the majority of the subjects was only a fraction of the recommended international health care centres. The results showed some that body mass index and fat mass improved after training and positive changes in muscle mass after training. The study shows that older age groups may benefit in a number of specific physical activity, in terms of premature loss of movement, and maintaining quality of life. The number of elderly people in Iceland is increasing, so it is predictable that future medical expenses will greatly increase. The aims of health - related prophylaxis are a factor in preventing this trend. The key to success in the field of prowess and public health is cooperation and a broad, cross-cutting approach based on knowledge. Public health policies to 2030 show that policies and decisions of state and community are essential for public health reasons and that national health will be introduced on national level. It says that health issues, which constantly pay attention to the impact of public health and health policies, need to be the key factor in all policy activities. In this context, it is important that countries and rural groups work together to achieve their goal. A health - care community is a project of an official surgeon in cooperation with rural society, government agencies, free partnerships, and other bodies. The primary objective is to support communities in creating environment and conditions that contribute to the healthy life - style and well - being of all people. At the 35th Special Assembly of the Apostle Party, 9,◯11. March 2018, concluded that work would have to be done systematically according to established public health policies and would require public health evaluations in which all governmental decisions would be evaluated based on health effects. At the same time, all 50 - year - old health evaluations should be offered preemptively to ensure that all rural communities would be healthy before 2025, and all schools, nurserys, and high school students would be active participants in health - related projects. In addition, the health of the workplace should be enhanced by increased cooperation between the workaholics and surgeon general's office. Prevention needs to include all aspects of the community's health and well - being of all age groups. It is necessary to promote the public health work carried out by a surgeon with increased financial resources to the seminary, such as research, evolution, and the growth of public health funds. This matter, in effect, continues to take on the Agency's conclusions. More emphasis must be paid on human health prevention through the cooperation and support of the health system and the implementation of established public health policies. The increase in government donations is important in the long run so that future health costs can be balanced. Moreover, with increasing emphasis on prevention, we can reduce the cost of health care for the future. Transporters along with me that this proposal is after all. Councilmen: Árnadóttir Kolbeknadóttir, Sigurnsson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Ásgerður K., Gylfadóttir, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Anna, Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson, Helgadóttir Velgaa Helgaóðjónsson S. Brjánsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson. I'd like to thank them for the support of the case, and I think most of us can agree that we have to make the paces of public health prevention so strongly, in all areas of society, as proposed here and in all age groups, that it will fall under national effort. This is needed, and we can successfully do so through cooperation and concerted effort. The role of the government there is initiative by policy, policy development, and implementation of standards so that all work and support will be targeted and effective that is measurable and comparable. That's the main purpose of this proposal.
