ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u1	Borist has a letter from the 6th. Smoke. So, Kolbeinn Francis Óttarsson Proppér, says that he will be absent in the near future in public affairs. A letter has also been received from the chairman of the United Nations Assembly that Friðbjörg Furbjörg of Elíasdóttir's daughter could not attend church meetings in the near future and from the chairman of the House of Independence that the Guðlaugur - appointed Þórðarson will be absent in official affairs. So today, on Monday, November 25, we have a seat at the General Assembly for the 1st Apostle on the left - motion list of green volunteers in the district, Orri Páll Jóhannsson, 1 of the United States Group's list in the Northeast District, María Hjálmarsdóttir, and 2nd Specialist of the Rapiv Independence Party. J., Þorvaldsdóttir Anna Þördirdótttir, while 1st of the lists has announced a pastime. Orri Páll Jóhannsson and María Hjálmarsdóttir have once sat at the General Assembly and are invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u2	AnnaÞorvaldsdóttir has already been investigated and agreed, but she has not taken her place before in the Council, so it is to be signed to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u3	Þorvaldsdóttir Anna Theddolsdóttir has signed her pledge to the Constitution and is welcome to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u4	With letters dated November 22, 2018, the president has requested this, as number 8 1. 13th par. Congress, to the Commission and Control Committee that it deals with the following reports: Digital Public Service ◆ restaurants and Public Radio Ohf.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u5	There have been letters received from the following labourlors requesting every time to provide written answers to queries: from travel, industrial, and innovation ministers for the request on deck. 161, on a travel agency and innovation in tourism; and on a deck. 132, for the support of innovation, both from the daughter of Friðbjörg, Elíasdóttir Flandish. From Minister of Justice for wish to inquire. 317, for the custody and isolation of prisoners, from Eymarsdóttir the daughter of Eymar; and for the threshing floor. 196, on the reasons of the wiretaps from early 2014 from Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson. Finally, from the secretary of state for petitioning. 124, the Ministry's comments on legal opinions; and on panels. 113, on the commitment of the Icelandic government to properly introduced EU types, the European Court of Justice, both from Ólafur Ísleifsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u6	To answer, financial and economic ministers, health ministers, travel, industrial and innovation ministers, social and child - care ministers, marine and agricultural ministers, environmental and resource ministers, and transport and local government ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u7	President. Last Saturday, more than 4,000 people in the East were standing and making clear demands that I feel it is necessary to repeat here at council. First, the requirement was submitted to the highest level. High - quality agricultural and agricultural ministers immediately made their statement of office. Second, the meeting demanded a new and revised constitution adopted by the National Remuneration Act of 2012, of course by the resource directive adopted by the voters. Third, the meeting demanded that interest in the use of common resources from citizens will run into the public's funds for building society and securing the standard for human living of all. President. I'm asking the highest. Ministers, how he responds to the meeting and the requirements set out there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. We've been through this before at the council Hall, if I remember just a week ago. My response to the meeting is no more special than that I intend simply to do my work in the same way that I have done, doing my political work as well as my duties in the Ministry in exactly the same way as my best conscience, being careful, whether it is a special matter or something like that, and simply putting forth effort to do the work that I have been entrusted with. That's my reaction to this meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u9	President. Actually, we didn't have this exact conversation last week, since this meeting was just now on Saturday, for the weekend. I'd like to ask a minister if his attitude has changed since he told me of an unprepared question period last week: I feel trusted. Then I ask: Has his attitude changed? Does he still feel trusted? If not, how many have to express confidence in a minister to change his attitude? V.E.G. Minister can round up to 1,000. It would be helpful to know how many signatures must be collected to help a minister shoulder responsibility and resign.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u10	A respectable president. I feel both trust and distrust like me and politicians do pretty well in our jobs. They're controversial, so there's nothing to say. We put our work in the court of voters, usually every four years. I trust myself to live up to the confidence I have been shown in serving for the Northeast standard but, at the same time, to take part in the work of the Generals for the entire population. I'm just hoping that the work of politicians in Iceland will never be in the way that they won't be controversial. But I will be the first to admit that I have no measure of it especially, as a boy. It seems that a senator has here, when some factor is involved in the number of individuals who do not trust in the senator's work. I'm not the kind of person who would have that kind of count on his hands, and I'd appreciate it if he did. A senator could inform me of the amazing number she seems to have in her hands. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u11	...asks you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u12	A respectable president. I'm going to start by talking about the government's mind, this time at the highest. Secretary of finance. I've got a little access. V.E.G. The prime minister has publicly said that charges against Samherja, on alleged payoffs and money laundering, are a major concern for Icelandic employment, and to shame if the case is true. The government has declared the seriousness of the situation that must be examined into the background. What does it mean to check into your basement? Admittedly, you wonder at the credibility of the government in this case, e.g. Why Samherja's key managers have not been protected to ensure investigational difference. Why wasn't there an immediate response to staging computers and data so that the study interests would not be corrupted? What message does the Icelandic government send to the international community by such tactics? Rather, does the minister's action seem convincing, or does the inaction, to the way Namibia is handling matters? We know that the ocean - fishing minister has a very strong connection with the Samherja. Why is it really not in the position to talk about whether he should step aside, at least during the investigation? But that was not surprising. What I want to talk to the highest. The secretary of finance is that now the local district attorney has requested extra funds to be able to handle the investigation better. I'd like to know how much that amount is. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has expressed it, in the news last night, that it was not on the side that the funds they would return to the investigation. I'm asking the highest. Secretary of the budget: How much is this amount? Does it absolutely say that the district attorney has completely free hands, at least to do what he thinks is right and necessary to do so that we can study the authority that I think we need to do?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u13	A respectable president. I can't agree with this harsh criticism. A senator's office of surveillance shows that she is sorry that the search and maintenance of data has not already been performed. Or is it? A senator may have ideas that the Minister should make such decisions, that even in the council, even in the political field, it is a good idea that making decisions on house hunting, securing data and other such research methods are made? I thought we had come out of all such thinking worlds long ago and would agree that we have established institutions that would make decisions based on the law on such actions. I trust these institutions to do so, and I have no reason to believe that there is anything but pure professionality to determine. The question is whether individual surveillance agencies are sufficiently funded. I have to start by saying I think it's extremely unfortunate that we mix individual research projects and funding, that we here on the political field say on or on whether to finance a particular investigation or not, of or on the basis of this investigation -- no at this one, yes to the other. What kind of nonsense would we have gotten into? We've answered a general request from the head of the tax and the taxpayer for funding due to increased pressures in general. We said we had a reserve to deal with it, a general reserve, after the experiences of a special reserve. Regarding the regional district attorney's request for increased funding due to stress, it will be under way. We believe that if there is unforeseen increased pressures that cannot be dealt with in some other way, you can go to the existing reserve. [[The president calls.]] But I'm not worried that this office will not be given enough money to do the general work assigned to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u14	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for the answer. About what's going on in my mind and if I want him to himself or we're going to take care of the case, I think I'm going to the highest level. A minister simply did not understand what I was trying to say in my entrance. In fact, I was pointing out what was going on with the investigation and what I thought was normal and whether it was not normal to try to prevent the spread of the research interest by not acting as hard as I think this case calls for, as it is growing and the nature of the case, and it is as natural to do. In terms of what these funds are, I was also asking a minister about the amount, but he himself made it known yesterday that there was no need to bring increased funds into e.g. The weight - bearing, weight - bearing projects. All I'm saying is that considering the seriousness of the situation, I think it should be above all doubt how we should get down if we shouldn't look like, I'm not going to say what, in the international community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u15	A respectable president. I'm a financial minister for answers, and I have a question about why it hasn't been placed on evidence and/or after the incident goes to house search. In case of a moment. A senator is asking me that I already have. In case of a moment. A senator is concerned that this has not been done, I view it as a great criticism of the institutions involved. I don't know what the reason is, I don't think it's any, because these institutions are already started, they're having a conversation with those mentioned in connection with the Samherja language, and it's reported that thousands, actually 30,000, documents are available for these institutions online, and they're the basis for all the discussion. This is the best thing I can do when it's right. A senator asks me, "Why haven't you been searching yet? " [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u16	Mr. President. We're some of us who've been getting into this speaker's pack lately, worrying about long health-care lists, such as. Let's wait for replacement surgery. We have been very critical of the lack of agreements with a company within the country that can solve such measures instead of sending people out of the country by the cost of doing such an operation here. So I was very happy to see an interview in the morning edition at the highest. Secretary of finance 20th November. that we, who have criticized this very much, have a soul mate at the highest. Secretary of finance. He is then asked about, for example. These actions and waiting lists and the highest. Secretary of finance says, with the permission of a president: ▪ I've been very critical of this situation. Reports from the health authorities are that the National Hospital should be able to perform the procedure, there is no need to negotiate with third parties, but a flow problem prevents shortening the list. All right, this can be an explanation for a short time. But this is not an explanation that goes year after year. We simply are not handling the limited resources that we have to play. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance because this is in the section of the interview entitled Health Minister: will be the highest. Secretary of finance to submit to the extreme winds in the government that do not wish to negotiate with those who are able to take such action? Or do you intend to be a minister, since I suppose there will be a 3rd. Arriving tomorrow, offering a proposal for financial rights to make such agreements in order to take the biggest case of the company's company's wishes and thus alleviate the suffering of those waiting for this action? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u17	A respectable president. I'm not going to make such a suggestion here on the budget, but I think the task we're facing is completely different. I can tell you what. A senator and I have had discussions about these matters more than once, and I feel that in all respects we are agreed that we should make the most of our money. However, I'm going to say as my opinion that I think that from now on, all too little support has come through the system, and then I think we've been neglecting to build offices at the Ministry of Health that can provide this huge health system of ours properly. We have already failed in the government by putting extra money in the Department of Health, for example, which will hopefully be better equipped to identify the problem that is found in the system. One thing that we can see, for example, when discussing this among hallmarks is that it is very difficult to get information about the waiting list out of the medical system. It is not the case with the Ministry of Health or the government's policy; it is therefore not properly premiumed in the largest health institutions and postnatal events at Medical Insurance. I won't tell myself. Here I may be a bit deeply involved in a group that isn't in my field, but at least it is clear that there is no easy information on exactly what the situation is, and we health secretary agree that it is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u18	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer. I would like to show him that on the land medicine site, there are regular information on the number of people on the waiting list for various measures and advise him to look into whether he cannot see how these matters are. On the other hand, I agree with the highest. A minister for the maintenance and handling of funds in this system is not exemplary. There is a great deal of work to be done there, and it has been revealed. I've been calling for a serious discussion like that. The McKinsey report that was made at the time. I'm sorry to the highest. Ministers do not want to suggest funding for these necessary actions. However, I would like to please him because the middle party intends to take away his trouble and propose a motion on the 3rd. budgets, of course, complete, as well as other suggestions we offer, that money may be spent making agreements with private citizens to take this cow off. [[The president calls.]] I just want to ask a minister: Is it not absolutely certain that he will support our good proposal?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u19	A respectable president. I find it contradictory to complain that we are paying for a trip to a foreign hospital and then say that we're going to add funds to do the same in Iceland. Is it not easier, then, to stop paying for the trip abroad and to use the same money to perform the operation in Iceland? [[Up front.]] They don't need an additional warrant. Otherwise, the Middle Party's budget is a little something in the spirit of other suggestions that have been presented here under the heading: slide away. The overall provision of the Central Party in connection with the budget was on the rights of approximately $2 billion in 1,000 billion, with 10 billion counting 1%. [[Up front.]] That's about 0.2% of the company's moving the budget to get rid of the boat.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u20	Mr. President. It will be one of the most extensive research ever done by the Icelandic authorities. This is a complex matter involving several countries, a matter that will be handled carefully by world pressure and international institutions. As soon as the hearing of the case was received, the United States suggested that the funds for the district attorney and the tax investigator be increased. But what happened in this room? In spite of the obvious need for these provisions, the members of the board responded to the proposal. Then, prior to the weekend, at a meeting of budgetary changes made by the secretary of finance, there was no further proposal for additional funds for the district attorney and the head of the tax on the Sami case. The majority of the legal committee decided the same thing this morning, not a dollar there. This is amazing, considering that the office can detect existing painters, such as the Panama Documents, and let alone when complex international issues, such as the Samaritan case, are added. In fact, these two offices were to have an actual drop in the budget, and further reductions are on schedule for the next few years. It is now reported, however, that the secretary of finance is planning to secure the money. How, though, will this be done? It's not for financial reasons. Is it really better that only the head of the Independence Party, one man, decide whether and how the funding of the Samerja papers will be held? What's in that matter, Mr. President? I remind the Minister that the budget is at the council, not up in the ministry, and that the budget is not the secretary's private staff. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u21	A respectable president. I've been over this more than once. There's absolutely no reason for this office not to be funded enough to carry out their assignment, including this particular case, as inappropriate as I think - I'm just saying right out - that we're discussing it at the General Assembly or to fund special research projects. The institutions under the Ministry of Economic Affairs asked to add human resources. That has been the case. We can do so even. with used or ruined reserves. We have a reserve on the metal party, and then we have the extraterrestrial reserve, which is designed to seize unsurpassed expenses that cannot be dealt with in another way. The exact same is true of a request made by the district attorney, a request dated November 21st, a few days before chapter 3. ... abundant. Of course, she must go in her direction and check the system between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and she will follow the message that it will be positive to indicate that there is a need for additional humanity, following the occurrences of other projects at the office, we, in other words, have funds to ensure that such ablation is marked by the earmarks of these journals. Any claim that this office is in some financial position is illogical.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u22	Mr. President. I don't know any better than a minister said these institutions needed money. They have also made a special request. I call attention to the fact that the minister here refers to the use of reserves, but under law, only reserves can be used when there is no other way to react. We haven't closed the law yet. I find a minister surmisely past the council, and I draw attention to it, asking: "Do people feel perfectly normal that the head of the Independence Party just decides what, whether or who gets the money to investigate the Union case? This is what happens when reserves are used, not financials. It's amazing to be planning on making budgets tomorrow without even assuming a dollar for the Samaritan case. Is that a coincidence? Why don't the government groups want to secure this money in next year's budget? Now the tax attorney and district attorney were to have a decrease not only in the next year under budget but also in 2021 and 2022. So I would also like to ask: Will there be such a fall? Or can we make sure these parties get sufficient funding in a study that can take years, Mr. President? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u23	A respectable president. I'd like to ask myself, " Is there anyone else who's having sex? ' Will a senator propose a investigation? Gonna go for it. A senator bringing in a list of those whom he suggests that the office receive funding for special research? Who, then, are on that list? There is exactly nothing more to be done than that the office will be authorized to carry out its posts, as the next call will be. But, hey. A senator feels that a certain investigation is normal, and that the Council says: "Please accept this, and now go and examine this party there. I'm of the opinion that the office should be independent and make independent decisions about the beginning and end of tests, on charges, etc. Hv. You see, when members of the council call for an investigation of individuals, they are at a very high level of ice in a Senate hall. A senator did earlier today, calling for search and maintenance of data.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u24	Mr. President. The conspiracy has been scheduled, for decades, for debate over the matter, who has custody over the rights to the common marine resources of the people, the nation, or the fishing work, and how the nation is to share a fair share in the richness of these articles. Of course, because the article uses our common resource against a very slight fishing fee, a price estimated to be 5 billion dollars, the year's death. During the next year and as a comparison, Samherji paid double the price of each ton for his fishing grounds in Namibia. A number of attempts have been made to settle the matter. The proposal, of course, is first mentioned by Jóhannes Nordalur's Committee for Resources from the year 2000, which included the provision of markets. In fact, that conclusion was welcomed by the then president of the Independence Party and was never accomplished. Then there is the so - called Peace Committee, which worked in the history of the left government and, in the same way, suggestions for temporary fishing privileges that were provided by the government's consultations on increased prosperity. More important, the presence of the marine dignitary and agricultural minister and the current head of the forward movement in the government of the Independence Party and the forwarding squad tried to make changes in them, but this was rejected by a fellow minister, and the case was never allowed to be handled by Congress. It is clear, then, that the advance company supports the projections and other groups of temporary fishing warrants, while the Independence Party appears to exist as their primary opponent. In view of the fact that the advance party and the Independence Party have been in the government, either one or both, for 32 of the 36 years in the pedigree system, we have been able to conclude that the responsibilities of the Independence Party are the primary responsibility because the forward category is smart. That's why I want to ask the highest. Fundamental Minister and Chairman of the Independence Party: What interest is the category in this opposition to temporary fishing warrants; the nation's interests or interests, more and more, the smallest member of the Icelandic Marine community?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u25	A respectable president. Like what? A senator well knows that neither the head of the forwardee nor the head of the party was needed to enter the Treaty of Independence, Development, and Bears in the future that a temporary arrangement for fishing by contracts would be taken into consideration. That work was not finished. The fact that a person makes comments on a certain process does not mean that he is Catholic against any change in the arrangement we have today. It's just saying it, that's all. But I've always asked myself, when it comes to the ideas of Reunion of a warrant auction, how the sect intends to ensure the scattered possession. As humans demand a higher catch charge, it is clear that only the few large ones will be able to live up to the price and as they intend to increase their freedom through trades, e.g. By offering all of them at any given time, their mobility may be increased, and the likelihood that they will accumulate in fewer hands may be greatly increased. Professor Dand Kristófersson in his day put it this way that the best way to make a large increase in fishing roads, further economics, was to raise the cost of fishing. This ensures that there are fewer sources, but in these days, it is just part of the criticism that the fishing warrants are on too few hands. Then you come out like a dog. A senator up in the public hall, saying: "All authority on the market, let's adopt temporary sources, preconceived and guaranteed free transactions with all bids. Of course, this will eventually lead only to an even fewer and larger group than we see today because everyone in the world sees that it is just the largest of the people who will be able to live under the huge fishing fees that these parties present.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u26	Mr. President. I missed doing the highest. Secretary of finance answered a previous inquiry. Of course, if we look at the exact things that a minister brought upon us, then in recent years there has been an enormous amount of money on sea soil. The article has built up over 500 billion of its own money in about a decade at the same time as an independent party and a forward group have been most concerned with lowering the cost of hunting. V.E.G. During the weekend, a minister of finance told the radio show that he was not personally disturbed by any who had benefited from this journey. Of course, it is not wrong for people to assume that they are working secularly, but it cannot be claimed that they have at the same time enjoyed a reasonable share in the interest of the article. What's that as high as possible? A minister who on Monday calls himself the right man fears that fishing clearances are being offered to 23 at the same time as the candidates for the advance party's proposal in his day would be heard? Is it so that the structure is prepared to pay more for the rights of use, as shown by the examples, including the above? from Namibia? [[The president calls.]] Is it really true that the Independence Party, with its years of opposition to the changes in fishing management, had to do with its activity? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u27	A respectable president. I think I'm correct when I say that reverends have specifically stated that there is no guarantee that a higher price will come of access to a limited resource by means of the auction route, there is no guarantee, it's just a prince's case; it doesn't matter whether a person will pay a higher or lower price, but it just has to attack the market. There is a very big hole in the process of going together and there is some guarantee of taking the information out of the market and ensuring an increased share in providing access to the resource. It just doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u28	...pays more.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u29	This isn't working. What we do know is that as humans have achieved higher management, they have been able to do better. What we know is that 1993 and 1983,1984 were generally very unhappy in Iceland and, yes, that's fine, and it's not surprising to me, but it's not surprising. A senator had to have a bit of an effort to draw out here that it is okay to make a living like other businesses in the country, but this has sometimes been a bit of a big deal at ex - secretary - general. [[The president calls.]] [[The point is, we want the nation to make money.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u30	A respectable president. Istavia's topic has been very recent because of the organization's organizational changes. Part of the work is planned to become a daughter - in - law partner, and Istavia becomes a mother - in - law society around Keflavík Airport. Since the majority of those who attend the country's home come through the country, the coast is opened. So it is monopoly, which has been built up in a single market. How important it is, then, that the field is carefully held, and the sun reveals that it is supposed to be in the hands of the State! It should be noted that the airport plays an important safety role that this portal can enter and out of the country and that, in my opinion, it should be kept in mind with all the decision-making that turns towards the airport. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: What is the position of a minister on these organizational adjustments of Istavia? Do Ministers agree that it is important that Keflavík Airport remain owned by the State? Can a minister confirm that there are no personal development plans for the development of the Keflavík Airport?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u31	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Orri Páll Jóhannsson's request and to save the duration of the council, I'm going to steal ten seconds so I don't have to come and defend myself here in a special answer. I'd like to ask. Residents do not claim to maintain a course of restoration and forwarding, as is the situation in which it differs greatly. [[Up front.]] You know, about a question or two. It is also true that a member of the body assumes that Istavia is a member of the public property and governs business and makes decisions on that basis. As a result, the organization in itself can create organizational adjustments without signing them for transport ministers. This has now been done to gain a better view of the business itself. I can doubt that this is the best way to do this and wonder whether the motherhood is a Cheflavour airport or some other motherhood and that the competition was to form a granddaughter, etc. However, it is the company that makes decisions that are considered strictly correct, and the government's policy in building transport must be consistent with that and the company needs to adapt to it in its decisions and processes. I agree with what. A senator that it is very important for the government to have control and possession of important infrastructures, such as Leifs Station and other important infrastructures, which are monotonous and not even unsupervised. I can also confirm that there is no plans for the current government to be private at Leifs Station.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u32	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister of clear and clear answers is pleased to know that we agree on the importance of the official property of the Cheflavor airport. In a government contract, I would like to ask a minister how he sees the point of that view, i.e. His view, may be manifest in that direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u33	A respectable president. It is true that in the Treaty we deal with this very point and the importance of the State's clear policy with the company because it has this independent basis. There is a general government policy, but the government has been working together with the Ministry of Economics, which takes the stock of Istavia and under the control of this policy of owners. There we can put in things that matter, how we want to see the company working on the plans that the State is working on. Therefore, it is important that the changes in the company's structure are consistent with the tenure and I believe that they can.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u34	Mr. President. I think it's a very serious matter and a reason to adopt at the meeting of the council classes and on the Presidency Committee. Financial and economic ministers repeatedly state that they are not going to abide by the government's laws on public finances. It is totally unexpected that a local district attorney and an tax investigator need more money to handle the big issue of the Union, which extends to at least three countries, to banking, to tax management, to the complex compromises. The institutions themselves have said that they need to be funded and that all they need is to view the banks on the board of unsolved cases to see that they have to get more money to do their job and this complex study. But the highest. The secretary of finance points to a reserve that can be used only in 2020 for something that is completely unpredictable and could not be expected in financial terms. This is serious and we're gonna have to go. Senators need to take this to heart.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u35	A respectable president. I agree with what. paritaprevir It's a whole Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter who wants us to go over to the scene of the leaders of the clans. Also, I feel that it is important to point out that there is an unspoken comment about the problem. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson would like to investigate some more anonymous parties who have no support to increase our faith in the possibility of supporting this office. I point out that, of course, we should strengthen our office permanently in order to prevent more such cases from repeating themselves. Or, after every corruption issue, are we always going to run into some shitty mix and make it enough to learn from experience and make sure that we have defenses to deal with and that we will see through the next gambling town that some Icelandic company will build?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u36	A respectable president. I will ascend and bear my fault in breaking the law of the land. It would be closer to the highest. A president from the U.S. Congress, who makes it known to other members of Congress here at the Senate Hall, to be violating the law. There is no foot, not any foot. Of course, there is nothing more than a political opportunism that would appear to us here at a council hall when men are acting in such a way as to tell the government, the secretary of finance, we intend to employ institutions when we have repeatedly said that we have taken the issue for serious consideration, that we have guaranteed funding for the tax investigator and taxpayer, in accordance with what was requested, and that the request of the district attorney is in order. That men allow themselves to come up here in a political opportunism like the United States is a little tamed up, is just sad for the party, sad for the council, sad for this important discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u37	A respectable president. What is sad is the political opportunism presented here in the case of the secretary of finance. He says that funding for this office is guaranteed. However, it is in fact true that the independent party insists that there is no point in the lack of money. It is rather suggested that there is a lack of funding for the surveillance agencies involved in these activities. Rather than choosing tests that are to be done and which are not to be done, it is suggested that research is being prevented. It is more likely that our research is being prevented by starving our surveillance agencies. Let's be absolutely clear that there is full evidence to support this budget. What is unconvincing is the entire law of the law. There is no cost-and-exploitment analysis, there is no priority of projects, nothing to give us senators a chance to say yes or no about this budget or the financial resources that the government is supposed to have in the next year, nothing. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u38	A respectable president. I agree with those who have come before, and I also point out how serious this matter is, to ensure that money is in the study. We're talking about the profit of an Icelandic company in a very poor African nation so poor today that there is a shortage of food. We are under obligation to ensure financial support, make an assessment, and promptly settle these issues. Therefore, make sure that the money is available and that the matter is completed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u39	Mr. President. I want to say something. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter of what's going on here. We'll see what the law is. In par. 24th. the law on public financial matters is: A financial bill should be arranged for a limited general reserve to respond to temporary, unpredictable, unfortunate, and cannot be handled in any other way according to these laws. I wondered, " Is an investigation of the Samherja language unpredictable in 2020? ' Do we not know that this matter needs investigation? This condition is not met. Second, there is no other way to respond. We can certainly respond in another way; we have not shut down the law, 3rd C.E. The budget is tomorrow. Why isn't there a change in the budget? Why is the council being passed? The government is at the council, not at the highest level. Minister. It is incredibly mysterious, Mr. President, that there is a full battle for approval of the change in budgets to ensure enough money to investigate that case. We're agreeing to add to Iceland's Air Museum for discussion. We're putting money in snow. Why can't we put money on the district attorney and the office of the tax investigator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u40	Mr. President. It's always particularly fun when it's the highest. The minister of finance is going to have a lack of logic. First, he gets those red apples, then he gets pissed off and he starts fighting and then, thirdly, throws shame on the Conspiracy, and all we ever wanted to do was raise taxes, but he might bring her back later. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has repeatedly discussed the budget, and it does not mean throwing responsibility on it. But in this matter, he chooses to take control and divide money as he pleases. Nor does it mean accusing someone of unwarranted remarks because, like a boy, he is a boy. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur spoke of them in Article 24. of the reserve that it can be used if the law does not allow any other action to be dealt with. That's possible, and that's what we're gonna do for the money, and that's what we're supposed to do tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u41	Mr. President. Tomorrow we're going to discuss the budget. 3rd. The budget is due tomorrow, and this is the next year's budget. I think even the highest. Secretary of finance knows that the UN investigation will not end at the end of the year. Therefore, the office of tax research directors and district attorney is required, but in fact, also the office of a Fish Institute, as reported by the National Reconnaissance, to get additional funds to investigate this matter. This is not the time for this, but the other two offices are involved, and it needs to be decided on, at the height, on a financial level. Minister, to the highest. Ministers abide by the laws on public finances. It's not done with some pocket fund at the highest. Secretary of finance, when he finds it acceptable to perform his legal duties. It's just not like that. It's perfectly unannounced that it's only in the highest hands. Secretary of finance to decide whether Iceland's institutions will be funded enough to investigate corruption and payoffs. [[The president calls.]] It's completely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u42	Mr. President. Just like we heard who sat in this hall and listened to the highest. The financial and economic secretary responds to unsubstantiated inquiries earlier, he repeatedly said that he would refer to a reserve for 2020 for an investigation of matters completely foreordained - and there is a violation of public financial law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u43	That's wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u44	It's 24. gr., highest. Financial and economic ministers. [[It's just wrong.]] I'll give it to you here when I read it. The reserve may be considered if expenses are temporary, unpredictable, unavoidable, and cannot be handled in any other way under these laws. If the body of funds cannot agree with a proposal for further funding because the budget has been finished - but that is not the case. [[The president calls.]] We haven't done the budget yet, and we haven't done it as much as we can. The secretary of the budget is doing this by taking the budget from the council and putting it in his pocket. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] We can't accept it and don't.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u45	V.E.G. President. We're going to talk to the 3rd. budgets tomorrow. Since I feel that the discussion to some extent is about using reserves, it was important for me to come up here without making any comments to the President's conference board. We have to distinguish between the general reserve and the use of the reserves of litigators. We also need to remind ourselves that we are still here in 2019, and we are discussing budgets tomorrow by 2020, when we are discussing what is unforeseen and with whom. We can certainly take that discussion here tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u46	A respectable president. I would like to agree with the criticism of members of Congress who believe that their interpretation is the highest. The secretary of finance freely keeps the handling of a reserve. We're talking about expenses due to 2020. [[Up front.]] This is a request for permission to hire people for a study that will take place next year. These people haven't even been advertised. These are predictable expenses next year as high as possible. The secretary of finance is going to be there using a reserve of 2019 C.E. I don't see how this works in a good way with the government law or the law that only whenforeseen, inevitable, and temporary expenses are involved. It is clear that this study can take a considerable amount of time. I don't think it's a good thing, any more than it's ever been done, e.g. With regard to the most feared payoff force in the recent years, the added contribution to the National Church, which has gone through budgets every year, despite everyone's knowing that it was coming. [[The president calls.]] This has never been taken into account in the financial debate for the next few years. [[The president calls.]] This is yet another example of this, since we are simply violating public financial laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u47	A respectable president. That's a lot of nonsense that's going on in the discussion. I'm calling for a president to take some kind of control of this meeting where a minister of law can be accused of lawbreakers, where men ask for the word for President's conference but go to a wide range of areas. The financial institutions have requested additional financial resources because of the pressures presented in 2019 C.E. There are 30,000 documents in these institutions. We've said that we can meet with the reserves of litigators, because of 2020, we have accumulated sources that can move from year to year, ministers can turn money between lawsuits, if people have read the law. And speaking of how there is no other way to react, there is no reference, then. Councilmen who refer to the law as special experts about it, that men could have managed with financial resources. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it is not to suggest that there are no other resources, such as reserves, financial resources, or financial resources that could have come to the aid. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I refer to all the words of the misjudgment of the law to the Father House.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u48	The President has decided that this is a part of the President's conference board. Tomorrow, there is a debate about budgets for the coming year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u49	A respectable president. It was mentioned earlier that members of Congress should be reproved for accusing Ministers of violating government laws, so I'll just do it again and see if the president has anything to say about it. It is quite clear in the law on public financial matters of 2019 that if you are talking about the fact that there should be cumulative sources somewhere in the government accounts and that the reserve should be used at the same time - it doesn't match. [[Strategic control!]] [[Up front.]] We are talking about 2020, too, where it is said that the 200 million who entered the financial programme should be used for these studies, but the 200 million were put in particular to make better use of tax collections. Should they stop it and replace it? It doesn't quite fit. So, as I've always done in the budget so far, I'll keep it completely up again, that public finance laws are not being carried out in the general way in the handling of financial programs and finance, just in general view. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u50	A respectable president. You see, I was going to make a comment at the President's conference board, which recently demanded that this be part of the President's conference board rather than a discussion of the budget of 2020, but people have gone around the world. So it may be a matter of wondering when members of Congress accuse ministers of violating the law and actually the entire body of Congress, if I understood why. A senator who spoke before me, that we were just generally breaking public financial law, I think there's something that we may need to discuss in a special discussion, not in the late issue of Presidential Conference. A respectable president. So I suggest that this is where we continue with the program and stop the political riot that has taken place here on a discussion that will take place tomorrow and even the following day, if so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u51	Mr. President. Clearly, this discussion is exasperating the highest. Secretary of finance, but it doesn't make any difference that this payment is not particularly acceptable. It's totally predictable that this office will need more money next year. This is not a failure, and it appears that the government is trying to avoid the fact that it agrees with a suggestion here at 2 Corinthians 3: 1. budgets for the increased financial support of these offices and are now making some preparations for the use of reserves to meet all the anticipated expenses next year. [[Up front.]] I don't think it's a good thing. I don't think it's in a good way with official financial law, and I don't think it's a good idea in this important matter that this office, which is supposed to be independent of its jobs, is subject to a good government whether it receives needed financial contributions or not at the time of the council's request to grant these documents a special fee is denied by a greater part of the council. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u52	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. President very much for his good conference board here today. I'm sorry to the highest. Ministers of finance are thus to attack the President of the entire Generals. I'm very sorry to see what's at the top. The secretary of finance seems to be a little out of tune in this discussion, attacking the President of the Parliament, and knocking at the door. I don't really think it's acceptable for this discussion. We're here discussing the necessary funds to investigate one of the biggest corruption cases here - we're discussing it to the highest level. Minister's gonna take some money from some reserve and we're--I'm sorry, I can... [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[Foreground on President's Conference Board.]] [[Up front.]] [[The point is, don't talk about reserves.]] [[For example, stop this discussion, it's a total mess.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u53	It's embarrassing. It's embarrassing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u55	The president asks senators to be moderate in their speech and to be perfunctory under this part of the program, asking for a meeting board of presidents.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u56	Thank you, chief. President. Clearly, there are more than the highest. Secretary of finance is inconceiving this discussion. [[The point is, it's obvious.]] Hv. The members of the administration party are also very out of tune. [[The president calls.]] I wish to finish, but it's clear that, suddenly, some of the funds are being moved between parties, and it will be very interesting to hear from tomorrow's discussion which institutions need to put in even more sails when they are going to move money between classes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u57	The President is still on trial for what? Senators are covering the President's conference board under this team.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u58	Mr. President. I don't in myself make comments to the President's conference board for a while, but I think there's a reason, in terms of why. paritaprevir Bryndís daughter Haraldsdóttir's early words to express that I'm kind of agreeing with her. Perhaps it is time for us to realize that ever since government financial laws were accepted, they have been thrown into empty nonsense because this general reserve system is not working. This specialized reserve system is abuse of hipsumhas, and most important of all, these laws were taken by members of the Congress, the legal body of government, which is very serious. Perhaps we should view this as an example of the fact that there is something important about public financial matters. Let's film it, fix it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u59	A respectable president. V.E.G. The minister of finance made a sound saying that the Ministry, or he, or whatever you would like to say, had broken the law when it comes to public finances. Hence, it is reasonable to conclude that we are prepared to discuss the chairmanship of the president. I think it's ridiculous to make comments. The case is of the highest importance. The secretary of finance said both of the President's conference administration and in his reply in the past. A senator. There is nothing new about the violation of public financial laws. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson has repeatedly referred to it and requested that it be fixed. It is not in itself new to put laws that are not applied at the expected time. There's nothing new about it. The only thing that's new here, a respectable president, is this tireless demand of the Independence Party to draw on other senators when they start talking about something as high as possible. A government dislikes, or for some reason it is unpleasant to feel sorry for it. That's all that's new to this. A respectable president. V.E.G. A minister must be subject only to discussing how the law is being carried out. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u60	President. I find it important that I have been present for several conference talks since I arrived at the council, and I have never seen such knowledge that the president of the Senate only before for his work, so I would like to say that I feel that it is kind of an unacceptable behavior to be presented in that way. We're discussing important matters, and I've never seen them like that before. I just want to leave it here after I find it unacceptable. It seems to me that the insults of the Independence Party have spread to everyone else in the government groups, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u61	Mr. President. I have to say about that as a matter of course. A senator before me said that it has, unfortunately, happened earlier that words were addressed to the president in an irresistible way, and that is not to be followed. In terms of public financial laws that have become a subject of today, I want to remind you once again - and I encourage senators to take it along with me next time we found a president - that it has been possible for us to take over the law in a large agreement on that, including, We'll go through what we can do, how we've been doing it, how we've been doing it, how we want to change things. I have concluded that it is very important that we do so because we also differ in the interpretations of various aspects of the law. Over that shall we sit, as I say, in large consultations and make it proper.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u62	A respectable president. It's good to start a discussion about electricity in such an electric atmosphere, and I hope it will work. The national share of energy resources and the transport pathways of electricity are also present. Yet, when it comes to transporting electricity to their homes, people do not share the same level. It depends on where they live. There are two registrations in the country to transport electricity, i.e. for rural and urban areas. The emissions of electricity have increased more than urban areas in recent years, and it is apparent that the current equation costs are well beyond recovery. Now it's about time 1 percent higher in rural areas, despite the equivalent of the budget set to cover the distribution cost of electricity in the country. In the 2003 electricity law, income limits were inserted, in the maximum annual pay of transport companies and diffusers to cover costs. Thus, there was a basis for separation between urban and rural areas in currency, followed by an equation that was to be used to balance this difference. The ever - increasing cost of electricity distribution is that the rural population and the need for investments and the need for renewal are greater in rural areas than urban areas, as well as under the efforts of electrical initiatives. This results in an increased difference between urban and rural prices. But where is equal, and of course human rights to sit at the same level when energy resources are involved? On springtime, the Supreme Work force ended. Tourism, industrial and innovation minister of his work by publishing a report dealing with electricity transport to rural areas. It presents an even range of cost. It shows that humans did not foresee how rapidly this difference grew beyond the criteria given in calculation of the initial equation. The difference is still increasing. The report presents a number of ideas for the work force to fix this difference. A respectable president. As I said at the beginning of my speech, there has never been a legal arrangement to discriminate people about access to electrical energy based on where they live in the country. This inequity, however, is a fact, and we must begin to correct this distinction, and it remains right away. The Government Treaty states that electricity transport and distribution systems must better meet the needs of industry and the public throughout the country. Those who are planning to go to high - energy jobs in rural areas, such as tourism, gardening, or small industry, need to think twice before going into business, so that homes that live in this situation are not spoken of. We also have a new disposal building program showing that the goal is to promote an even higher energy cost to rural and urban areas, both in distribution of electricity and house - to - house expenses. The present government certainly has the will to meet this difference. Then I ask the highest. Minister: How do the work of the Ministry of Employment with the Power Agency aim to identify and find the most practical way to level the external costs of electricity? What effect does a minister believe that the distribution expenditure of electricity is the unit of distribution? This is one of the proposals to report an electrical transport group to rural areas. Does a minister think that income limits due to the cost of transporting electrical energy to the diffusers are an instrument in order to equalise the cost of electricity? Who considers a minister to think that the benefits of the network of electrical expenditures are the result of high-energy activities in the rural community?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u63	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A member of the Parliament for setting up a special discussion on the exchange costs of electricity. This is an important matter that the government has highlighted. I will seek to answer the questions as easily as possible. A senator has submitted. Thus, regarding the office of the Ministry with the Power Institute, it is to say that there have been, in fact, some ideas for consideration, first of all, to disseminate from rural tax files and urban payments and combine them. I've been inside this before. Such a procedure involves significant structural change and has its advantages and weaknesses. The biles are hidden from the heart. in that diffuse hosts are motivated for convenience and moderate investments may be reduced, transparency reduced, and a new transfer system needed to be established. A United currency would translate a modest rise in urban records but a significant decrease in rural areas. The benefits would especially be that the need for special equations would disappear, and the cost of pay would be permanent, regardless of the population. Another way to increase the equation is to increase the equation rate. Similarly, this would mean a modest rise in urban records but a significant decrease in rural areas. To achieve the full equation, i.e. That rural areas will become a pair of farms to the most expensive urban population, it will have to double the current equation that would provide the billion or as far as the list is concerned. These two ways are marked by a slight increase in urbanity and rurality in emissions of electricity, and it is expected that urban users, especially those using considerable quantities, will take this to a poor degree. We have made changes in the environment so that for example, rural greenhouses have been able to define themselves as living in urban areas, so this would, for example, be defined as urban. affects people I consider most unlikely to be popular. A third way that has been considered is that the billion that are missing in all respects or in part will be financed by a joint fund of the country's financial resources. This was the first arrangement, beginning in 2004, which was changed when the equation was adopted in 2013. One possible application would be that what is lacking would be taken up by government - owned energy companies, who have been advised that the activations of land activations are out of urban areas, and some people believe that a part of the profits will return to the rural area in this way. Similarly, there has been an idea of temporarily financing some of the things that are missing from the full equation to the Rarik and Energy farms of the West. Hence, there is a link to the proposed sale of the Raikks and the Energy Company on their parts in Landsnet, now in the state of thought and preparation. Parts of that revenue might be used as a contribution to equal distribution costs within this dispersible host. Work to identify these possibilities, they are many, and they are different, and there are different benefits and defects with each one, well along the way, and I expect more of them to be expected in the weeks ahead. About another question. Of course, a senator, as to the unity of the dispersal hosts, has been a consideration in connection with the idea of a common currency. Today, there are six dispersible hosts in the country and two of them, the Rark and the En en english Westfjords, both urban and rural records. Others only have one. It is likely that the Unites of Raiks and the Powerbus could provide a specific economy, which could result in a decrease in spread costs within these hosts. Surely, there is something to consider better than the right to make a decision that has not been set on such unity, and no decisions have been made there. Third, in terms of the income limit, the Energy Agency puts the diffusers and the Landsnets on income limits within and the income limits are sure to influence, but the government does not directly influence their calculations, so they are not tools in the sense that governments can use them to level distribution costs. Fourth, the benefits of working for a job, I consider that the exchange cost of electricity can be of great importance to a wide range of commercialities on a national level. Today there is too much difference in the cost of energy left. He has grown, and the examples show that this difference is a new business in rural areas. I've come to realize in the past that I consider this one of the most serious defects in the regular work and arrangement we have today in the field of electricity. It's my priority to find ways to make it better. So we'll be able to keep up with what is stated in a five-year financial program, that the share of electricity distribution costs will increase over the next few years with rural interests and urban development in mind. However, when we consider a route, more than one, and more than two are involved, with different advantages and defects. The work is going on and I hope it works fast and fast and that we get results from these analyses as soon as possible and then we can make the rest, but the goal is crystal clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u64	V.E.G. President. Thank you for your discussion, and thank you very much. paritaprevir The Signý's Halla, Signor KristoffKristjánsdóttir for bringing this up. This has been examined for a long time, and various measures have been initiated to meet the variable cost of electricity in the country. Especially do I think of cold areas. For some reason, this work has not reached good ground, much less than tens of thousands of dollars a month in difference. All I want to do is kill down questions to the Minister and answers to those that were distributed in the fall. It asks: How much would it cost a government fund to pay electrical heating to house - to - house housing in the areas used by electric heating or hot fever so that the cost of users at house - to - house heating would be comparable to the average cost of house - to - house heating in the area of Reykjavík, Akureyri, Egressium, and Shelphoss? The answer says: Electric prices are divided into two parts: distribution and transport, and then energy sales. The distribution and transport are determined by special transport to the activity in the affected area. As a result of this arrangement, the State comes to pay off the cost of user uses on electrical prices to house - heating. The other part, the energy dealer, is in a competitive market, and the law has no authority to deal with it. That's where the knife in the cow stands. The energy agency is in a competitive market, a cohesive energy package two which was approved here a few years ago and was exposed to energy pack three here this summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u65	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. The proconsul, the Hair of Halla's Signý's Kristjánsdóttir, for bringing this very important matter to the attention. It is important if we want the country to be inhabited that it is equal for its inhabitants, no matter where people choose to live. One important factor is the equation of electrical energy, which involves both, homes, and jobs. Today's situation is, in fact, completely unacceptable and highly uneven in the system. This is to be made clear in a report by a rural electrical group, but the cost of mass and transport at the most expensive urban income has increased by 44.5% but in rural areas has increased by 102.8% in Rark and 117.3% in Ennis Vestjörður. This is particularly effective in areas where electricity - based housing, such as Eastern Europe and the West, needs to be fueled. Granted, there was a step in the right direction when the subsidies were increased, due to the distribution and transport of electrical energy by house warming, but much better is needed if we want all the inhabitants of the country to sit at the same table. Likewise, rural companies live at higher cost of electrical energy than their local competitors to urban areas. Mr. President. The fact is, if it were a real will for the government to promote a structure and a career outside the capital area, it would have been slow to change this long ago. It is not the evil European Union that determines that this should be so, but it is in the hands of the government and the Generals. The financial resources that we're applying are the means we're paying off the transportation costs of electricity, and we're certainly supposed to do better, and we're going to do that to people at least. Not harder to live where they want to live.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u66	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir The Halla of Signý's Kristjánsdóttir for this discussion. I was so lucky to be given the opportunity to join the Minister's Work force for an amendment of electrical transport systems with emphasis on trifuncation. One of the results of the group was that it was important to speed up the development of the three-phase distribution system. Sadly, in terms of the distribution-side of the distribution system, as we know, the rural and urban markets are constantly disintegrated, and the current equation is far from equalizing this difference. Iceland and I boast a great deal of our green and cheap electricity, but the quality is divided between rural and urban areas. The task force discussed ideas on the combined charges of electrical energy and the combined supply of food in rural areas. I think it's a key factor in this discussion, and there's equal access to electricity as very important to ensure a wide variety of countries around the country. You see, it's not that, because it's Christmas coming, everyone can take a shower on Christmas Eve, since the tank may not be exaggerating and electricity is consumed. There are various companies with one currency for the country, but it obviously has a high and rising cost of ferrying goods, energy and food, all over the country. It may also be said that these inequities are very costly. That happened last year, by 2.3 billion dollars. in the subsidies of house warming costs, stocks for new heat sources and energy saving measures. In order to balance the cost of house warming fully, donations would have to be increased by nearly 800 million so that the cost of an apartment house - to - house heating would be comparable to the average cost in Reykjavík, Akureyri, Bulgaria, and Selofos. A minister came into the interest. I believe there is a way that can be used temporarily. There's a lot of difference between them. The cost of living in rural areas and urban areas, if it is a political one. I'm glad the Minister's bill of changing the law on the exchange costs of electricity is on the Constitution and it's the highest. A minister pointed to this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u67	Mr. President. There have been a number of factors here, though there may also be a great deal of general discussions about electricity costs, house - to - house expenses, and so forth. But it is clear that it is more expensive per user to provide electricity for rural areas, and it is simply because there are fewer users per square km or what unit it is. As a result, this is a question of geographic policy. It is and will be a political decision at any given time whether and how to equal the cost of distribution. So it is really only with the government of any time if these are not in any way that people might like to have. Since 2010, there has been an increase in the share of urban and rural costs. Before 2010, this has been quite close to each other, but since then the gap has increased, and the gap has increased considerably and is still increasing. It was another turning point in 2015, and it may be possible to find out what the cause was. But what I find really key to the discussion at this point is - and now I appreciate it as the highest. A minister said before - is that if it's the government's will to deliver electricity as a market, it would be good to make it clear. It doesn't sound like it's our goal, but if we have to have that discussion, it's different from what we're doing. In any case, so far, I understand that distribution of electricity is not marketed but is part of the general infrastructure. At the same time, we must be clear that the cost of distribution is equal to that of the political decision to make that happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u68	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Lord's Halla, Kristjánsdóttir, for bringing up the matter of this important matter. It is urgent that we discuss it regularly. Happily, this has attracted the attention of the United States council several times. Then, of course, you can ask yourself: " How much is being done? But I still want to agree that I think a minister is trying to figure out exactly what he can do on these matters. However, I would like to wonder about us here and the question of whether the priority, when it comes to electricity in the region, should not be the main issue of electricity security and distribution. I think that in the big film it should be our priority that it is safe for employers, small, medium and large companies to be able to pursue employment or simply for the people of the country to be able to do household service, cook well-food, etc. We know that both the Eyjafjörður and the West, which I especially want to draw out, are not so lucky to live with the same absolute energy security as urbanity, i.e. We're in the Big-Hyperts zone. This has a far greater impact on the settlements than is the cost of electricity because this lack of electricity has a much greater impact on the daily lives of the people in the region. I know it's the highest. Minister has his finger in the pulse of this material. Although the environment may be reversed, the priority in electronics is that a company can thrive and that we can convey the energy to the whole country, not just part of it. That is why we must put the electrical security and, including, the public system in first place. We need to make sure that these systems are designed so that, wherever they are located, the inhabitants of the country as well as the businesses of the land can walk to safe and effective electricity. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u69	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Give Halla's Kristjánsdóttir a compliment for her discussion and the minister for participating in it. The discussion is very necessary, but what really surprised me when I began considering these matters was that it seems to have been with people far back in time. In fact, in 2015, one of the campaigns of the forward party in elections was to balance this cost. It does not seem to have worked out, which is kind of strange if we think about it. Although we are a small nation in a large country, I find that electricity and heating costs are one fourth higher in the country than in the capital area. You don't understand. Furthermore, I agree that if we have to balance this cost and get some money for it, it's probably just taking them off the money of the continuum transfunctioner. They're all in the country, so it tells itself that there should be a slow recovery. Then, too, I would like to point out an interview with the president of the 2018 Communicator, who speaks of the fact that electricity companies have to pay more for use, just because they work in rural areas. That's what we're talking about, the greenhouse producers that produce food, and we're looking at it because they produce eco-friendly foods. The foods we produce with energy within the country and with heating do not need to be imported. It tells us that we are also saving carbon tracks and other activities that must be one of the goals in this context. It seems to me that there should be equal energy prices everywhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u70	Mr. President. Thank you, too. The advocate of her initiative in this important discussion. However, I would like to recall the extraordinary injustice that occurred in 2003 when it was decided to have two income limits in the country for rural areas and urban areas in the Raikks public area. I just want to make it clear that before the urban population had been replaced and built up, and the rural areas had participated in it. Then came this divorce in the legislation, and we were assigned to the rural area to carry one of the structures there. It is important that we keep that in mind. There can be no nation to honor, which is on the speed of energy exchange, not taking this aspect more intensive than we do today, and therefore I welcome the words of the Minister earlier that we are looking for ways to do it and that we really have a number of options to deal with it. I know that job pretty well. You see, it can't be that way in the country of the energy exchange that we're going to have such discrimination. If that doesn't work, I'd like to refer to the energy sources we're trying to reduce to our targeted use of gasoline and diesel, since we've set an equation system for the entire population. A respectable president. There is also some evidence that the need for funding to level the cost of distribution is diminished because we have reached steps to build these systems and to renew them in the rural area. For this to work, the owner himself must have a much stronger control and clear policy for the companies he owns. The public, in fact, has all the key companies in this market, and when we have been with this legislation for 15 years, it is time to go over the stage, and therefore the corporations and companies in this area that we have, and to make up for the purpose of their service, and how we can use the more money in them to achieve the selfish goals we speak about here. [[The president calls.]] A minister made that very clear in his speech, and I agree wholeheartedly with it and support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u71	A respectable president. We are still talking about an equation of energy costs, but we now have three solutions at the highest level. Minister and I believe that success is soon achieved. To me, the matter is simple. All the people of the country should pay the same price for the distribution of electricity. Electric energy is produced in many parts of the country. To produce it, we use a common resource and diffusers are most of the public property. The network was built up over a long period of time, and it has to be kept in place and added constantly. Homes and employment in rural areas should live under the same conditions as in urban areas. It should be the same competitive situation. I think we're supposed to combine rural fees and urban fees to one, and we're supposed to do it right away. As the system is now, everyone loses. The electric companies lose customers when employment fails because of a less competitive attitude in the rural area, either stop the energy - consuming business or move to urban areas. The partner loses, as well as employment and innovation because to get into the urban budget, energy consumption has to be very high. Fewer and fewer are under the cost of building and maintaining the rural population. Of course, raising total electricity prices to those living in the urban budget by some millenniums a year is true. But what is the obstacle? Are we afraid of misleading discussions that have taken place in recent times, e.g. in connection with the payment of a pack of three energy? We must not allow that kind of discussion to prevent the external costs. When all pay the same price for distribution, it must immediately be easier to balance the house - to - house expenses in cold areas and shape the targeted and transparent support environment for energy costs and environmentally friendly production, such as vegetable production. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u72	Mr. President. I'd like to thank you for this important discussion, and I'd like to take the initiative. Kristjánsdóttir ThatSigný why it's very important. It is important that the country all sit at the same table when it comes to the quality of life involved in living under cheap electrical prices. It is also time for the inhabitants of the scattered settlements to sit at the same level as residents in urban areas in terms of electrical prices, and it is very special and really undefeated that those who live near the source of electricity, such as the one near the source of electricity, e.g. in the South, near activations, and under electrical lines that carry energy to the capital area in the southwest corner, the cost of energy should be higher than that of those who live far away. This case is also linked to EU energy panels because energy packages one and two made it necessary to divide the distribution and sale of electricity, resulting in an increase in one intake, an increase in 10%, and further increases. You can't disagree with that. Companies responsible for the distribution of electrical energy into urban areas and rural areas have two different requirements, as mentioned, one for the distribution of electricity into urban areas and the rest for the distribution of electricity into rural areas. Despite government subsidies, so - called rural development, rural electricity prices are still higher than urban electricity prices. This must be changed, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, but it was shown in her case that she will have this as a priority, and I know that she is very interested in improving the situation in this very important case. [[The president calls.]] Also, I want to take this opportunity to encourage the highest. To put more money and more energy into searching for hot water in cold areas, a minister has given good experiences, such as. of Nesum, Cape, Hornfjordur. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u73	I don't know. The senator should respect the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u74	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Lord's Halla, Kristjánsdóttir, for bringing this important matter to the attention. This is an important global community and interests issue. I can agree with things that have been discussed during this discussion, but I will focus my eyes on the short time I have at the vegetarians in this country. The opportunities to increase food production in Iceland are many. Most greenhouses in Iceland are located outside urban areas, thus the distribution of electricity and costs and the equation between rural and urban areas is of utmost importance. In my opinion, it is necessary to meet gardening farmers with subsidies of transport costs, but this cost makes it difficult for many. Especially the unforeseen situation is bad. Some farm farmers who are ready to perform and have increased investments and more production have not taken the risk of borrowing, as this may result in lower subsidies from year to year in the agricultural contracts, which could not be prepared for enlargement. It is the choice of the government and the council how much we would like to pay off the transport costs of electricity in Iceland. We can balance the situation so that when it comes to the competition and business of our companies and homes, everyone is at the same level. If we are to succeed in our fight against global warming, we must change our eating habits. Our strengths for increased vegetable production are impressive in the form of renewable electricity and geothermals. We should let technical knowledge work with us to increase and facilitate the production of vegetables in this country, as well as equal electricity prices and subsidies.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u75	Mr. President. We're here discussing a lot of justice, the equations of electricity disposal. It has been a struggle for as long as I can remember for the population of the continent that the population is equal in cost of house warming and electricity, seen from home to house. This is one of the basic needs of the population and the source of energy is of our common resources, all the people of the country. Sadly, rural tax records have increased rapidly compared to urban areas in recent years. The payoffs to equal the house - to - house heating costs have increased, but it takes more to balance fully, and the distribution costs are not sufficient to cover distribution costs. I would've liked to see that big industry come in there too in that equation. V.E.G. The minister came in on some of the exports that I think are very good at looking even further because we need to begin to complete this journey. The stairs have been many good steps in this direction, but we need to do better. We now place more money on equal circulation costs than it takes, as a minister mentioned, an additional 1 billion so that it is fully equal. It takes a political will, and I think he's there, and we have to walk fast in that road. We can watch the phone, there's one currency for the whole country, we can watch the whole country's store, where it's worth the same thing, and even the oil companies have the same price all over the country. The State has to set a good example as we're going into energy exchanges and showing that we're not the soles of the oil companies in keeping energy costs, since we have this resource that we can use to produce eco-friendly and green energy, electricity. Home and employment are paying off in worse housing conditions, and the competitiveness of the workplace is undermined by the fact that these inequities are still present. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u76	Mr. President. It's fine that this discussion is done, and it's fine that we take it regularly. Of course, the electrical distribution system has to be leveled, and of course we should watch the development of vegetable prayers, etc. It's a little rough to hear people repeat what's been over and over again, that this significant increase that has happened has somehow been linked to the energy bags. It only takes to examine the time line to see that the two elevations, i.e. The big prop points, both were exposed to the uptake of the energy package at the time. It's fine that we're out of control one more time. I wondered, though, that we are now looking at some trials in the energy biofuels, in the Western Islands, and on the Smokeynes and the slow way in which they are built, especially to the scattered settlements that do not yet have access to a three-phase electricity system, what has changed to the world's economy since we built up the electricity distribution system at the time and until now that makes it difficult for them to do so. You see, I don't think anything else has changed but maybe people want to contribute money to the structure that is clearly needed. When we talk about cost, we may want to increase the cost to charge people in a way that everyone really agrees is unfair, but people make changes in registrations in that way and the result is that people in the scattered areas pay more than they once did in the urban population. I say, like I said in the first speech, it's about political will, it's about political decision. It is not wrong for anyone else to be hurt, but it is the rulership that prevails at any given time if people disagree with what this looks like. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u77	A respectable president. We're still discussing the equation of electricity costs in the country, and I don't think we need to worry about that because in an article as the highest level. The minister wrote June 16th. says the word, with the permission of the president: To this day, my opinion is inconsistencies with the aims of electronic energy, as well as the laws on the equations of the cost of the release of electricity. This inconsistencies is one of the most serious failures in the electricity market we have set up here. The proposal to change this is in the processing of my Ministry. I assume the job is in the final meters and I'll be here soon. In this context, we know that it's up to us consumers, energy exchanges, and climate. What I'm worried about is what some vegan farmers have described, that it's self-reflect if the ups to attack them become reality, and there's nothing to be done about them. We have to figure it out, and I think I say on behalf of most people that if you are faced with the choice of getting Icelandic production or foreign, you choose Icelandic. She's better. It is also very strange that at the same time as we have very favorable electrical agreements with aluminium production, silica and all such productions, we should not have as favorable agreements on food production. I'm just saying, why not? Why is it not the same when it comes to our food production, which would save us import into food apart from how good it would be for our climate track and so on? There's a lot of money. Why do we not see just to that? If something is, vegetarians should have a lower energy price than ever contaminated aluminium, silica, and such production.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u78	A respectable president. Thank you. Councilmen who have addressed the discussion for participation in it and at the highest level. Minister especially for his answers. I think the exit point is quite like we've talked about and I'll join you with what. paritaprevir Haraldur, the son of Benediktsson, that this is an injustice. It was on, and somehow we need to turn it off. This may lead to increases in some areas, but we are talking about the competitiveness of the rural population. As noted by several members of the Parliament, food production is mainly done in the rural area. When we talk only about the competitiveness of the workers in the country, we must talk about them all at once and not just make a closer break between urban and rural areas. V.E.G. A minister came in on some of the developments she's been considering, and I know it's been a lot in the discussion and a number of ways to consider, but it has to speed it up, and that's why we're taking this up over and over again, although we know some of the answers to the questions. We're looking for a constant disintegration of the operation, and we've got to speed it up.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u79	Mr. President. It's true that we talk about it all the time, and I think that even though I wanted us to be more at work and if we were already there, and if we had already agreed that the finish is also healthy and nice, we'd take the regular discussion together because we're working this thing. This discussion is important, and it is a blessing to know that there is a powerful parapolitic reconciliation that this need to be corrected. That's why I appreciate the discussion. Hv. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson traced the story well. It was a conscious decision to go this way, so we're stuck with the position we're living with today. All sorts of things were entered. Hv. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson listed to make electrical prices. The production, electrical prices, and agreements for energy itself are all in a competitive market. That's why we're not in charge here. Also, the distribution was only tore. Hv. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy asked if it was definitely so that she wasn't in a competitive market. That is correct, the distribution is not in a competitive market, it is a special obligation to work and no competition there. That is why we have the opportunity to enter it in the way we are discussing it. Of course, it's about real freedom to the farm, and this is part of an effort to level the cost of electricity, is a factor in the fact that there is real freedom to live. Hv. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson also mentioned his familiarity with this work. That's even. Because he himself is actively involved in this case through the work that has taken place and with the Power Institute and Specialists of my Ministry. Then, only the transport system was entered. It's just another thing, and it's not a lack of capital, but it's taken way too long to build it up. There are many reasons for this. The situation as it is now is simply a system defect, the most serious fault of the rule work, and one of the positive things that has come out of this work is that the latest projections show that the need for rural populations to rise to a limit in the coming years, so this does not call for all this equation to the long future, but we are about to go to the top and then it will be even better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u80	A respectable president. I have a direct inquiry to the highest level. The Environment and Resource Minister who reads: How will Ministers promote carbon emissions information that will not be more than six months old? There's a reason I put this forward. I'm aware that the highest. Minister will probably answer that -- I'm trying to guess what the answers will be - that the EEA has already been assigned to publish emissions until the next two years, and I want to stress that it's fine and it's good, but it's only a forecast. Predictions are not based on final data. Of course, they are very helpful, but we need results sooner based on real information and much sooner than we do right now. I'd rather see that we don't get real information later than six months after each New Year's Eve. The government's information supply needs to be reinforced, so the public knows much more about the real world. I'd like to ask along the way if a minister doesn't agree with me in this matter and approach. We know it's possible to do better than that, and I know it is. The environmental minister is eager to represent such tactics. I also think, especially in the light of many discussions from all kinds of groups and people, that better information, more quick information is power to the general public, especially young people. Our young people want to see action, preferably immediately. We must try to present answers and solutions as soon as possible. That is why information is important, but in my opinion, it is now particularly important to these groups of people. It would be helpful to have the information in time in our relationships, i know, e.g. to the maximum. A minister spends every day interacting with climate denialists. This helps to provide information as much, reasoning, and information as close as possible to time. Therefore, I urge a minister, and I want an answer from him as to whether he is not going to expand information, not just point out, and have some projections until the next two years, but how he intends to improve his intelligence and whether he is not going to bring it closer. I think it would be in the interest of all the environmental talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u81	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator is eager for a good inquiry. First, Iceland, like other countries on greenhouse gas emissions and carbon binding accounts, may be said to have high demands, and it is important to maintain tight grips on it as far as water is concerned. A senator came in. The book has to do with Iceland's international commitments and helps us direct measures toward bringing the greatest benefits to the climate. It is also important that information delivery is reliable and clear. Climate discussion has increased dramatically during the last year, and it may be difficult to throw angry at talking about emissions and what they mean, e.g. On Iceland's commitments. Legally, it is the EEA that is responsible for holding off the release of Iceland and returning it to the rest of the UN climate agreement and the European Union. Annually, a large report is sent to the Climate Convention. The book is also published annually on the basis of the contract, and comments are made if you are not sure. There are many others, especially land transplants and forestry, who are responsible for land - related accounts of emissions and carbon exchanges. The EEA needs data from a number of sources, such as Energy Institute, Iceland's Organization, Food and Business. I'll name it to give you an idea of the scope of the accounting. I think I can claim that there is no information collection in the field of the environment as much and as good criticism as the climate accounting. The Environmental and Resource Ministry has received requests to provide information on Iceland's emissions until now and has directed them to the EEA. The Agency has then noted that there are high requirements for this publication, that information comes from many sources, and that work is carried out by dates and processes laid down in the laws and regulations and in the international commitments of Iceland. In addition, changes in numbers from entering and until accounting and reporting are submitted to the climate Treaty. Because of this, the EEA has been reluctant to publish figures earlier. I have a certain understanding of this, and it seems that it is difficult for me to publish reliable national data on Iceland's emissions before it is done. However, it is a question of whether or not a preliminary issue on certain factors can be submitted earlier. This is where I would like to mention emissions from fuel use which could be of great value in the management of transport energy management measures, which are also critical. This could be done in advance of accurate food later on. I think it should be considered correctly because the demand for clear and timely information within the country has grown with increasing interest in climate. Therefore, I will ask the Ministry's staff to examine this in cooperation with the EEA and thereby agree. Senator, I don't think we agree on this and the importance of this information being immediately on hand in time. I'd also like to point out in the context that Iceland's Haggis has intensified her work on climate and is now regularly publishing statistics about emissions. It uses other sources of greenhouse gas emissions than the EEA uses. Economic group is in accordance with international economic standards, while the EEA supports the guidelines of the climate agreement. Both are correct, but I've had the impression that this different presentation caused confusion. This is not good, for we need to present information to the public and interested people so that they are clear and understandable. So I've asked the Ministry to review this issue with the EEA and the Organization, with the objective of harmonizing information or at least Explaining why numbers seem different. It is not just a matter of getting numbers earlier, but it needs to be presented clearly and accessible. I say again, I think we're gonna what we're gonna do. A senator would agree on the point under discussion and thank you very much again for your inquiry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u82	A respectable president. I want to take advantage of this opportunity to agree with the highest power. Minister and minister. A senator who presents this inquiry about the importance of such information and is most clear because we are still experiencing the dramatic problem that even people who should be able to better identify something that is known to the certainty that science offers in the related language. People come in even and talk as if they're not completely convinced that significant climate change is happening by man or that it's going to be closely related, that nothing can be done in it, no matter what people suggest, they'll never fix the problem, there's always something else. Of course, no one will ever know what exactly this is. Similarly, as tiresome as it is to be constantly chewing facts into people, it is very important that the facts are the most clear, so that it is what is most easily understood is what is presented by people who are involved in the discussion for a completely different reason than that of trying to protect mankind's future interests. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u83	A respectable president. I agree with the leader that it is necessary, if they want to discuss statistics in these cases, that there is the right statistics. A client stresses increasing information. In these areas, emissions of greenhouse gases will not be shaken out of the background. Release based on various data including I don't think it's a big deal because of the fact that it's very seasonal. The request specifically indicates that information will not be more than six months old, as the inquiry suggests. I thought it was the first step much better, i.e. that the EEA would not use the information and statistics that it already has to error in the discussion, with numbers as it has, for example. The current emissions from vehicles they have claimed to be 34% rather than 6%, the share that the Agency has recently corrected after a discussion with these materials. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u84	Mr. President. I'll be right there. I just want to point out that there are two types of emissions. These are the ones that can be calculated from the use of fossil fuels anywhere or coal or elsewhere in industry. This can be calculated because the content of each ton or kilogram is known to be present. The remaining numbers are the ones obtained by performing measurements for e.g. Wetlands or forests It can be the tie in the forest or the release in the wetlands. For various types, measurements could be done, and then numbers can be multiplied to the area of forests or wetlands. In any case, it's complicated, and there's really some uncertainty in this situation, just to be said.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u85	Mr. President. The question is that we can be somewhat comparable to that of a couple like our friends and friends to form in the north, so we have the same information and the same data to work out. It is not surprising, in itself, that a representative of the Independence Party will penetrate environmentally-related institutions and try to provide data to the countermates. I express a certain degree of sympathy with the highest degree. Ministers having to face the challenge of this lon anddon with the major task of increasing environmental awareness and facing climate-related catastrophes. We have to remember, because the Paris Convention was called, that we're talking about the context that the emission reduction is from these five sectors; transport, fishing roads, agriculture, less industry, and waste. These are precisely the sectors that depend on government responsibility for the Paris Convention. If we look at these five sectors, exactly the emissions are due to road transport 34%. You can't talk it down. The best results, if we can counterbalance it, to focus on this sector, with increased electrical activity and/or increased public transportation. I welcome what is happening in the very capital area in this regard. I repeat and reiterate what I didn't come back to me clearly enough that I would like to ask the highest level. Environment Minister, as soon as I agree with him that the data need to be comparable, we need to make it clear, clear, accessible, useful and clear, whether the top. A minister believes that if the data are two years old, he can run a credible climate policy or a greenhouse gas recession programme.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u86	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Parliaments for the participation in this discussion. I think what is being discussed here may be more likely to be able to present evidence and information more quickly than to increase the number of reports and think that this may not be the case. A senator, at least not I was pointing out. I agree with the explanation given in a case. A senator who shares in road transport. This 34% is what's out of Iceland's direct commitment to the Paris Convention. If they are taken into consideration more than they are taken, they will be less effective. I'm asked if there is a credible climate policy with an action plan if data used to show the emissions of 2 years old. I'd like to answer that, so it's always better to keep the data closer in time. I believe, however, that policy can be credible. Where are we headed? We've seen something like that. increasing emissions from road transport in recent years. There is a great deal of emphasis on government policy. We follow the direction from the international community that energy exchanges are most important when it comes to reducing emissions, i.e. going from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources, and then carbon binding. I'm not too worried that our policy is hard to believe, though we have two years of data because it really is based on what has already been released, although it would certainly be better to be able to monitor where we are and how we can compare it with plans, goals, and actions that we are doing if we have data, we can get through time. I think it may be possible to achieve it, at least in some factors, especially to burn fossil fuels. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u87	Mr. President. I've already saved the highest. Environment and resource secretary as follows: What are the government's plans for newforestation in the coming years? With new jungles, I mean growing up a new forest. The UN climate agreement recognizes forestry as one of the main ways to put carbon out of the air and thus counteract climate change. Two books on this agreement, both the Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Conference, support the forestry process to the carbon bond. National research and data strongly suggest that there is a realistic possibility of binding substantial amounts of carbon in the forest ecosystems here. The developed forest is now in less than 0.5% of the country, and the potential for achieving significant results in carbon binding in forestry without any significant changes in the shape of the country. It's, for example. can bind the total emissions of greenhouse gases in this country by growing the most efficient species of trees that consume only 2% of the land. This could be done in a land completely ruined today. So the possibility is to achieve significant results here on land in these areas and to be in front of the world's nations in achieving the aim of Iceland to become a contribution of carbon in a relatively short period of time. It was a pleasure, therefore, to read in the government's Action Programme on Climates that the expansion of forestry is expected to increase carbon binding from the atmosphere. In a projection of carbon binding introduced by the Environment Ministry in July. reports that the forest size is estimated to increase from 1,100 hectares to 2,300 hectares from this year to 2022, over the next three years. This is more than 50 percent increase. Although I wanted to have this increase, there is a special joy, but more than half increase in forestry over the next three years is a fine start. It was quite surprising, then, after this statement by the Ministry that contributions to forestry should be dropped between the current year and the next 2020. How are you planning to go to the top? Ministers increase forestry and achieve the objectives of the government's operations programme by over half increase, thus binding more carbon in the next three years if contributions to forestry decline from year to year? How are you planning to go to the top? Minister will do this? It doesn't seem to go together at all. It's the highest. A minister agrees with me in that the best way to bind carbon as quick-acting as possible is to increase in forestry and to use the most efficient trees for that purpose?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u88	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the inquiry. In summer, we introduced Prime Ministers to a large network of carbon - binding operations, a major component of the government's policy of action on climate. That means we will remember over the next three years double the size of land and forest and ten times the recovery of wetlands. It is estimated that the measures we will take for only the next four years, including the year, will bring about 50% greater annual temperature benefit in 2030 than the current binding and about 110% higher in 2050 as compared to today. Hv. A member of the United States noted a great potential for carbon - binding fusion by deforestation. I'd like to mention that only because of the actions we've undertaken this year, and that will happen over the next three years, we'll tie up 2.1 million tons of CO 2 every year in 2050. Comparatively, emissions were directly responsible for the total total total of 2.9 million tons in 2017. Thus, we are talking about a tremendous array of carbon - binding operations that have a far - reaching effect on the future. Foresting is one factor in the proposed procedure. For forestry there are laws on forestry and forestry No. 33 passed by the Council. Spring. There are goals that will be worked out in the years to come. These include: The protection and increase in the spread of nature forests, protection and recovery of biodiversity and development of new forests in order to build a wide range of forest resources for sustainable use. The deforestation of government policy for the next ten years is in line with Article 4. The law, but it's been planned as a projection administration to develop a national program for forestry. It discusses the status and future of forests in the country, as well as detailed goals for the effectiveness of forestry. Woodforestation is being discussed in the government's work programme on climate issues from 2018, as we have considered earlier, and they plan to develop further in July. That's where even the two of them come from. up to the estimated increase in the forest distribution of major projects in 2018, as was shown in the case of the year about 1,100 acres (U.S.) to some 2,300 hectares per year. Senator. Perhaps the forestry in Iceland, where the state is involved, is done in three main ways. First of all, the forestry forests were used to be part of the national forestry projects. According to these, the forest industry should provide contributions for forestry, including protection and recovery of the forests of nature, and scourging laws in accordance with its budget and its budget. It is estimated that by 2018, the forest size of the law - building forest is increased from the vegetation of some 650 acres [650 ha] to about 1,300 hectares in 2022. Given these criteria, it can be assumed that it will take more than 20 years to complete the production in a country that is already signed within the woodforestation of the law. A significant number of landowners have applied for participation in the project during the last eight years. Second, forestry in Iceland is through land - healing forests and other social projects. We have a cooperation contract in force between Iceland's Forest Development Society and the Environment and Resource Ministry. The aim of forest crops is to heal poor and unhealed land with diverse forests and thus contribute to forest development for the public, the recovery of ecosystems and the implementation of biological diversity and the implementation of European government policies on climate, as well as the implementation of forestry and forestry laws and laws on land healing. In these and other deforestation projects, forestry has been carried out every year by some 200 to280 people. It is forestry in the vicinity of urban areas with an objective for forestry. Third, U.S. forestry is a deforestation of the institutions of the State. Forests are forestry in countries under the control of the Agency, as is the case with land healing. Foremostly, an increase in the production of birch forests and forests is expected when it comes to these areas of woodforestation, in contrast with law - building forests. It involves planting, sowing, and changing land use so that birk self - abuse can take place. In addition, there are a lot of forested societies and people who are doing forestry, such as we know, tasks such as Kolwood, and others. I would like to remind you, however, that we need to be more careful than just the carbon binding when we engage in these projects, e.g. to take care of the objectives of the Convention on Biodiversity and thus the species used in forestry. I intend to enter my second answer to that claim. A senator says that contributions to the Forest are being dropped, as time is now up.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u89	A respectable president. I welcome all efforts to combat climate change, which are inevitable, are ports, and will cause unsolved damage, no matter what we do, but I think it is important that we keep in mind that we need to increase our ambition rather than simply get some sort of carbon share. In my opinion, the world's politicians do not offer the opportunity to cope with this crisis in time to prevent even more terrible things. We are prone to set goals where we would have to do what we needed to do if all the nations would take their place and do what we have to do, and we may be inclined to pursue that goal. The thing is, the nations of the world will not do that. China won't, America won't, and Brazil won't. We must be better than the best we could possibly imagine we need to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u90	Mr. President. I had planned to bring in a little bit about the importance of forests but I'm going to change it and bring it on as a bit. A senator before me spoke of a lack of carbon and its importance. See, we can't stop carbon output and I'm not talking about volcanic eruptions, I'm just talking about human carbon emissions, carbon emissions from damaged land, etc. A lack of carbon exchange by binding to emissions will always be very important, so we must always keep in mind that both of us need to reduce emissions and increase binding.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u91	A respectable president. I'm just gonna get involved in this discussion and start by pointing it to the highest level. Ministers to determine how large areas could grow with natural forests without man's interference. On the other hand, I would like to come to the conclusion that the state has negotiated with the more than 600 worlds on national levels to take from land to use for forestry. How are we able to meet that agreement? Is it, in some cases, cultivating natural forests, or in any case, woodforests? Clearly, the Kingdom is not having the contracts now, since this land is expected to be planted in ten years. [[The president calls.]] What can be done to negotiate?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u92	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Environment and resource minister for his answers and for their reasons. Parliamentaries who made comments in this discussion. I'm going to talk about the importance of forestry because there is a future forest. The forest is not a matter of practicality. It is present for future generations. It's very important to grow a forest. It saves currency money when we don't have to import all our timbers. A forest provides shelter for both man and beast. In the shelter of the forest all the land is easier to grow. Forest enriches life and makes life more diverse. Forests are a future resource and a long - term commercial source. V.E.G. Minister spoke up, including ... aboutthe self-employment of birchs. At which rate is the highest. A minister to bind carbon if he insists that a bear be provided for the land? At what rate should this be? V.E.G. A minister speaks of the results he envisions to be on the land by 2050. In view of the contributions to the forest and the plans for self - interest, it's in the hands of someone other than this highest. Governments to bind carbon here on land in the next few years. That's another government project in the future. I recommend that we dress up in bridges and grow forests of land where only 0.5% of the land are forested. I don't think there's anything I can do about it. We can be chief among the nations to bind carbon by deforestation. It's an easy way to do it, and I'm telling you, I'm telling you, it's an easy way. Minister to work on this matter on a firm basis. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u93	A respectable president. Asking what. paritaprevir Gauti Hjaltason is the first to say that the contributions estimated in the budget and in financial programmes are sufficient for just what has been presented by the government. Right away. A senator says that the deforestation is in the forestry industry, so I want him to know that in a follow-up with a budget bill, 10 million will be in between 2019 and 2020. The legal committee's proposals were to increase these contributions by 28 million per year. I'd also like to point out that the reason for this is that in recent years the forest industry has received a temporary reimbursement that was delayed. It is not true to say that the amount of money that goes to carbon binding is being reduced. It's just wrong. If we consider the contributions to forestry, they will travel from 220 million to 2017's budget to 392 million in Plan 2022. If it's not an increase, I don't know what an increase is. That's exactly what the donations are for. It is not the task of the next government to attack what I described earlier that would happen in 2050 but the firmness of this government, which has strongly stressed to go on this journey, that one part of the operation of the government plan is precisely carbon binding, certainly not the only thing. Then I was asked if the land could be restored without the man's presence. I don't know that it was suggested, but I wait for information from land healing and the wooding industry at the speed of self-inflicted work here. [[The president calls.]] There are a number of methods being used when it comes to the carbon binding, and the self - abuse of birch is certainly one of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u94	Mr. President. It's still poetic at the highest. Environment Minister. In most parts of the north, rapid erosion in the earth's atmosphere results in changes in weather, worsening wind patterns, and increased precipitation. This is an increasing flow of glaciers and increased forestry, and even larger rocks can fall, rising sea levels, coastal erosions, and so forth. What is the response? There are flood prevention inland and coastal, coastal, and coastal barriers. Increased monitoring is in the environment, and most important, damage rates and costs are involved in various projects. All of this brings our minds to a treasure store, a disaster fund, a climate fund, and a national fund. As a result, I ask: Who considers Ministers to be society's most important project in adaptation to climate change and its consequences? Then I am not only talking about funding but also about other reactions. Then I'll go back to a plan of action for these substances. The role of the climate Council is to implement a forestry plan for emissions and binding, which has been subject to considerable discussion here. According to the Code on Climates, on the so-called 5th paragraph. a, on a climate recommendation also working on a climate change adaptation strategy. Then the question is how she feels, there's an extra question I'm going to ask the highest. Minister to respond in a calm, orderly manner. On the other hand, government agencies are legally required to establish climate policy. All of this, when combined, calls for a comprehensive action programme as a result of adaptation to climate change. This is about to become a growing number of topics abroad because these consequences are becoming more and more intense and need to be probable in preparing sound strategies for these activities. On other occasions, I have discussed either a special or a potential group, a subset of a climatic body, which concentrates on adjusting to climate change, which calls for e.g. has a more active component, such as public defences, which we see little to see for now. There could be, in addition to these public defenses, among such groups of Landsbusters and institutions such as Iceland's Weather Service, Human Rights Agency, Transport, Roadmaker, and the Union of Iceland. Then I ask, How can the General, Government, Company, and others take the lead in implementing a reliable strategy over the years for the adjustment? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u95	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator very much for his inquiry. To begin with, it is very important that we ensure good scientific knowledge of the consequences of climate change in Iceland and around us, what has already happened, and especially what is coming. In many ways, this process is well - guaranteed, more than before, with the changes made earlier this year. As a result of the changes made in climate law, scientific reports on the impacts of climate change on natural processes and society in Iceland as well. will take into account the reports of the United Nations International Committee on Climate, IPCC. The coordination of action is of vital importance. Scientific information must be provided to those who need to make decisions about planning and projects that must take into account changes in nature, such as the rise in sea levels and changes in the weather and the water courses. The above - mentioned scientific reports will be in accordance with the laws of the government, and the National Weather Service is responsible for them by getting experts from other institutions and the university community. The last report under the special request of the Environment and Resource Ministry was published in 2018, and there are some findings that help us to examine the challenges ahead of adjustment. Results include: the migrating, the reduction in the volume, and the change in the water cycle, the reduction in emissions, and the rise in sea levels are likely to rise. This means that the flood risk increases as well as the pressures on irrigation systems, the drought days may increase, potentially leading to an increased incidence of greenhouse and forest fires. The risk of landslides is likely to increase as a result of permafrost melt and development of reptiles. The acidification and warming of the sea will have many consequences, with possible effects on fish and fishing. This provides evidence of matters that need to be considered in the future regarding adaptation to climate change. The results of the scientific community are and will be the basis for our actions in this regard. However, making a lead-in plan. The above changes in climate law were also laid down by a minister who had a plan to work for Icelandic society's adaptation to climate change on the basis of the best scientific knowledge. I will see to it that the work of this arrangement is carried out and that the adjustment plan is immediately implemented. It's not exactly the role of the climate Council to win the plan itself, the Minister must have it done, but I've asked the climatic Council for pre-and-expecting work that will be useful in the development of the requested strategy. That work began last spring with a conference on adaptation to climate and workshops, where major projects and challenges were to be broken. During these events, a large and good supply of materials was obtained to work out, and now work on the climate board is expected to be a good foundation for work in a comprehensive government strategy. It reviews basic concepts and methodologies of adaptation, management and adaptation in other countries and the position of such work in Iceland today, along with proposals and key concerns for the government. I'm expecting an opinion from the climate council on this in the next few weeks. Hv. A senator also asks specifically about the arrival of a local partner. The rural community knows a very important party when it comes to adaptation to climate change, especially because organization is largely in its hands and many activities affected by climate change. These include the construction of a car accident. It is clear that rural society is involved in our discussion of adaptation. Finally, I would like to mention that the overall policy of short and long-term, clear aims and practical measures by assured financing are essential for the effectiveness of climate change, whether thought to improve or to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and to increase carbon emissions from the atmosphere. We at the Environment and Resource Ministry have emphasized this and will continue. I agree with that word. A senator says the adjustment is a very important subject. We still don't have a plan to do that in Iceland, but it's getting better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u96	A respectable president. The request turns to how we are adapting to the changes we will see and will inevitably become. I'm sure they'll be true, but they don't happen so fast. Today, the pace of climate change creates the overwhelming problem we face. During this brief period of time, I feel that it is important to remind myself of one problem that is spoken little of except in half silence. The problem is that, according to many estimate, there will be an enormous amount of migration in the future. The flight from Syria is part of the result of climate change. There was the greatest drought in the history of Syria before civil war broke out with the resulting disaster and migration. One thing the world all needs to realize is that the world's refugee crisis will not decrease in the future. [[The president calls.]] It is very likely that it will increase, and it is important that we do not simply respond by the best means. Rather, we need to realize that we need to view other types of community in the world. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We also need to be able to cope in general with social changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u97	The President reminds me of why. A senator on timelines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u98	Mr. President. I thank you for your discussion and answers. Minister. I cherish the scientific knowledge he mentioned because it is the foundation of what we do, and it is in the general sense of good conduct. However, I'd like to mention that in the water, we need to do better, and that is because we have over 700,000 miles of water to be examined, both acidification, deep currents, and the effects of climate change on animal life. Only to the climatic Council again, who actually has a double task. It has some kind of oversight, starting with two types of strategy, one with regard to emissions and binding, and the adjustment. I repeat what I said, I feel like there's a lack of a party there. I know that the Council itself is not working these plans, it is the cooperation project of many parties, but I would still deem it to be a subset or part of a climatic body with more sources. I mentioned, for example. As part of the Council itself worked regularly, so to speak, it is best simply to say that it is. This is very common, there are some institutions in other countries known as localities, resistance institutions, or what they want to call them. This may not be the case because of small size, but I think it should be considered. Then I'd like to finish my case by saying something. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson of the refugee problem that may be due to climate change. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u99	V.E.G. President. Thank you again for your fine discussion. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson for picking it up. I agree specifically with what. paritaprevir Hrafn Gunnarsson's huskling about the fear of people because it's absolutely right. This is one thing that we will likely see most in the future if we continue to enjoy an excellent example of obedience and Syria. This also needs to be taken into our plans for adaptation due to climate change. I also wanted to report in this field that the government has made large contributions to further investigate the consequences of marine acidification in the marine environment by a contract with a Marine Research Institute in spring or summer. We have also added funding to better watch for sea level changes and to map the risk of landslides. We are handling a considerable number of new projects when it comes to climate change and part of it is increasing the research of the changes being under way. I can also mention increased contributions to the Weather Room over a study of hip pads. That's over 250 million. K. for example, over the next five years in the United States, there is a program to increase monitoring the acidification of the sea and the glaciers for the next five years. To draw this together, I want to say that it is very important to try to minimize climate change. It's a big project, but the task of adapting communities to climate change is also increasing. Here, too, the time has come for us to direct our actions, at least Some, in turn, may be used both to reduce emissions or to bind carbons and to use them as adaptation measures. [[The president calls.]] Such measures are available.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u100	V.E.G. President. I asked you a question for the highest. Secretary of pension at seamen's. The question I posed to a minister is: Has it been checked how many sailors are using the right to take a pension of 60 to sixty-67 years old? If so, how high the proportion of sailors use the right to start a pension age by 67? V.E.G. President. The reason for this inquiry is that I'm worried that some seamen don't take advantage of their right to pension. Happily, the nature of seamen's work is understood to be so that their normal life span is shorter than most others. This may not have to be explained, but seaman work is physically very difficult and fragile. Today, however, this information has not been available before the Agency took this role. A real trick is that fishermen don't know their right to take a pension at 60 years of age. For example, it is difficult to get legal information on days prior to the period of completion of the CA registration. In fact, there are cases where collections of information are needed, but such is time - consuming and given up on some. It is probably harder to collect information on previous registrations, especially in a country where access to such documents is harder. So I encourage sailors to be well - informed about their rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u101	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for this inquiry. He asks: "How many seamen use their right to take a pension age of 60 to 67 years and, if so, how high the proportion of these individuals use the right to start a pension pension age by 67 years of age? " According to the Social Security Act, a person who has practiced seagullage on a legal ship or ship may be out of Icelandic citizens 25 years or longer entitled a pension from 60 years of age, commonly known as seamen's pension. The State's Insurance Office is responsible for the implementation of pension insurance, social security and other matters laid down in the Social Security Act. The answer to this inquiry was prepared by the Agency for answers to the questions at any given time. A senator would like to respond. According to the Agency, only 29 persons, aged 60◯67 years, are now being paid a pension, but in recent years, these individuals are becoming increasingly reduced. They were 52 at the same time in 2014, just five years ago. This, of course, can lead to the odds, as it were. In his inquiry and ensuing speech, a senator came in, saying that there are very few who are not aware of this right. It is estimated that far more individuals have this right than is stated there. However, there is no information on how many people have the right to do this because it has only information about those who have applied for pay from the Agency, so there is no basis for the total number of people entitled to be paid. The Ministry consulted a U.S. O.A., holding the sailors'legal registration. It provided the information that the registration system could not be determined whether registered persons in this age range meet the criteria of social security for the payment of seamen's pension. It is therefore not available in the system how much of the seamen use the right to start a pension from the state insurance agency before 67 years of age. There are only a number of people who make good money, and as I said earlier, only 29 people from 60 to sixty-67 years of age are paid a pension. There have been a steady decrease in number and nearly twice as many today as there were five years ago. Thus, it can be concluded that there is a good reason to make some presentation, what seamen's rights are already about to take a pension. What should be involved, whether it should be on the hands of an insurance agency, the Department of Social Affairs, the case of sailors'interest groups, or the cooperation of these parties, is not a good thing to say. Yet, there is good reason to start a conversation about such a thing. I've requested that we go on it and expect a good cooperation with what. A senator at that job.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u102	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister Ásmundur the Einar Daðason of David for this answer and the information read by the minister here. I agree with the minister that there are undoubtedly of the total loss of sailors whose numbers are not higher among those who attend their rights. However, it is strange that those who avail themselves of this right have declined much since 2014. The sailors have this right when they work longer than 25 years at sea, so I direct it to sailors who have been working at sea for a long time that they know of this right and that it is possible to pick it up. It would require access to information and, as indicated by the opinion I have made in this work, being better because it's not a good access, but hopefully it will improve. That's how the fishing work is, and I talk from experience, that most sailors assume that the salary they have is what they earn with their hands. They don't have much to do with what right they have until they're 67 years old at the full limit of their age. Many of them have failed to recognize this right, and I urge them to inform themselves of it. Thank you very much. Minister for the information he presented in his talk earlier. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-25-34.u103	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator, that is reason to encourage sailors, like others, to exercise the right that they truly have. It is shocking that their numbers have dropped from very low to lower numbers. I'll join and celebrate. A senator took up this matter and drew attention to it. I encourage those watching to make good use of this to introduce the matter to sailors. The Department of Social Services is taking to heart what turns on them, and I hope this is the beginning of a more positive figure in this regard.
