ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u1	Borist has received a letter from the Department of Social Affairs where the request is made to provide a written answer for the requested application. 1349 construction reforms for mold, from Álfheiður Ingadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u2	The president would like to state that a meeting is expected to last longer than would be customary while working within the framework of a work programme. It is the understanding of the president and his interpretation of the council that it doesn't have to be mentioned specifically.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u3	Today, 2,445 days have passed since an elected nation. It was a schemer of national regulations to see whether the new constitution, elected by the Council of Governments 25 persons, had been written by the General Assembly. Did they vote whether this constitution should be submitted to a basic bill to a new constitution? Other questions were asked in that national bill. It was asked whether the sovereign nation wanted a new constitution to become natural resources that are not private in national property, whether the nation wanted a constitution for a national church, whether a personal election should be elected to the General election, whether the votes of the voters of the whole country should weigh as well as at last whether a certain rate of elections would require national pay. Nearly 70% of voters declared that the newly formed constitution was to be submitted to the basis of a new constitution. More than 80% wanted natural resources in national property, 57% wanted an arrangement for the State Church, almost 80% wanted to increase the person's worth, less than 67% wanted to equalize the votes of every country, and finally, more than 73% voted by a certain number of people requiring national votes. Mr. President. Our new constitution passed through a review of the Venetian Committee and was fully developed by an administration and monitoring committee that turned the bill of a new constitution into the Assembly Hall in the spring of 2013. At that time, much of the debates of the opposing parties, the Independence Party, and the forwarding party may seem to be that the platoon leader who has led the seminaries here at the General Assembly for the past few weeks against a pack of energy, that is exactly what also led the advocates of the time at the Supreme Court. Minister of Bjarni son of Benediktsson against the new constitution that the people had chosen. Mr. President. I suggest we finish this case, because that's not something else that's decent for an elected country. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u4	A respectable president. The situation that has developed in our economy at the impact of tourism today is a reminder to us of the importance of increasing the potential for valuables in our society and promoting the competitiveness of our country. Thus, it is important in this situation to make profit - making investments with a much greater force than may have been proposed in this regard. It is important to stimulate the economy by means of such investments, and there is an opportunity to be used. For example, there is the building of Aggressive Impulsion. As far as I know, it would be most beneficial for land inactivation to start now in the building of the Whale activation that is, as far as I know, to be fully developed and ready for implementation, to have passed through environmental assessment and to be a very practical activation option. Indeed, there is a need for electricity that would come from there to create valuables for society. The transport sector in larger steps than is even being looked forward, with all the expansions that have been announced in that field, on the basis of currency, would be very practical today. There are projects in both the capital area and throughout the country. A fundamental factor is that such exports will be used to ensure that the payoff takes on all the inhabitants of the country. We have a great deal of opportunity, and of course there is a great need in the capital area, where there has been information that the need for construction is at a second hundred billion in public transportation and infrastructure. Then we know about the situation all over the country. I believe, a respectable president, that now that Speli has been returned to the government and this lucrative project is taken into the nation's possession, the Hafjörður tunnel, we should take it with us in these steps, establish such a business, to form with pensions and countryside, and make long-term contracts of major projects in these areas. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u5	A respectable president. In these days, many young people are checking into the university and choosing a study that will be the foundation of a career and their ongoing education for decades. Today's decision affects the lives of individuals, as well as the way knowledge builds up and spreads in society and builds valuable creations. It is therefore particularly enjoyable to see a significant increase in the number of teachers at both basic and master levels. Now I want to discuss the importance of food production education in the country. We've got a number of cases at the General Assembly that create a legal structure which is based on the very foundation of the law on the very knowledge of nature and food crops. These are e.g. articles related to fish farms, for sales of fresh food and fishing on macroil This morning I listened to a coverage that called for more students in nutrition and food science, while a relatively fewer people are educated in that area than in the countries around us. In addition to food science, food production is the basis for knowledge of nature and natural processes, such as biology and geology. Farming then combines knowledge of nature, sustainable land use, and food production. It is important in Iceland that there is a large education in all those areas to build knowledge on Icelandic situations and to link it with international knowledge in the same areas. In spite of the number of urgent projects, there has been a marked decrease in the number of qualified agricultural and master-sized students in this report. In recent years, the number of fixed scientists in these fields has also decreased. Such trends need to be reversed. This suggests that the same education base is also very important for the knowledge of the sustainable use of natural resources and environmental protection, both preventive measures and natural disasters, are based on knowledge.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u6	A respectable president. Yesterday, the welfare committee was released at the highest level. Social and child-friendly minister on changing social help laws and social security laws. Here is a step toward a great improvement in disability. The aim is to reduce the impact of other revenues but to improve social security and social assistance in calculating specific pensions for the advancement of disability and rehabilitation of donors and, therefore, the sum of what is called in the daily term against a dollar's impairment. During the past few years, the number of micropigs has increased and is a number of reasons behind them. In winter, I proposed a synonym proposal to hide a health minister's education in the public for histology and to have a review of the order of specialized rehabilitation services with the objective of strengthening the analysis procedure and can offer holistic treatment based on the results of cross-checking studies. We need to listen to the silent disease and accept it as a major factor in the loss of people of all ages from a job market and is isolated from the pain - related diseases that disintegrate the individual, both at work and as a member of the community. A respectable president. One advertisement says that the drinkers of Kristal are seen. People with tumours do not apply it on their bodies. This interpretation proposal is probably due for release at the next assembly, but hopefully it will pass through. There seems to be bigger and more important matters, a respectable president, who has to take time here at the General Assembly, e.g. Some members of Congress need time to inform the nation of the disaster if the Allied agree to build on the independence of the Power Institute. It does not provide the end of that threat. I can't tell you that I drink Kristal, but hopefully I'll go for what I'm standing for. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u7	A respectable president. Among the many talents that the chairman of the Middle Party has been endowed with an unambiguous fiction. He may reveal little stories, a form of satir, that serve the purpose of seeing events in a new light. Thus he had the fun idea of the day - to - day cod war in the present political climate, and then he imagines a natural series of destructive acts of political opposers, including a attention - sick writer with political ambitions. I read that story, and I thought the poet was successful. But I woke up with another mental connection than the poet's, as if to throw away in complicated fiction, and I hope that the poet doesn't mean it to me. The village war, on the other hand, focused on the cloudless control over their resources and on access to foreign markets with the products that we create from that resource. In fact, we still have the authority to guarantee by means of the resource regulations of the Constitution, which I expect the head of the Central Party is now very supportive. The other is so reversed, for I am no better than the main struggle of the statesmen Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson Gunnol, to prevent it, by all means, that Icelandic energy can ever become a sale on European soil, which would be comparable to having fought against it by means of advice and reveries that Icelandic fish would be sold abroad; for no foreigners have anything to eat our only fish, but should sell the Icelandic fish at the lowest possible price. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u8	A respectable president. Yesterday, a meeting ended before I expected it. There I made up an extra time that I used to drive me to a boatside burn here somewhere else in the Qunos. There, Bára Halldórsdóttir spent her recordings of members of the council at the bar of Klausri. Personal protection had concluded that by recording, Bára sides violated the protection laws of identity. Bára failed to respond as some would have done by confusing the matter through all possible and impossible legal complications. She did not try to dissuade Persian protection by far - fetched conspirators, as we know there have become too many examples. In fact, it is worth considering whether Peritoneal protection would have reached a different conclusion if Bára had suggested that they be journalists, for what she recorded was clearly newsworthy, but as a humble informant, she did not enjoy special protection. However, there is a way out of nowhere and something the council can look at in a better void. Bára did not attempt to escape the Persian protection decision. No, Bára were reacting like an honest person. She accepted the responsibility of her actions, and came to the judgment of the Persian Guardian. Although the original recordings of that fateful night at Klausri are now gone, the memory survives. Let us all remember the Kurdor group to speak in a disgusting way about their fellow workers, women, disabled people, etc., a group who responded to enlightenment by going to war with informants, a group that opposes the practice committee's taking their case into consideration at all levels. Bára took responsibility. What about them?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u9	A respectable president. Yesterday a debate and a reply, which a respectable president participated in, and with the permission of a president, I intend to read aloud what he said in answer: ▪ I've come to think a lot about each organization of the elderly when virtually no one speaks of the lassé group and all that has to do with the striped payments. I'm one of those who's part of that organization. I'm in the management of a national movement disaster, I was a deputy in the management of Iceland's Environment Association, was in the pooring group of Iceland's Scaring Association, I'm in Sjörk of Reykjavík, and we've been fighting there with our mouths, and we've cut the shit out of it. And who's got the worst in here and the worst shit? It is those with impaired housing that the Allied emissary pointed a year ago to be illegal. Is there something being done for that kind of person in the government? No. Then there's something else that's completely unpleasant, that people who get 60,000 bucks. I'm gonna get from a pension fund, 0. They're moving their pension fund to pay off others inside the system. At the same time, the government spends half a half of a pension that pays a million dollars a month, a million on budgets, 124,000 or 155,000, on the offer of inadequacy. How in the world can we take a pension fund, a 60,000 k, from two microchips to give one high-priest? If you answer that question, you must be able to defend it, too, because in some way you have arranged it, and in some way you will want to defend it and say that it is the right thing to do. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u10	A respectable president. According to Marcus Ball, an attorney charged Boris Johnson with a violation of public employment, lying that Britain paid 350 million pounds a week for membership. The goal of the lawyer is to get counselees to stop lying, because nothing else seems to work. Boris Johnsons's reaction was predictable, in view of a case that has no compensation. It is tried to question the purpose of the lawsuits by saying that the lawsuit is financed by political or foreign opposers. The defense is a public opinion war, the street court countered the predictable decision of courts. The messenger is shot or undermined in one way or another. Where have I seen the rhythms before? How was that again? I've got a run-in intelligence set up in SabraBára office. The Spanish demands, not even the Icelandic demands, were not evil, although they were among them. How was the media that revealed the news? How did everything else teach from those who lied? This is the very essence of the fact that false news and religious warfare are active. This is the method that all of us need to learn to criticize. Attacking the messenger is not a matter of defense. It is not a defense to find ulterior motives for a lawsuit. If the charges are false, there is always a moral defense. In the United States, I have heard arguments that are appropriate for one's own goals, regardless of whether the evidence is correct. It is some kind of popular debate in a conflict of opinion that makes argument and facts irrelevant. I've heard this call radical logic, but the only thing I've got around it is that it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u11	Mr. President. In many parts of the country there is a great and persistent lack of doctors, so I don't talk about expert doctors. The great and persistent lack of medical care in many parts of the country has created some form of resurgence, where effective doctors fit the swamp and take the tins and might compare them to the arrival of the spring ships of ancient centuries, where excited residents were caught up when they saw them. Acute services in parts of the South are very poor and sometimes very far off, as the examples prove in the province of Skaftfells. The Western country's community government has repeatedly concluded about the need for doctors and that medical services are lacking in the island. Thus, the town government has concluded that there is a shortage of waste services for prospective mothers, surgeon services, medical services, emergency services, and medical services. Recently, I received a challenge from members of my household at the nursing home in the Western Islands. It held a meeting last week and challenges governments to improve ophthalmological services in the Western Islands. They say that an ophthalmologist has not been to the Western Islands for long and is concerned about the situation. They say that the need to travel solely to obtain the services of medical doctors is an unappreciative and difficult one. Finally, family members face challenges to those responsible for health care in the country to improve their needs as soon as possible. Mr. President. We have to do better for the old folks in the country. There is no need to cross the sea and land to get as much time as a medical service.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u12	President. I'd like to call attention to the response of travel, industrial, and innovation ministers to my inquiry for the Enforcement and the CDC. Some interesting information is presented there. It's a group of paintings we've discussed in this council hall. It turns out in these answers to hear of the fact that this is an application for permission to enable every microspheres through minor activations, good if not to provide electricity for the whole world, that is exactly what it is, troll stories. Blacks and whites show that the number of activations within the last ten years for minor inducers is much lower than mentioned. However, it is interesting to wonder, as I have often done in this pontta, how the small inactivations are planted, and whether they are properly cared for. To aim microdoers at 10 megawatts is that I know, as I've come in many times, way too much power. I've been speaking about lowering it to perhaps a 151/2 megawatt. Then it is of interest that the law allows you to issue an investigational license on the basis of non-supervising initiatives. It is legal that it is permitted to engage in energy research because of the waiting element's activation initiative. I'm putting, President, a great question mark on this because, as we know, our frame plan is to sort out areas, whether we want them to be protected from energy efficiency or new. I feel that what's waiting is really waiting, but not so that people are on their way and are thinking that they're gonna activate before the benefits are grouped as innovations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u13	Mr. President. Yesterday, the government introduced the next steps in energy exchange in Iceland. This is 450 billion. K. A provision to pay for the use of energy sources other than fossil fuels on their cars is available for Icelanders and people who come home to us. There is a need for us to make a complete change in our travel habits and take into account the use of environmental energy. Many people feel that this is a difficult thought, since our country is large and often a long way to go to a service, not to mention all the tourists who travel through the country on cars, from the time they land at Leiffs station. But this is not to be difficult, and it will not be difficult when this program is being implemented. When the Internet was new, it was complicated to connect, and some likely remember when the Internet could not be viewed without unplugging the home line. But now a wireless network is self - esteem, becoming one of our main communicators. The situation should be the same with environmental energy use. Icelanders are to be able to travel from Húsavík to Reykjavík without worrying about getting all the way. Travelers should be able to count on their accommodations to build an electric car rented by rentals. But electricity is not the only environmental energy source. Hydrogens and assessments should also be more accessible, and now Theminges, e.g. Start using oil as fuel for their ship's fleet. In this context, the Environment Minister has also presented a Regulation on the ban on the use of black oil in Icelandic land weekend to be established at the next year's convention. A respectable president. This morning the news was that a team team had shut down a traditional route to Lake Bay. This, of course, is the direct result of the disaster that we face. We must also remember that all steps matter, large and small. We need to stick together and think about our daily routine, how much better we can do, each one of us, for also matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u14	Mr. President. Yesterday, I returned home after a meeting by the Council of the European Parliament in Paris, and I feel that it is appropriate to inform the council and the people of this important assembly. First, we had many months of work to do. paritaprevir Björk Björkar Brynjólfsdóttir the important result that application of extreme, slowness, to the establishment of a group within the European Council was rejected. It was rejected on the basis that the group did not meet the criteria for respect for baseline European Council. If the application had been accepted, the category would have gained power, capital, and acceptance of the Council of Europe because the hostile attitudes that these groups spread throughout their country would be consistent with the values of human rights, democracy, and justice. Of course, that is not true. It was a historic decision, Mr. President, and it shows that right extreme forces can be rejected when this attack is based on false reasoning. Second, the European Parliament's Legal and Human Rights Committee, the Committee that I direct, was meeting a number of important issues, including the increased protection of informers, recently adopted by the European Union, a significant historic decision also, and how we are going to encourage all the European Council states, including Iceland, to agree with similar standards and even go further in the protection of informers and expand that concept. Finally, we talked about the importance of artificial intelligence and the importance of the immediate application of the European Council in setting standards of artificial intelligence related to human rights. Indeed, there is a need to reform, so far. Finally, I was at a meeting of the European Parliament's Conference Committee, where important decisions were made that will make it very likely that Russia will return to the Council of Europe and be involved in its activities again. This was a wonderful success, for the council ministers did not have done what is necessary for the Russians to return so that we senators accepted responsibility. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u15	A respectable president. Once again, at the end of the council, hopefully, or perhaps we'll be here until Christmas. Who knows? All I know is that here is a good resistance to negotiate almost everything, but I'm not naturally tested in that field. This is a little fun, I have to admit to all who have not been privileged to be members of the council, and to observe the council's activities, and a great deal of attention worth paying attention to. There are 41 cases coming up, and I'd like to encourage the world's highest level. A government to put our arms around us, our well - intentioned, our agreementful and excellent government opposition, and allow us to continue to follow through on our issues. That's what we're here for. I'm not going to go into anything else that's surprised me ever since I've been to the Council, just like the incident I had yesterday. Maybe I'll do it later. For example, we had a case, a group of people, a bill that we have twice recommended to eliminate the decrease in income of the elderly. It has been a determined desire to hold it completely off, and to prevent it, despite the fact that we have already demonstrated, both with reports and data from government insurance agencies and with a report made by a government attorney, black on white, that a government fund would simply profit from it, because human health, to give them a particular group the opportunity to continue working if they had confidence in him. That's why I say, as long as we're talking about sliding and downhilling in the economy and we can't afford the rest, and we don't have to be able to handle it, I can't understand why we can't do a good deed when it doesn't cost a sum of money.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u16	A respectable president. Today, I made up a few of the fine cases the members of the Independence Party have proposed to this council, possibly someday to support the end. I didn't get to mention all of them, and I won't do it in this short speech either, but I want to mention some of them, because many of them - and all - affect homes and jobs, on the people of the country, and I hope that some of them will get a better start in this term, most of them all. Two prime products involving great justice have already been agreed upon, on the one hand, the change in parental restraining order and the case that we agreed on yesterday, improving the status of a child who lost a parent. The members of the Independence Party have also provided prime returns for tax reductions, including those in the U.S.A. by partial reduction of the genetic tax to 5%. Of course, that's where it goes from there to there. Reasonableness, however, has already been taxed. Also, there are two basic warnings about the removal of stamps, which I have discussed many times. The second bill is my concern, as it were, for the execution of a plunger charge of individuals to buy an apartment house, but the other one is from what happened. Teitur Björn Einarsson for removing stamps on larger ships, which are the only device still on the clock charge. Other things that affect real estate prices are e.g. Óli Björn Kárason's bill, which includes a full reimbursement of GPA due to industrial and construction work. At that time, members of the Parliament have also proposed initiatives designed to support the needs of municipal irrigation services, to make it easier for professionals to attend university, to reimburse worthwhile extra tax for charity and partnership organizations, and also to facilitate generation exchange in the sector and repair of the Tarts. This is how I might continue, but all the things in common are that they strengthen the interiors of society and leave more with the people of the country. That's how we're supposed to work and we're going to keep working.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u17	Mr. President. It was amazing to observe what happened at the mayor's office when Gunnlaugur Bragi Björnsson, deputy of Reunion, chairman of the Hingi Days, and part of the greater part, gave a suggestion for a permanent rainbow in the course or other kind of walking, a walk, a wall, or another prominent spot in the city of Reykjavík. It's amazing that this proposal has been agreed together, for as Gunnlaugur points out, it is remembered this year that 50 years have passed since Stonewall's restoration at its time, but no less than 20 years have been since the celebration of a queer weekend. It was successful that the following year, however, there were days that are truly important to all of us. Gunnlaugur Bragi says even. in a wonderful speech: Let's go back to 1969. It's Friday, late June, and in New York, it's hot and damp. June 27 was an ordinary Friday, perhaps apart from the fact that Judy Garland's funeral took place that day. For three decades then, Judy had been the favorite homo in New York City, and, of course, more people around the world since she took the role of Dorothy in the Wizard of Oz. It touched a string in the hearts of queer people of the time when Dorothy sang about the land beyond the rainbow, the land where dreams come true. The song miraculously sealed people's hopes for a better world, so perhaps for good reason as a song in question since then, there has been one of the major fighting songs for queer people around the world. Gunnlaugur Bragi then correctly points out that each day queers face many forms of harassment and discrimination in society. The practice of physical assault, hatred by sexual orientation, sexual awareness, sexual expression, and gender is still a matter of practice. It would have been two or three times that Iceland and I were not on the tip of an ILGA rainbow list. We're in 18th place, seat ahead of the Hungarians. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, I would like to encourage all of us, the government and all who are in this room, to get us Icelanders to the lead when it comes to the rightfulness of gay people. We are to make use of the intervening power that is in this Assembly Hall, and we are to be resolved to do so. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u18	Mr. President. I come up here looking for President's guidance because I'm a little confused right now. As it happens, Pirata's members have twice been stopped in the middle of their speech because of their direct words. Councilmen who have not had the opportunity to defend themselves as a result. Now I enjoyed listening to what I heard. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andrir Thorsson spoke earlier, but I couldn't hear any better than that speech had all revolved around one another. A senator who was not given an opportunity to give a reply. I just want to look to the highest source of guidance. President on when it's allowed and what's the difference between speaking and speaking? paritaprevir Guðmundur of Andri, son of Thorsson and the talks of the senators of Pirata, who were considered inappropriate. I'd like to be clear about what you can do and what else you can't say. Councilmen without having the opportunity to give a reply and without being stopped in the middle of a talk of the highest power. President. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u19	The President doubts the value of comparing himself as a dog. A senator mentioned here. Hv. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson made a most fun and poetic effort out of a newspaper article that, in fact, another politician had written and brought his thoughts on it. He had no question to ask. A senator or a man had a word with him on the grounds that his presence was natural. In addition, it is important to know how a word is addressed to other members of the council when it is considered appropriate for the individual to have not been warned and to be given the opportunity to be there and give an answer to him. [[Up front.]] In case of a moment. The head of Congress of Pirata's House, Thorhld Sunna Ævarsdóttir, is giving in to the fact that a president is biased in his activities, and he protests.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u20	President. It's all about recording how the President judges the freedom of Congress at the Hall of Congress. We'll just go over it, cut it together and review those rules. There is no way that there is partiality for members of Congress and their freedom of expression. If a president feels hurt that there is a possibility that he might not be correct - it's all human. At the very least, all human beings and presidents are to thank only if they tell him that he could not possibly be equal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u21	A respectable president. I was sorry to see what it was like to interrupt speech. Piratian senators, including the U.S. My talk at a time when I had a discussion with the highest. Prime Minister. Also, it happened recently on a committee, I'm not going to inherit it with a respectable president, but lately I've got the feeling that it's less patient for me to go. Senators Pirata are complaining about things here at the council. It just doesn't work. What I came up mostly to consider, though, and ask a respectable president to answer if he thinks it's some misunderstanding on my part, is: Does it matter to a respectable president how much fun the speech is, or is it a respectable president who likes it? That's how I understood it. I can't believe it's the right thing to do. I ask a respectable president to explain it a little more clearly because I still feel that it is inexplicable. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u22	Every time, presidents who own a chair are in trouble about when and when it is not a reason to comment on the presentation in the audience. There is no simple rule, and of course, presidents are human. In the recent case of many of the presidents, it has often been a test whether or when it is appropriate to ask men to watch their words, or to ask men not to use words to members who are not in a position to give a reply, etc. This has often been discussed with the presidents at the Presidency Committee, and we try our best on the subject, that I believe. The president rejects his biased actions. The president absolutely rejects that it matters from what category they come when presidents, or presidents, try to maintain a good order in the meetings of the Generals, as they have the legal and constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u23	President. The president says that he refuses to show partiality in this matter. Everyone can be biased, it's only very human beings to be biased. Everyone has one of them, a degree of partiality, and what is important when it comes to realizing it. Pointing out this, one should listen, review his actions, and then see if there is any potential for bias, and then just thank you for that tip.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u24	If the members of Pirata do not consider the president to be responsible for his work, they will provide a political arrangement to handle this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u25	Mr. President. I took this matter into account on the committee that I have outlined in a talk. The law to extend now for two years violates the basic concept of the special delivery system, and that's why I was warning. In addition, tax burden is transferred and placed on future taxpayers. However, we in the United States will vote with the bill because it's part of the collective agreements. They have made a promise that this is one part of them, so we say yes even if we warn against the idea behind these changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u26	Mr. President. This bill, which will probably be approved now, is taking a certain step on social security travel, and it's a positive thing. However, I feel very important that we senators see to it that governments fulfill their promise to do even more and to take greater steps immediately to the next assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u27	Mr. President. I think it is proper to mention some of the main points of this matter, but I would like to begin by beginning with the discussions that have taken place on the nature of the discussion that has taken place on this important issue involving the Constitution, sovereignty, and important resources of the nation. In that way, the value of the ancient salute, Mr. President, they say most of Ólafur, a king who has neither heard of him nor seen him. The problem with this so - called filamentist is that the talk that has been called that name has discussed many aspects of the matter. The discussion has included an analysis of the available data in this issue. There's a lot of them and a lot of them. Similarly, much information has been obtained. A lot of information has been received. Both media articles have been published, as are important organizations that have opposed the approval of this issue, which have been eager to publish important information related to this issue, including the U.S. on his Web site on the so - called Internet. In this discussion, members of the Central Party have endeavored to analyze this information, draw conclusions from this, and evaluate the matter in a broad context. There is reason to consider three key points. They are subject to warnings, they depend on potential damage issues, and they depend on the relationship and contact of the European Union in a large context. Thus, on the part of the government and those who have described support for this matter have been described, at least of the majority, that what made it safe to accept this case would be following what is called a legal court that would see to it, as you might say, that it was done on every corner, and it would all be together in one piece. When you have been asking about this legal advance, Mr. President, the answers have been very ambiguous. There have been a wide range of ideas, suggestions, and claims on where he is looking, and it is not to see that the final conclusion is found in this case. It has not been arranged, Mr. President, to present a legal opinion on the premise, if found, so that the case can be evaluated in such a context. On the one hand, Mr. President, we've called attention to very important factors. I don't have time to go very thoroughly into it, but it is summed up in footnote 62 in the legal opinion of the Fririks Friðsson Hirst and Stefán Már Stefánsson, where they say, by permission of the President, a state-of-the-art Enforcement Program of a company: -- and they could mention this foreign company, Superlinking about Atlanticals, or something like that would be called on the Icelandic --However, turn to ESA with a lawsuit against Iceland. Such a situation could be difficult in Iceland. As a result, Arnar Þór Jónsson has officially taken over the district attorney. Third, former prime minister Pálsson has called attention to this by permission of the president, while men agree to the princely rule in this case, they are in effect acknowledging the princely burden of the European Union's full involvement in the United States is being built on 6.5. That's what people are standing in front of. It seems to be offered by the government groups, the left green, independent party, and the forwarding party.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u28	Mr. President. There's one thing in the speech of a man. A senator I didn't realize completely. It is the risk, or preparation, of this matter that is taking full place in the European Union. We know that at least two of these existing governmental groups have had the opportunity to enter there. I want to pray. A senator to explain a little more clearly to us how he believes this case can become a guide or a means of accessing Iceland and becoming a competent member of the European Union. I ask the senator to review it in view of what my name Pálsson, former chairman of the Independence Party, has abandoned, and has brought it forward a little more clearly to us as to how this development could possibly be made and what signs are next on the way, the closer on the way to the full level of commitment to the European Union as far as it is right now. I think there is a full need for those who claim that the government is fully aware of their status and in what position we have this case and in what position they are putting the matter in the whole. In case of a moment. A senator would go over it a little with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u29	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. First, I would like to be able to access the source that I listed in my talk, and that is an article by Þorsteinn former chairman of the Independence Party and Prime Minister, who appeared on the Web site of the Ring Road on May 28. I referred to the article in which he spoke of the princely position in this case, as he put it, saying that they are, in effect, acknowledging the princely burden on which the European Union is fully established. Among the princes I assume that this is the case, in fact, it is being asked that instead of making mutual agreements for access to markets, we are standing before access to the European Commission's European market we play a role in providing access to resources. According to a review of the case, a former minister of foreign affairs, Jón Hannibalsson Baldvin, who knew how much had to come when the Icelanders joined in this cooperation. He said that access to markets would not be an option for resource access. Today, that trend seems to be changing. Now it seems that we do not feel appropriate for a nation like us, who are not a member of a member nation, but who are members of the European Economic Area, with the objective of caring for our interests, from types that we consider important and relevant to our national interests and beyond the nature of the cooperation involved. [[The president calls.]] These are very important things, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u30	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. I want to look at other things, i.e. The warnings. There are now some, like two fine men as well. A senator referred to earlier, former Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson. A senator and a chief. Minister, and Arnar Þór Jónsson, said that the warnings made in this case are of no value. In contrast, others are like croaks. paritaprevir Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gundarsdótttir, who has described it as having not only a belt and bracelet in this matter but also a pair of overalls, an adhesive toes, and new shoes. It's a question of what that munchering will do for the courts. I would have added a clown's nose, but all right, that's a taste. I want to go over it with a what. The senator's actions, as outlined in this way, indicate what was foretold by the premonition. They stand before courts, considering that. A senator? Or will the case be dismissed on that basis? Will people laugh at them for a long, long time, throwing the case out, and we Icelanders lose it? Then there's something else that we could record, and maybe I'll pick up a talk later, and that's the possible damage we might be experiencing. But first of all, I'd like to ask the senator to give me his opinion of the warnings and, in particular, the description of the convention itself and the notices and whether this may help us or benefit us in the possible lawsuits of this energy package and the power deed that we believe is there, which they claim they have a valid reason for.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u31	Mr. President. I thank the senator again. Any discussion on this matter by the government seems to indicate that the legal opinion of Stefán the Már of Stefánsson and Friðrik The Árni of Friurik Friðriksson of Hirst was quite a shock to them because of what is clearly said. On page 18. 35 in section 4.4. The results of the exposition of the state to ESA, according to Article 8. Regulation No. 713/2009, says by permission of the president: ▪ With the tip to the foreword, it is the conclusion of the authors'opinion that there is considerable doubt... Mr. President, I will allow you to repeat: ▪... a great deal of doubt as to whether or not the decision-making authority to ESA will be held at 8 p.m. Regulation No. 713/2009, as planned, in the EEA Convention, under the decision of the joint EEA Commission on May 5, 2017, is included in the official Constitution of the Republic of Iceland No. 33/144. ◯ This is not the only point of doubt, of nowhere else, as well as of the conclusion of the team opinion. The legal arrangement seems to be the source of this. He is to deal with this. He is designed to glorify that effect. When asked about him, Mr. President, the answers have not been clear. The answers have been many. We had come to count under our leadership. paritaprevir Gauti Hjaltason, who has police experience, to five, and then the other two were added from the dog. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir and I'm not sure they're all numbered. But I have to admit that it is still unclear who is the personal legal agent and on what is to be built in that relationship. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u32	President. We are naturally warned that if there is a possibility that there is some political merit, there is no such thing. As members of Congress, we have sworn an oath to the Constitution on this matter. The constitution says we should. In Congress, it tells us how it is done, and all of us have signed it. So if there's an opinion about the constitution, we need to take a good look at it. Throughout the years, I personally have drawn close to the matter so much that I have given the constitution the benefit of the doubt. If it's an opinion, I haven't followed what the Ministry says about how this has been done before, it's not that much expedient, etc. I've said, "Yeah, but even if it happened before doesn't mean we have to go beyond that. ' That must have been my approach. That's what I've said at my council, and I've pointed out when I've been asking about a governmental notice, I've got to know if that's my interpretation of it, that's what I want to do. So I want to ask you why. paritaprevir Ólafur Isun the Ísleifsson of Izzma, what is his understanding of going to the constitution? How far can we go without giving up sovereignty? Can we join NATO? Can we share in the United Nations? So we can't join the EEA? If it's a government concept, must we reject everything that comes from the EEA in this regard? Then I know I can't certainly sit in the government if I'm going to do it, if I'm going to follow my convictions in this matter. I'll be pressured to vote, even if it's a government manager. So I'd like to ask the senator about his interpretation of the Constitution and the Senate to keep a constitution. When it comes to government - ordered warnings, does he feel complete in his convictions and at a vote here at the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u33	That'll answer the question. Senator 10...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u34	Excuse me, I'm going to shoot in, because I've got some time left. That ESA can fine an Icelandic lawyer directly and it doesn't have to go through any institution -- would be a problem. A senator would say that was out of the question in a constitution?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u35	The president was not going to interfere at all. A senator, but the president felt that he had finished speaking.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u36	Mr. President. For the Icelanders, that is how there are no regulations in the constitution, No. 33/144, who directly authorize government exposition. When being prepared for participation in the European Economic Area, it became clear that this was a very important solution. In this regard, there were four highly selected jurists, and based on their conclusion, it was considered safe, as assessed on their part. On the basis of their opinion, and it can be found on the Generals web as you examine the data that came with the law of No. 2/1993 on our involvement in the European Economic Area, this opinion is expressed. It has been discussed by scholars, and it is particularly mentioned in the alphabetic order of Björg Thorarensen law professor and professor Björgvinsson Þór, professor and former judge of the European Court of Human Rights and current vice presidents of the National Court. They have been very early in developing a sort of legal scale, we can call it a standard, but that is, of course, not a good word. This can be seen on page 6. 479 of Professor Thor Björgvin's European rights book. One of the most important factors is whether the expeditation is clearly defined and defined. There is an entire chapter about this in the two most widely quoted cultures. When you face the fact that they have such strong warnings that they have, you want to be very careful, so I answer a question. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u37	President. It's exactly these words that came from the Ministry, from the way the process works, it's that if there's any rules agreed in the European Union on something that has to do with the common internal market in Iceland, along with the rest of the EFTA countries, outside Switzerland, the case goes to the General Assembly and to the General State Department. It will go into the Commission and the Commission committee before it goes to the joint EEA committee, which will then send it back to the council, where we are now talking about the third energy package. It all happens first. Then the case goes to a board of directors and surveillance committee, and they ask: Is there a government manager? Then comes an answer from the Ministry: ▪ This has been done many times before. This is well - defined and clear. Still, we were just at dawn discussing a case on a board of directors and surveillance committee. I was the only one who wouldn't sign an opinion to the Foreign Affairs Committee, Prime Minister and Foreign Minister, and then to the joint EEA Committee. I said no. Even though this has been done before and the Ministry says it's well defined and well defined, we're about to authorize ESAs to be fined in Iceland. There is no need to go directly to the State. There's no need to go straight to any institution. It can fine a lawyer directly for not providing information. Then I said: " No, I feel like I'm going by the sovereignty. I think it's a sovereignty deed. So I didn't sign it. At least that's my interpretation of the constitution. I want to let her enjoy the doubt in these matters. That's what I'm trying to figure out. What does it mean by this approach? paritaprevir Ólafur the son of Ísleifsson? If this is the definition of sovereignty, what will he be able to do in the future? Where exactly is this definition of sovereignty? Can we do this? We are saying that there could be a legal ticket directly to the Icelandic ticket because the third energy package allows ESA to make a decision on the string, to make only decisions about the cord that they can directly decide on, and a planning agency would have to enforce it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I could then go to courts with the issue of sovereignty - it's really important that we get it clear where it is. A senator puts it. [[The president calls.]] Where's the line?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u38	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for wanting to discuss the matter on such a high level as he does. I know what he's talking about. That was 2016. I have endeavored to study the legal opinions involved. I am quite aware that this may have been a crisis in that situation. A senator mentions. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, as stated at Stefán Már and Friðrik of the Árni, one is talking about the surveillance of institutions in a largely international market and the other that we are here talking about warnings on 43 or 44 pages that are being given to foreign citizens at least An indirect effect on national energy resources. Organizations are spoken of as being made up of something that is spoken of as practical. I don't think it's quite equal. I believe it outweighs, Mr. President, when we're talking about resources, but when we're talking about managing financial institutions here that work in a global environment. Question question. A senator has every right. She is very good, and I am so happy that I had the opportunity to answer her in this way. Similarly, I will use this opportunity to draw attention to the fact that the two authors, Stefán Már and Friðrik Árni, write an additional section, which they clearly write after they made their statement to the State Department. They will discuss in particular the scope of the General Assembly to interpret the constitution. Their conclusions are this, Mr. President, by permission of the President: So the Lawgiver should gently step to the ground in these materials. These are the reminders of these excellent writers, and I think we must give them careful thought. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u39	Mr. President. What we have missed most is that the members of the board have not been able to come here and participate in the discussion. There was a slight change in it a few days ago, in fact, in the wrong sense, as you say, when it happened. A member of the Independence Party, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, came up in a pant under the House of Congress and discussed this matter. The day-to-day party is a matter of public interest, so everyone knows that it is not possible to talk about it unless it is written in advance, and of course it is written. A senator does not intend to participate in the discussion with her. Then you will be forced to review the talk in the discourses here, and of course you will be open to the point. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir can come and give answers and give talks that answer to what I could say about this. In effect, she said in her speech that she knew there was a lot of misrepresentation in the discussion. She even said, by permission of a president: It is e.g. It is clear that the course proposed here at the payment of the third energy package is in violation of the constitution. There were many times over it at the moment. The U.S. Department of Foreign Affairs and everybody agrees. You see, Mr. President, it's not quite so because a lot of people have come up and said that this case is in a way that it doesn't pass the Icelandic constitution and/or, as a precaution, they're pushing it to the limit. Then it says why. Senator, with permission from the President: We also had a very frequent discussion of the subject. State Department. And, as one lawyer who visited us, Skúli Magnússon said, it is legal to argue that a third energy package will lead to the obligation of the Icelandic state to sea cables. If you think you can persuade the Icelandic state to connect with an electrical cable, this risk has been at hand for 25 years, and the third energy package has changed nothing. These words, in effect, make you sound, but they are much like what has been discussed in the small part of what the directors have expressed themselves on the subject. They have handled specialists whose opinions have fallen from their language. The point is, no one's talked about the idea that the United States lay a cable, not any human, so I've heard of it. However, it has been quite prepared and came to form until the end of the last week, if I remember correctly, and is just one of the things that has happened after we discussed this matter deep in this discussion, that it is a foreign company, a foreign company called Atlantic SuperConnections if I remember correctly, excuse me, Mr. President, but it's not a Icelandic name on the company's website, which has already guaranteed funding on a sea cable from the UK to Iceland. This company claims on its website that they already had a conversation with the current board of directors, i.e. Minister of the current administrative sector, and there is a transnational wish for this to be done. And they have their agent in Iceland, who is one of the old, self-important and middle managers or who has participated in the institutions of the category. So these fine men say on their website that they are in good contact with ministers from all government groups in Iceland on this matter, i.e. ... tostapherefromtheBritish. The United States has nothing to do with the weight of the cord, and it is not financed by anyone besides it, it is financed by the world's largest banking institutions. I can't go any further, Mr. President, and I need to get back to the rosary because I haven't answered all the false reports that were presented to you for a speech I was witnessing to.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u40	President. I'd like to ask the Senator the same question. It seems to me that in this matter, whether or not we're handing over too much of our sovereignty to foreign institutions is one opinion. Another factor is the control of the resources, over the planning authority, i.e. Our resources, which create the electricity in the country, and then the entire network, all the infrastructure, companies, etc. I can say that when I first heard of this danger, I was really scared when I first heard the first talk about the third energy package and began to study it. I'm not afraid today. But with regard to administrative notice, I will continue to do what I've done, which is allowing the constitution to enjoy the doubt. I'd like to ask the senator. We're together on a board of administrations and monitoring committees and the opinion that the senator is given there, about six, seven, eight weeks ago I don't know, that was some time after the New Year's Eve, an Commission and surveillance committee is assigned to the foreign Affairs Committee, which then goes to the Foreign Minister and to the Joint EEA Committee. And this was about government opinions. There was a warrant for the ESA to pass a fined ticket to Iceland if he does not provide information. I felt that this was going quite far into the empire, that I would say it repeatedly on the committee, and that I wanted to get an answer to this. I'm trying to find the evidence in this case so I can point in exactly what case it is, then I'll do it later. That's where I thought it was a rough move into the sovereignty and can go straight to law enforcement. It is one thing that two sovereign countries make their agreements and create some kind of statement that can judge the agreements. It's another thing that this law could go directly to the legal body in Iceland. I thought it was beyond the constitution. How does the senator feel?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u41	Mr. President. It is a pleasant innovation to get an answer from those who have not been in the discussion all along and who are like you, in the perplexing tone of voice, because those who have given so little, other than those who have been prior to this discussion, have generally made such comments in ways that are not very objective. To answer that, I'd say why. A senator on page 18. 2 In the review of the year - to - year lawyer Eyjólfur's Ármannsson. He says that the implementation of EU Regulation 713/2009 will be carried out properly by the rules of law, which has amazed many. Just so I can answer because we don't have much time, I can't. A natural senator took a look at what I was pointing out. This fine lawyer says, by permission of the President: Therefore, it would have been expected to introduce the right national commitment to Iceland's key natural resource by a Regulation but to review later - if a cable is to be laid - the legal basis of that Regulation and also to consider whether the induction conforms to the Iceland Constitution. Obviously, the government itself is in doubt about both the legal basis for the proposed implementation of national rights bonds and if it conforms to a constitution. Thus, like other experts whom we have quoted in this discussion, he argues that the introduction as it is planned now is not going to the limit or that the Constitution is to the limit. I agree with what. A senator there, we have sworn under oath to this constitution, and it is to be enjoyed by the doubt. [[The president calls.]] It is truly sacred to us in this regard. Since then, these governmental orders are not permissible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u42	Mr. President. I'd like to reiterate the question, but the answer wasn't quite clear. The reason I ask is that if there's a threat, we should point it out, and we're supposed to be defending public interests in all matters. In this matter I became, as I say, afraid in the beginning that there was a great danger. There's always some danger in everything. A person must always weigh the risks and why to respond and how, what to say, the harshness of a person to respond. The risk depends naturally. I'd like to ask the senator that it is clear where he will put his administrative notice, for that is his conviction that governs the Constitution and the council. What is the limit when it comes to allowing the deed of sovereignty? It's written by their name. Yeah. The Holsteinson's Sæmundsson Sæmundson is of the opinion of the management and monitoring committee on the Constitutional alert to the State Department, which goes to the Joint EEA Commission to allow ESAs to be legalized directly in Iceland, is not a violation of the Constitution. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If the senator feels that it would be good to get it clearly, so that we know exactly where we are.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u43	The president asks why. Councilmen, all alone, respect the time limit presented.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u44	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. It is quite clear to me and to all of us who have been involved in this, that, as it is stated here, the limits of going against the constitution and even breaking it are more than one reason. Since short - term memory is signed, I do not remember the resolution referred to by the senator and, of course, will enter it, i.e. when it was made and where it was made at the time. Hv. A senator says he was afraid, but he is no longer. We're just as scared as we started. In itself, our judgment, our information during the discussion on matters that we did not know when we even went to the discussion at the time, which have been still building this case in such a way that it should and should be sent in whole to the joint EES committee so that it will be discussed there according to Article 22. That's a deal. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u45	President. Little by little, however, the speculations as easily as possible. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson made this statement, which, of course, is very important. See page 18. 36 In the opinion of Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson and Friðrik of the Árni Friðriksson son of Hirst, Stephen's son and Friðum concluded that there is a serious question as to whether the exercise of power will last a constitution. Now I'm asking why. In view of the fact that we now know and have seen flashes of energy in pack four, which have been submitted and approved by the European Union, it is not important to examine further, especially in view of the fact that we now know and have seen a spark in the four available energy package, which has been approved by the European Union, awaiting the evaluation and induction of the EEA. Is it not important, then, that we discern the context between these two energy packages, whether the continued power supply is planned in a pack of four, and when the power supply has become so much, assembled in a energy pack three and four, we must stop and stop? I find it very odd that the members of the board, the members of this case, do not want to see the effect of a four - pack of energy, because they have it in front of them like all of us. He's online with the European Union. Then I'd like to ask. A senator to another. Now you've got your ex-whipped. paritaprevir This is pointed out by Frosti Sigurjónsson and tried to open the human eye to see how electrical power prices can rise as a result of the third energy package and have given sound reasons to do so. They're simply such that if a foreign person builds a power plant in Iceland, he should be allowed to connect with the national energy network. And if it is not ready, it must be built up for it. Man's husband, after identifying who pays the bill when it's so important that if a foreign person wants to build a power plant and sell it in Iceland, he will need to strengthen the infrastructure? [[The president calls.]] Who will be able to make sure that it penetrates the Internet after loading the energy package?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u46	Mr. President. Thank you. A member of the council responds and agrees with him that it is a joy to have someone come in here somewhere else with objective inquiries about this matter. This discussion began more than two weeks ago, and as it deepened, as more and more people think, the reviews have developed a new and more serious picture. I completely agree with that as it is. A senator says, now that the fourth pack of energy has been publicly revealed - because it had not been delivered to public distribution, some stakeholders had actually received it, but not e.g. Generals, and I don't know that it has yet been done. But there is good reason to review his context with the third, of course, and his responsibilities toward us. We've been over it repeatedly in this discussion that if we'd known what we now know, I'm not sure that the first and second energy packets had gone through like they did in their time, they both went through without any apparent discussion. They went through without any criticism. That's why there's now an opportunity, and not just an opportunity, but now it's an obligation to break down and stop. All we've asked for in this discussion is that the package will be rejected so that it will be treated in a legal way as to qualify for justice and national rights. That's all we've been asking for. [[The president calls.]] True, this involves political uncertainty. But that's the natural thing we're dealing with every day.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u47	President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. It is suggested in the opinion of the group I quoted earlier that they say that there is considerable doubt on whether the decision - making power to ESA - and they actually cross the ESA and the ACER organisation and draw it up finely that ESA is actually the recipient, does not take the initiative to write down positions or results from differences. Among other things, the English word for "Englishhaʹ, " i.e. in the report. Some here have said that it's okay to introduce it because we delay the administrative problem. But there is a problem. There is uncertainty, though. Is it not, then, more challenging to settle any doubt about the constitution and determine now whether it stands perfectly or not? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u48	Mr. President. Yes, that is exactly what is stated by an interview in the Morning Press on April 10 with the Second John Friðriksson Hirst, which says that the terms relating to the constitution are actually postponed, and we have, in fact, claimed to do so too. He believes that this involves certain compromises. And then he's quoted, by permission of a president: But sooner or later, there is a need to take a second look at prognostic factors relating to the Constitution. The figures that are being referred to here by means of the process of legal uncertainty - more than one and more - are the main concerns. Because, and I should have brought it in the opposite direction earlier, that the thing is big, that we can't appeal to it. We often make mistakes here at the General Assembly, which, in turn, will be adjusted by a new legalization for long periods or prey. [[The president calls.]] But it's not here because there's no other way back than giving up the EEA whole deal if it's going to be the way we were concerned. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u49	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson for the speech. In this case, there are warnings that play a little about the discussion. There are two kinds of defenses. On the one hand, we are talking about what is called a government manager, a legal one. Let's go over this, Mr. President. The collective committee often quoted is a committee appointed representatives of the European Union, EFTA, Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein, as well as representatives of the European Union. This is the common committee. On the scene of that committee, important decisions are made. On May 7, 2017, the third energy package was set up. It's decided that Iceland on the one hand doesn't have to record those types as they call it, i.e. Regulations, directives subject to natural gas. However, the situation, as in the past, was settled so that the countries set up a so - called administrative notice against the approval of that decision. It is the administrative premise that this synonym is about and by approval it will be removed, and then we have shouldered the national commitment to bringing in the actions of the Icelandic law. However, the legal guardian should weigh the possibility of this encountering the constitution. Now that the legal guardian has not been found, there has been no clear answer to what it involves. And I'm asking why. A member of the Presidency Committee: How badly prepared a case must be, how poor must it be, and how weak is it to be dismissed as unconventional? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This case is not arranged, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u50	Again, the President reminds me of what happened. Congress officials are to respect the norms of speech. When the red light starts burning, a speech is over.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u51	Mr. President. It may sound reckless, therefore, I thank you. A senator's great concern for this question, that the person being present has not investigated on the presiding committee whether this matter is deemed accepted. I naturally assume that the conference office, organized by professionals, has gone through this and that it is that way, but, of course, it would be the full reason and is well reason to ask in this regard so that no one will doubt that this case will meet all the conditions. It has been said very widely and is coming, e.g. ... as well as the comments of Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, who knows this agreement one of the best living in Iceland. He says in the conclusion of an opinion form where he crosses the advance, with the permission of a president: Therefore, the general situation is that it is inconceivable to advise the terms of linking with the common market now by means of stipulation or unsuspecting warnings, and the lack of knowledge of any information on the over-the-offs of a wide range of consequences, to be found at that time. - Which, in other words, was a phrase which was used earlier in the text. Of course, that's the way it is, and it must be seen when we have a case in our hands where there's a serious doubt that the case is in the constitution, when there's a serious doubt, and now I'm trying to be polite, that those who have been made are not worth the money, i.e. when they feel that you have had a glimpse of how they are, that it is possible to do nothing but to protect both the constitution and the nation and try to prevent this issue from going through here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u52	Mr. President. Just to make it up, the government claims to have a legal court case. When asked where the legal person is, she cannot answer that question. Individual members of the administration team have risked these and other explanations. They run in number from six to eight. None of them seem to be so grown that they would be considered of the EFTA Court or of national value. And I give a description of a lawyer who would answer to that in order that some of the hypotheses mentioned here were of the least national value. Therefore, I reiterate my question: How is it possible that the Council is offered the opportunity to accept this matter? The key precept for the approval is legal. He hasn't been shown. There is no doubt about where he is looking. Is this a matter over a head spoken for Congress, Mr. President? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u53	Mr. President. I can repeat what I said earlier that it is in itself an insinuate thing to do not drive a serious outcome into whether this matter is deemed systemic or not. In fact, as I have said, the information has been presented after the discussion began that has raised even more questions, more suspicion, and in itself confirmed the fear that this case contained in the constitution and there was a great doubt about it, so that you are polite again, that they would be ashamed, when they were found who had been announced, even when they were found. In regulations and other matters, stood before the judgment. It will come, for example. It was well until the interview I witnessed earlier on April 10th. to the Friðrik Árni Friðriksson Hirst. There, he makes a very clear, balanced explanation of his doubts. We're supposed to listen to specialists, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u54	Mr. President. A few days ago, after this discussion was abandoned, I was in the middle of a series of subjects studying. Among them, I was going over our biohazard companies and our possibilities there. I was so far away that the next time I was going to cross so - called deep fevers. I had just prepared it, but I'm going to make it wait because of the pause that occurred during the discussion and use this part of my talk to discuss the matter in a very short time, if that brief talk makes me desolate. First, I'm gonna go back to the background, i.e. The nation's connection to the energy resource, the fallen waters. I've been through that in a couple of talks before. My conclusion was that we, as a nation really decided, out of the middle of the last century, had to activate our major fallways to some extent by loans to facilitate the activation and distribution of the network to a major industry that has gone into here and that everyone is aware of, i.e. The plant in Straumsvík. We did this as a nation at the time when it was a great thing. That was a great thing, Mr. President. We took long loans in mind that when they were supplied, perhaps a quarter of a century later, the population of this country would benefit from the low energy prices in this cold, dark country, of which Iceland is undeniably a large part of the year. This was the dream of this young nation back then. I also reviewed how much wealth lies in the energy resources, not just the falling waters that we have activated on 2,000 mega megawatts of force, but also the geologic activations that we have activated, over 700 megawatts with force, and we continue on the road. We make the best use of this to the big business. The possibilities, however, are much higher in both steam - power activation and deep - watering processes that could lead to much more resources being found, not to mention wind energy that is enough here, but only to activate. But it needs to be put on course as well. It's under the government to set a policy on these issues, so-called energy policy. She hasn't. However, it is here with the third package of energy directives prepared in central Europe and should apply here. Let it be, I have to run over a considerable number of chapters of this speech. Then comes this third energy package, which is made up of several regulations and directives from the European Union. He's coming here. There are some problems when they see that humans have doubts that this will pass the constitution, i.e. the application of some of the authority, in some articles in Regulation 713 and more. Doubts about whether this will pass the constitution. One of the reasons which is good for a reason. Friðbertsson Njáll Trausti's in the hall, Trausti's remains are known as a break in the neighborhood. It's known from the flight, I think I'll handle it correctly, i.e. If planes get very close to each other, they take it as an independent incident, which is being investigated. You use this in terms of the Constitution because if any law comes from the European Union, they'll say, "Hey, this is almost against a constitution, but not quite enough. Let's bring this in. Then the story goes on, and this happens again. There's an increase in the distance violations. Here we have one thing, and one person uses the same reasoning: Hey, this has happened before. We've come very close to breaking a constitution before. [[The president calls.]] It's okay. I'll continue my next speech, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u55	President. I would like to ask the senator that we will explain in our discussion: "Where are the boundaries of keeping the constitution, as we have sworn, when it comes to administrative issues? Is that enough, is that what the senator has set to himself? Because he must lean on his convictions when it comes to the decision he makes here. He likely needs to give some evidence of whether he or she feels that it has the constitution of the decisions he makes. I have personally done my best to give the constitution the benefit of the doubt. I've made a mistake there. But I have also been here referring to the administrative matters of the government of Sigmundur Davíð when it was being spoken of government matters. But I say here in the chair: No, it's an opinion. We can't. We have to keep the constitution in this regard. It may be possible then for a person to make a mistake, or after considering the matter further, a different definition. [[The president calls.]] What's the definition? A senator's Limitation? [[The president calls.]] Does he have clear boundaries about what he needs to do about administrative matters when it comes to keeping a constitution? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u56	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for these speculations and questions about when I'm feeling good, I think that was about the constitution. When do we get too close to her as members of the council who have made it their promise to respect the constitution? I feel that we must look to expert words. There are a number of opinions in this case, and we have heard many lawyers on this subject. They don't agree on this. What I mentioned in my talk was e.g. The fact that I don't think it's enough when men argue that now they've come closer to the constitution more often and now they've come back to such a case, and that's why it's all right to do so. I don't think that's enough reasoning at first. Second, I'd also like to point out that Norway is a completely different system of things, and I'll get to that in the second answer. [[The president calls.]] This is a very short time for me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u57	That's right. It's one minute to go. This discussion is handled by members of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u58	President. Let's take something practitional. I was confronted with one of the Commission and the Commission recently regarding the implementation of Regulation from the European Union. She's coming through the EEA together to Iceland, to the Minister of State, to the State Affairs and finally to the Commission and Control Committee because it was a administrative committee. We will then find out that this has been done in the past, that it is well defined, well defined, and clearly so that all should be fine. That's right, man goes further and longer, and someday the whole world will have gone too far. So I didn't want to sign this because there was also an extra step. It was not that ESAs could go to Icelandic government, government, or Icelandic institution. The Icelandic institution, as in the case of the third energy package, was authorized to walk in the Icelandic bill and fined him, that ESA could do so. Does the senator feel that he is crossing the line to keep a constitution?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u59	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. I was already in my answer to Norway. In this case, if it is thought that there is a constitution and that there is a possible violation, there is a source in the Norwegian Constitution that the Council approves of such authority, as this issue is debated in these requirements from the European Union, the Parliament can simply agree, with a greater degree, to allow it. In Iceland, things are completely different, like what. A senator may know, we can't do this. Even if we were here 50 or 60 who'd agree on that, it's not enough. We're still violating the constitution. We have to take it seriously. I agree with what. Senator. Of course, it's our duty to take this seriously and to have a good reason. Senators to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u60	Mr. President. I believe it is of great benefit that the discussion we have discussed has been about where the boundaries of the exodus can lie and have a good reason. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson recorded a point that makes it possible for foreign institutions to use legal decisions against financial companies. We discussed this earlier today, and I took into consideration what I believe is a sign of the Friðrik of the Árni and Már, that it is not compatible with a financial enterprise that operates in the international environment and with the national energy resources. In this it is defined as the use of these measures, and there is no creative or final, statistical standards, but it is an individual assessment. [[The president calls.]] Hv. paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautiça gave a fine talk that I thank him for: Does he agree that it must always be appreciated?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u61	Mr. President. Yes, it is now with the law that sometimes things can not be measured in meters or kilograms or things like in mathematics, so there will always be a problem. That is why we may be in a situation where there will be no measurement of what will be read unless it is so clear, which is rarely, that it is obvious. However, these experts, Stefán Már Stefánsson and Friðriksson Friðrik Hirst, believe in their opinion that there is a significant doubt that this is contained within the constitution, mainly with 8 pars. Regulation No. 713 and, actually, other things that go pretty close to the constitution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u62	Timeouts are still remembered. It's one minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u63	Mr. President. Thank you for the advice of the President on these matters. They're always helpful. Thank you. A senator for the answer, but I thought he was closer to astronomy and physics than mathematics in his analogy here. But I could not better hear than that he was agreeing with the view that, of course, this is a finished menu. Then I'd like to ask if: When comparing these two cases, one case that leads to the nation's energy resources and another case that leads to financial companies working in an international environment, he counts and agrees, as I do, that this comparison is based on grammatical grounds, that it is normal to compare it? Does he believe that in the nation's resources more caution is needed than in the other case?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u64	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleyfsson's prelude. In my first talk, I forgot to thank him for his question and meditation on the constitution. Yes, it is now the basis for many of my talks on this matter when I refer to the energy resources, how important they are to us and to us as a nation. Of course, what is involved is important. Of course, the budget, at least its international level, is large outside the landstones, in business, but energy resources are still in the country and for use in the population of the country, the public, and belong to them, the state, the public, and have been for a long time. That's important. I've also been pointing to this country's unique status. It's an island, it's a small island, it's a small island, and it's a very special place. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's cold and dark here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u65	Mr. President. Thank you. The speaker and I would like to express my joy with this fine overview that he has taught us and that we can recall how we built up our electronic energy systems, energy efficiency, and so forth. This has been very informative and important inputs into this discussion. I'm here with all the reviews that came before the committee and I've bound in a special book. There are some facts. That's exactly where I found a review from Iceland's Natural Institute of Nature. The approved third energy package is not opposed by a natural plant because the sea cable has not been passed. She does not really take a stand on this matter. I see time goes by fast, but I just want to come into the environment, okay? Senator. [[The president calls.]] Have they not been given too little discussion on this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u66	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's son's offer for the question. Yes, I agree with that, and just in a speech earlier, when I called for energy policy on the part of the government, where people take a course, they set some goals. Where are we going as a nation? Are we going to activate more fallen waters? Are we going to activate more of the geothermal activations? Are we going to go through deep water? Are we going to a wind power plant? How big can they be? How many? How high ass, etc.? As a nation, are we going to seafaring insurgents? Are we going to go to the waves? There's no policy. We'll call for her. Of course, this is an environment because all of this affects the environment in a wide variety of ways. Like what? A senator does not care how he or she works.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u67	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator who agrees with him that, of course, something wrong is starting at the wrong end, i.e. The amount of work that needs to be done in energy policy should naturally have been done so that these things are more clear to us, the effect this will have on us. This induction is laying the groundwork for a sea cable. I think everybody agrees on that. Then, it should be at the hands of the Generals to decide whether he will be laid. Nevertheless, it is important that everything is included in the discussion, the effect of the activation process, as it were. A senator correctly mentioned, as it is quite clear that already there is an application for increased efficiency in energy efficiency, the wind plant as an example. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u68	Mr. President. It was very interesting to review the history of the continuum transfunctioner because my conclusion was that, and it is not at all a new discovery but, quite frankly, a well - known fact, that the deforestation workers in this country have actually come to an end. Of course, we can activate the various years and add to this, but all the large continuum transfunctioners and something that is highly valid, such as. Meltting with one 700 MW will not be repeated. It won't be repeated, what? Senator, unless you walk on the resources that you may be able to place under environmental factors such as Kappos and Gold Falls, etc. Then people need to take hold of our most precious pearls. So people don't go too far there. So people have to find other resources, as I have been pointing out, the wind power and steam mains. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u69	Mr. President. Now, the man standing here is riding on a white horse in the pantua and I just want to announce in the discussion that we're working on a energy policy for an Icelandic community. That work has been going on for a year or so. The members of the Central Party are represented in that work. The data has been collected for that job. The fine team on work at energy policy for Iceland has since ended April last year, and now the policy team is about to begin. I myself sit here in that group. I'd like to pray. A senator answering the question: Is it so? A senator doesn't know that he's been working on energy policy for Iceland and that work was going on over the past year? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u70	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The question remains to be asked by Njáll, Trausti of Friðbertsson. Yes, I know working on energy policy. That's the best thing to do, and I will, of course, be happy when it comes. But it's like running, you can't run until you've set the course. It's a racetrack before it's run. It's similar. We're very far. We've been activated here for decades, and the speed of the activation story is great, as if I've gone over it in case of an emergency. A senator has been watching. We work more and more every decade to look back. Only since the year 2000 has it increased tremendously. Of course, energy policy, though earlier, needs to be available. But, of course, I'm glad to hear it out. A senator who is working on a energy policy and will be very soon. It is a cause for rejoicing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u71	Mr. President. The third energy pack has been taken for 135 hours, and there have been plenty of talks that will require energy policies for the Icelandic nation and for Iceland. They're working on that direction. I would like to point out that working is specifically on 22 points, which are the main points in the project. What has a what? A senator mentioned many of those points in his talks? We are not about to adopt European energy policy in Iceland. We're working our own course. I thought everyone was clear where we're going. I thought that everyone was aware of what interests are behind not setting up foreign energy policies in Iceland. I got it. I got it. Councilmen of the Central Party to study the work that is being done on energy policy and the 22 points that show the policy of various national energy initiatives for the long future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u72	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question or tip that I should study energy policy and the points in it. I want to point 'em. A senator says that much of what has been presented in this discussion, which has become quite long, I can't remember how long it would be to examine before men compare energy policies. I'm not going to go over what it can be. I don't have time for it. I'd also like to point my tail. A senator should examine the induction of the one, two, and three - and - four energy supply, which is expected - very carefully when working the energy policy and the effects that they can have within the country. Take men e.g. ... ofthe fourth energy pack when they're making energy policy for Iceland? Is there a reason to bring him in too? Won't it also be said, "Hey, we've got to generate a four-pack of energy, we've introduced number one, two and three?"
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u73	A respectable president. First, I want a little bypasse in my speech on that point at hand. paritaprevir Trausti Independence Party, Njáll Friðbertsson, mentioned earlier, just so the matter doesn't fall between a ship and a dock. It has been repeatedly called on by the middle class to explain why we believe it is a reason to postpone the case, to put it in a certain direction, to put it in the fall, even further. The scene's coming up. The fact - it may have been mentioned in the previous discussion, although it has been a long time since the members of the board participated in the discussion and is commendable. paritaprevir I'm expecting Trausti Friðbertsson to be with us until night, I presume - to be working on energy policy for Iceland, like a boy. A senator came in with 22 core points, stressing that we are beginning on the wrong end. Of course, we're supposed to finish this work, finish the energy policy, take it to the council and then continue with the EU energy package as reasonable as it seems, if that makes sense. Now, though, I would like to include in my speech the first talk after the brief pause of the discussion of the third energy package. It is thus a matter of growth that there has been an all - air issue saying that there is a reason to bring forward the council, there is more of the constitution for completing this, and with the argument, we in the Central Party would better call it a good thing to call it. Then, too, we must ask ourselves, " What is chosen, what is it? ' paritaprevir Is that Trausti Friðbertsson's name, because I hear you're on your way back to answer? What choice was chosen in the election over a year ago? Could the Independence Party supporters expect the Independence Party to ride in the head of a formation at the induction of the third energy package? Is there anything in the evidence that will be available in elections or articles that would indicate this? I don't think so. On the contrary. Did the Agency's supporters assume that the Agency, while he's taking part in the US Champion's hide-and-seek competition, would in any way be providing support for the third energy package, just as it happens? There could not be any supporter of the House of forwarders. Just nobody. And less likely, those who adhered to the class's policies and conclusions. It's also said that this is the time to bring in the council. The greatest pity is likely to deserve supporters of the left green, since no group has been more aggressive against earlier energy sources. The herd of greens was completely rocked with all the votes against the first energy package and against the second energy package. I don't even think that there was a reason to look for information about what the left green attitude was about the third energy package. So clear had been the category in earlier stages. Then come here, the few who stop in a pit, though few, very few come to answer, primarily by some chancement or digesting of their money pages, and say that it is time to reveal the intent of the assembly. As long as it wasn't said of this choice, the evidence indicates that if it had been a matter in elections, these three groups would not have the strength of Congress to pass the case through. These three groups, which have been rocked against this earlier induction, which said to a energy package one and two, and to a pack of three, although no one had checked with left green because it seemed so obvious, those who supported them now find themselves in the position that there is reason to finish the case, that the intention to reveal, these groups who probably had never achieved more would have remained in this matter. There are various reasons to continue driving the case, but this seems to be the case, considering the views of the groups at the earlier stage of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u74	Madam President. I keep asking. You can ask questions and so, so the conversation can roll a little bit well. What I'm trying to figure out is what the line is. Councilmen aim, saying that the induction of the third energy package is a controlled-of-view, and on this basis we're talking here. I fully respect the fact that the senators are here, using a file system. I've kept saying that if you're going to stand up for your national will, you're going to have to do with huge interests, that's what I'm supposed to do. Well, then you're obviously supposed to be a filibuster. At the same time, you have to be very careful about it in all discussions when you scream wolf, wolf, you have to think it's a real wolf. And also if you realize that it may not be a wolf, it may be just a puppy and not as dangerous as you originally thought, then it is important that you be willing to back up with something that can be difficult for politics. Let's just say that those who are here for the discussion are honest about it - Peter Drucker, the father of today's management, points out that it's good to just start there, just start from there. Then I began to think: Okay, what would you ask? You'd ask, "Where's the line like that?" Regarding the constitution, do members of Congress draw on the commitment to the Constitution, pledge to keep it? Where is the line where they feel that they cross the line on the Constitution when it comes to surrendering their sovereignty to other countries? If we are going to be in international agreements if we are going to be in the inner market, we will have to cancel some power if we are to sell the fish in the inner market without the barriers there. It is important that we do so during the discussion. I'll keep asking what. A senator. Let's see if we can figure this out. Where does that move? paritaprevir The Bergþór Ólason line with regard to the state deed?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u75	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for the counter-sponsored response. To a question like this, it's very difficult to come up with a specific answer, but I'm going to try anyway. In this case, one of the divine reveries, a class that is truly interested in the entrance of the European Union in Iceland, spoke of the use of praiseworthy deceptions to get the case to the place where it is today. That remark has usually been linked to the so - called advance, which is somewhat confused, but it does not matter entirely to this part of my reply. I think Pálsson, former chairman of the Independence Party and the current Reservation Society, was also referring to this rotation, including this. to postpone the administrative problem until the time of the sea cable being laid. But then there's something that may not have been so much discussed, that there's this hide-and-go with the role of the ACER as a sort of - I'm going to say that it's trying to get past the two supporting solution by becoming the ESA in the role of a mailing boy in terms of ACER's position on issues that may arise. I can tell myself that this is actually the most stinging point, i.e. the role of ACER as the reviewer, secretary of the result, or what we would like to call it, in the reference material where ESA is said to be the formal decision-making agent, when it appears that ESA is primarily intended to reflect ACER's results in issues of controversy. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u76	Okay. There's something we can get closer. I thank the senator for that answer. What I've been told when I've been investigating this case is that if there's a cable, you've been connecting two states together. Whenever two countries are linked together with some kind of inner will, both countries can come into business. If there is some issue of transport, in this case, electricity transport, or transport - France and Britain are linked by tunnels, Sweden and Denmark by bridge - both parties may be involved and have something in common, e.g. some kind of crime, or if there's a case of opinion. I've heard that the only thing that ESAs can make binding decisions about protecting the transwarp cable. Doesn't the Senator think so? If not, I'm going to need to take a closer look.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u77	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer from what happened. Senator. The concern is that when Iceland becomes linked with a sea cable, which I'm going to let myself say is all likely to happen in one way or another, whatever methods it is used to achieve that goal, when this situation has become the European Union energy policy, the criteria, the goal of the overall system to achieve it. In other words, decisions will be made on the objectives of the European Union. [[The president calls.]] I think it's perfectly clear. But later, I'll have a better time for it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u78	V.E.G. President. Now it's been pointed out, including In the reviews of this case, by subtracting a controlled warning and implementing these types, we are initiating the ideologies, objectives, and policies of the ACER Institute, which are behind the common energy market. It's true that we're working on energy policy for Iceland. It's been worked on, but it doesn't exist. There is some policy since 2010 or 2011 or what it was, which can hardly be counted as valid. In fact, in that direction the cable was covered. I don't know if it's going to be in the new course. Is it not true, then, that the European Union's policies and goals in that energy policy are very strange to go in today? All the ideas are revealed in the document that the European Union calls Pure Energy for all Europeans. Actually, that's the fourth energy package. All this energy package has been installed and connected to one place, and this is part of the overall policy. Then you ask if it is normal to continue implementing goals, policies, institutions with which the European Union is in its energy policy, to continue implementing it in Iceland before the Icelandic policy is completed. I'm asking about this because it's important to me. While we're doing this, and we don't have our own energy policy to take into account, we're building the EU energy policy because it's written into all this energy package. For example, the four energy packets are now being modified from an energy package of three at the General Assembly. It's one combination, all these packages, it's one course we're doing today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u79	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson answer. The European Union can be noted that there is no hide in its policy and aims of induction. Anyone in this room can go online and read about it, and especially now that the fourth pack of energy has been supplied by the Council of Ministers. I don't think it'll be safe to say that the source of the first energy package and a second energy package would be much longer than required, and then the third energy package, including the first energy package. with the evidence that we have managed so well to introduce one of the energy packages, and then plan to say in the future to the European Union: Well, we had nothing better to do that day, so we put it into the system, but at the same time we were building our own policy and we're going to aim for it. Of course, we are signaling that we are going to be part of the common market, apply the rules there, and conduct our affairs accordingly. Other things are just outwards and outward appearances, and people are supposed to talk about things the way they are. The conduct of those who speak most intensely for the induction of the third energy package on the basis that has now been set up has in earnest by a man who knows well and knows well as praiseworthy deception, from the former chairman of the Independence Party, the Þorsteinn of Pálsson's son, the present reverender. Little wonder that the doubts of those who doubt the induction do not diminish with this description of the march.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u80	V.E.G. President. The ex-president of the Independence Party, that was. A senator mentioned, too, has been delighted that this induction takes place because the European Union has an excellent drawback. It seemed special to me to see the Independence Party fight for it. Now we've got a pack of three, and we've got a pack of energy. It has been reported that the four energy package is connected to the EEA, i.e. That the EEA has to record it either in part or in all. I wonder why. A member of the Parliament what are the chances that a European Union's energy policy, three or four energy sources, or four, may be contrary to the energy policies that are being introduced by energy packs three and a unit of energy. Will we be able to take up some policies that take major factors against EU energy policy, against a pack of three energy, a pack of four?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u81	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. I think it will be hard for humans to assure themselves or someone else that it will be simple to have energy policy in Iceland that the third package will be introduced, followed by the fourth pack introduced, and with the sea cable connected. I think it would be in some play that doesn't have anything to do with real life. I think it's perfectly clear that we're on the assembly line, so to speak, in that matter and on the bicycle of four free freedoms, just tummy and turn in the right direction, and always the same with these materials. I don't think it's the best way to say that an energy package based on a energy package can be introduced here without affecting the possibility of an independent future policy in energy market policy. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u82	Mr. President. I'd like to read, with president's permission, from the task force letter for long-term energy policy from 23 April 2018. It says: For long periods of supply and demand for energy (both electricity and heat), a global policy must be considered. Both current status and the planned future development and energy forecasting. Energy policy needs to answer the question of how we are responsible for filling energy needs and energy security. Energy policy also needs to cover the transport and distribution systems of electricity and take into account the issues presented in the Government Treaty of the Government. In addition, energy policy needs to be supported by reasonable employment policies and to look at the interaction between energy and other key work practices. You see, one of the highest policies in the present world. Government is energy, national and national energy policies, which is an important factor. Why didn't they choose, ask why. Senator, in the last election on a pack of three energy? Nor was he chosen in 2013, 2016, or 2017. Since there are positive and positive things I think now about the third energy package, there is usually a nation's energy issue, as we've mentioned many times, far too little discussed on the scene of the council. I'd like that, that'd be a good thing in all the discussion, that's why. The members of the Central Party study a letter and the work being done in the energy policy to reach the discussion on the subject at a slightly higher level. I'd like to ask you what. Senator: How does the discussion about the third energy package relate to the energy policy for Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u83	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The answer to Njáll, Trausti of Friðbertsson. To answer the question about how a pack of three energy relates to the Iceland energy policy and work on it, I thought it was happening. I think I have even said so directly in the speech earlier that I thought that it would be unwise to do the work being done exactly in building energy policy before entering the EU energy package. I haven't talked clearly before, if that wasn't in the way. Hv. paritaprevir In fact, Ramídi Friðbertsson encourages us in the Central Party to introduce to us the letter of the group that is now developing energy policy. That letter I know well, and it was read from earlier on. There's nothing in this letter to reduce my concern about the induction of the third energy package, nothing. I've told you very clearly that the work is done so that we do this on our terms, but we're not adjusting our policies, possibly, to some pack we've received from outside. We're supposed to finish the energy policy because I think it's working a really good job. I know it's good for the Norwegians to do that work on behalf of the Central Party. I think I have answered the question of the senator, but to frame it in my mind would be to lie down first, that would be the right order for the parts. When we keep in mind that the Minister of Industrial Affairs has simply said that there is no problem with postponing the case until the Fall Council of 2019, I just don't understand why we don't make that timer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u84	Mr. President. The reason I'm asking how this two things connect with, i.e. the long-term energy policy for Icelandic society to 20-30 years, and the third energy package, is that all the energy pack three is about is the transport of electrical energy to infrastructure across borders. The energy pack three will not affect anything about our long-term energy policy for the Icelandic nation and its use, how we keep custody of the energy resources, or how we transport our energy across the country, so that it is clear. It's about the infrastructure across the border, the transport of energy there. We will shape our energy policies, Icelandic society, as we are working now to the next 20 to 30 years, on our terms and on our interests. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u85	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir To answer from Njáll, the son of Friðbertsson. I must admit that after all the discussion here has taken place, after 135, 136 hours, there is nothing in this energy package other than the factors involved in the linking of infrastructure to electrical transport across borders. There's been a great deal of talk about it being such a consumer thing. All you can do is change energy dealers. That's the big deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u86	The big movie.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u87	If that's the big movie, like the oar. paritaprevir "It's only about these infrastructures, " says the son of Njáll Friðbertsson, "that since it's not a matter of finishing this." If that's the case, we'll put this off until the fall, we'll postpone the discussion right away, just now. It has been spoken without letup, if you can talk about nonstop talk, in connection with the talk of the advocates of the energy package in this discussion, about the fact that it is so consumer business, that there are so much rights and transparency and rainbows and pearl powder to cover us. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is interesting news.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u88	V.E.G. President. Here we are again, just waiting for a little break from this discussion. It should be clear to all the need to assess the effects of the third energy package based on the EEA Convention. I make it clear that with these words, I'm not throwing the EEA deal down. In this context, it is necessary to examine other types of the EU, which have already been legalized here or are likely to be legalized. These include the EU services directive and the Regulation 347/2013, the EU system development programme and the European Commission's consistent management of provision for building infrastructure for energy transport between regions or countries. All of the EU's regulations are to put together to reduce public property and management and to promote free competition. Many people in this area have swallowed this movement, such as codfish bites a squid, whether the hook is rusty or has damaged bait. The argument against such a lawsuit does not keep at all, including for reasons I'm going to trace here. First, Iceland will never be free competition in a European way that forces the power prices to the minimum of what it can be thought to be due to the fact that there will always be few competition and the position of the energy processing of the enterprises is inexplicable. Thus, energy costs in all EU ways are hardly going to benefit those who earn energy. We are that small nation. Second, likely they are not at the point where they are ready to view electricity as one another's product, since energy is different from that of other products. Electricity is no ordinary product. Of course, most people consider energy to be a resource and resources to belong to each community and serve its interests. That means even. that energy is new and appreciated for the benefit of society in a different way than in the euro. The partner or company owned should be allowed to use these resources and set the rules of rules that are most suitable for society, for the benefit of society. Similarly, the distribution system may be viewed as essential to society's infrastructure. We need to be careful that the decisions we make democratically on the use of energy resources will be fully met. In this regard, it is vital that we have complete authority and control over these matters. During the induction of the third energy package, we are likely to lose custody over how the energy sector's normal work becomes. Of course, we should view the electrical energy system as everything necessary at society's core. Of course, such interiors are to be responsible for the nation's responsibility and to submit to the rules that the nation is completely at peace with. V.E.G. President. This is definitely the time for me to ask for the general council to think seriously about the situation. It is too long to enumerate all the warnings that have been said. What is at stake here could be e.g. The Constitution, or future, of the nation and especially of the nation must be careful not to lose control over the energy resource. Let us remember that the effect of accepting this synonym can be seen later, after five years, after ten years or even after 20 years. Who knows? But it's our responsibility, our friendship with the generals. There's no rush to get this through. [[The president calls.]] Let's stop.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u89	Mr. President. I'd like to keep asking about the constitution. There is one of the factors in this matter of sovereignty, deed, and where we set the boundaries, perhaps something that we especially need to consider because we have sworn an oath to the Constitution. Then there is the natural problem for the people of the country, what burns on the population, but that is the danger that many imagine is losing control over our resources, energy companies, and energy sources. I want to start by trying as if I've been doing to get it clearly into discussion where. Congress officials who talk about this administrative notice, which many experts have spoken about, set their own limits, when they feel that they no longer live under their oath to the Constitution. It says in the Constitution and in the Constitution that we do so in order to keep a constitution. I'd like to ask the senator about this. I've done my best so far, but I've made a mistake as far as any senators are concerned to vote with a case which was then a administrative opinion. I've been very clear in my council that this is my position regarding where I feel I can't go further, i.e. Allow the Constitution to enjoy the doubt when it is considered. I'd like to ask the senator where he stands. A simple first question. We have two sovereign countries that, like two legal individuals, can make agreements between them, and that is some kind of judicial case or someone who can judge it. When it comes to the United Kingdom in the EEA, it is the EFTA Court or ESA that makes these decisions and can make them binding to some extent. But how does the senator feel when a member of the EFTA Association can direct a fine to the Icelandic legal entity, such as the case of a recent administration and surveillance committee? [[The president calls.]] Does he feel it's going too far? Or does it have a clear idea in general where to draw the line?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u90	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for the counter-sponsored response. This question about the constitution and its intensification, or something in this relationship, is in my mind in this case that there have been members, advocates, lawyers, and jurists, and that they have simply reached their limit of endurance. But this is not a claim. Rather, it is presented as an opinion. In this regard, we may be at the point where we are going too far. When you hear such warnings, you want to pause, look into the matter more, and get it to the place where it would be placed on a clean surface, such as. As we have said many times, returning it to the joint EEA committee. At first, the matter should be delayed until the fall and further information revealed. This discussion has demonstrated that there is always something to reveal that was not previously known. That's how I look at it, and that's where I step down my foot.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u91	Mr. President. If I understand the senator, he'll stop if there's experts pointing this out. I'm trying to get something exactly where the line is or at least as close as we can get. So it matters if there are some experts who say it. Maybe they need to be a decent proprietor or what? Is there enough expert? The senator may have a certain menu. There were experts who warned about this when the financial surveillance system was being introduced. Humans can change their mind, and humans can make mistakes. But this was in the days of the government of the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson Gunoll. I don't know any better than what. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson brought it up. It was like that, wasn't it? Okay, but this was at least the government of Sigmundur's Davíð. And I was up here in a speaker's office and said, "We have to give the constitution the benefit of the doubt. " Is it there that a senator would say: No, now we have to go back to the EEA Committee. [[The president calls.]] Do I get it right? [[The president calls.]] If there's any doubt in the expert community, he would step down and say, "Go back to the EEA Committee." [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u92	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for his answer. I'm not well acquainted with the case the senator mentioned, but I say, if men have made mistakes, I'd say that I am a great skeptic in this case and that the doubts that have been offered on board are quite sufficient for me to slow down or just stop the matter and revise. [[I agree.]] It's so simple to me. This is not a matter that if we look into it a little further, it will not change anything. It's not a drink, it's not a problem at all. It's just that way with me and all of us who are going to make this stressful.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u93	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his fine speech. What I was wondering was these legal warnings, and perhaps especially because of what I was thinking. A senator is on a professional committee. Today, where that legal warning can be found, whether in a singular or in a divided number, has been pointed out to be various possibilities. Sometimes legal warnings, sometimes legal warnings, are spoken of, so we do not fully understand them. Well, maybe. A senator revealed something more about it, because he's in trouble. A professional health committee? It has been estimated that the legal warning is given on the job committee, as shown in the discussion. Has a what? A senator was with him on the committee? It has also been believed that the legal warning was to be found in electronic laws, a bill for electricity. I can't figure it out because the change in electronic law is like 39 degrees. current power layer. I can't figure it out. There's nothing new there, so I don't know how he can be there. It has also stated that the warning is contained in the EFTA declaration. I can't figure it out. It has been identified in the European Commission declaration of energy. I can't figure out how he can be found in that statement. It has been shown to be in a Regulation expected from the highest level. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers. I haven't seen that rule unless I figure it out. [[The president calls.]] I can go on next time, but I've got it. A senator was on this legal notice on the job committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u94	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for answering. No, I haven't seen this advance on the pro board. I have to admit that I was on vacation the other day when he was being interviewed on the committee, so I'm not good enough about that relationship. But I've heard it in speeches. A senator, a captain of Gauti Hjaltason, found that his search for omens has not been very effective. The warning that men have been talking about is from me and from many others, if they are anywhere, more to home bridges, and little at all, what to say, not to protect, but to keep no water. All agents who are made must be in contracts agreed by both parties in my opinion. As a result, they are the warnings that are not meant to cry out to their parents. So we have a case at the Council, the so - called raw meat, which we have for the development of an evil necessity because we were judged on this matter, Icelanders, because there were no warnings. Should it be a warning to us, to try even more on this matter, for though the other is a very big matter, this case is even bigger. If you step deep into this pool, it is hard to get out of it again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u95	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I haven't been able to count my warning yet. I had the fifth thing left. It has also been pointed out that the legal warning is contained in the letter of the synoptic arrangement that we now discuss, pp. 3, and I've read that text. None of the five points I've mentioned, and possibly there's more, enough. None of them will do if it is due to the induction of the energy directive unchanged, as we are here, in order to free us from the national commitment of the European Union's energy directive, none of them. Government officials are asked about this: Where is the legal guardian? Where is he? Can we see him? But they forgot to explain it in a human language to the nation. [[The president calls.]] Yes, Mr. Senator: You are doomed to explain to us and to the people where they can find them and what their national value is. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u96	The President reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u97	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for his refreshing answer. Clearly, the Senator has already looked for doors and dances, and I trust him completely as a learned lawyer to appreciate this matter perfectly. As the senator put it, governments have run underground and have not provided a sound explanation for the warnings mentioned. I agree completely with him on that. In view of the case I mentioned earlier, we must pray that this will be stopped and done much better in the case so that, for example, it will be done. These things will be resolved. It is best to be able to come to an agreement on such matters without being on notice. The word foreordain is more to my mind than to suspicion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u98	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator's speech. I noticed specifically that he mentioned the need to be accepted, if I heard correctly. I think it's a very interesting suggestion by now. A senator because this is a very big matter. It has to do with future generations, our children and grandchildren, etc, and can affect the homes of the country, the companies of the country. It is clear that the induction of a three - pack of energy is a prelude to the approval of a four - pack energy package, and we're here looking at a cable within a number of years. I think it's perfectly clear that he's coming. The director of National Reactivation has, among other things, been That's what they say. In this case, special attention is given to the fact that the majority of the people are opposed. The workers have concluded, both the European Union of Iceland, the VR and other societies, that this directive should not be introduced and that it is deeply concerned that electricity prices for domestic households are going to rise. We have demonstrated here, Middle Class, in our language that at the induction of a energy package one and two, electricity prices increased significantly and in so - called cold areas in some parts of the country because these energy packages, commands by the European Union, banned special contracts covering subsidies. I wanted to ask you what. A senator would see whether he could look into this and see what the consequences would be of such a conflict with the people, the labor movement. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u99	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For answer the Birgir of Þórarinsson. And when he had entered into certain matters, he first mentioned good things, that it should be at peace. If something needs to be settled, this matter must be a national agreement. We're talking about the basics of the nation's resources, which the energy is. Hv. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's farms have often pointed to it and waved bills showing black in white that electricity prices rose in the time they entered a pack of energy. It tells us that if we continue to infiltrate, for example. This package will most likely increase electricity prices. At any rate, we need to take into account what is said in these contracts. As a result, natural protection has been widely referred to over the years and should not contribute to increased efficiency. This must have been quite a touch on the nature protection grounds. There's not been much discussion about the climate in this regard. Is there any better for us to meet the climate problems we face in the world, as we have much to discuss today, if we are self - sufficient and take care of our own affairs here at home without starting to connect with other nations with an electric cord? [[The president calls.]] It was famous now when a senator spoke about dirty electricity a few years ago and was making fun of it. [[The president calls.]] But the subject was absolutely right. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u100	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. He came in there on a very interesting show, it's just nature protection and content with nature in the country. It is clear that these plans are steps for further energy efficiency. We can now see this with a keen interest in activation below 10 MW, they don't need to have environmental assessment. We'll see this in plans for windmill gardens, etc. Clearly, those interested in this energy industry, these projects, provide opportunities to open up within a relatively short time to sell pure Icelandic energy from the land and it will affect nature. I think it would be necessary to have this discussion on the table in this regard, i.e. nature protection and impacts on the environment. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u101	V.E.G. President. Yes, that's the point of nature protection, like. One of the government groups, left greens, has talked a lot about us watching out, that's nature protection. I totally agree with that. That's why I think it's very special that the fine company will be involved in this case, knowing that this will create a more aggressive attitude toward nature. It has, for example. They are referred to as having visual pollution in connection with the windmill parks as well as with air lines and other factors, as well as increasing the guillotine here and there, though I may not see much ugliness in it. But there are different kinds of human tastes. One is that way. This is all something that needs to take much more time in order to achieve the peace that needs to be achieved before making such a decision. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u102	An exceptionally respectable president. It is a pleasure to have the opportunity to continue a discussion about the third energy package, since there is no need. Since our last discussion of these matters, there are many new things that have come to light, new arguments, new things to say, so that I'm saying right now, to worry about, and new questions to ask. In order to put things in perspective, however, I feel that it is only right to start with a brief overview of what has been presented up to this point. This is not a complete overview. It's like the highest. The president knows much about this discussion in the middle of the night when people have not had the opportunity to observe it, and the result is, of course, that it may have been difficult sometimes to keep threads about the overall context. So I'm going to tap into a big deal about this case so that I can bring it into what has happened since the wait of a discussion. At first, this case was presented as a matter of no importance, would have no effect on us Icelanders, would be just some technical action of the EEA. But at the same time, especially after making comments, it was said that it was extremely important to finish and introduce the matter. V.E.G. In fact, a industrial minister had mentioned that the matter might well be delayed, but then it suddenly appeared, and we were told that it would have to be completed. The concern of many large parts of the Icelanders, the majority of the Icelanders, much more, was to form supporters of all governments, and the conclusions of these classes were answered by so - called omens, that the matter was now solved. Yes, it might have been right to worry about it, but it would have been solved with the so - called warns. In view of the fact that it was the very ones used to sell the case, so to speak, Mr. President, selling it at least. At that time, in the Middle Ages, it was important for us to find out exactly what the warnings were and what they were willing to do and whether they were able to produce the results that were claimed to us that they would provide. In fact, this was shown by a foreign - language committee by experts who said they had not seen warning there. But they had already studied all the evidence, but they had not seen the warnings and made it clear that the premonitions needed to be that way - and this is the absolute principle, Mr. President, I have mentioned it before I believe it is important to underline it now - that introduction would not take place. Just as they sometimes agree to the council's initials in which a post-conviction is delayed, the warnings in this case would need to be that the introduction did not occur until something had taken place. But that is not the way the government has gone. She speaks for it and relates the conclusion that the matter will be made as a whole. We then asked: "What about the warning? Where, then, can we find them? That was exactly why. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson, who asked why. paritaprevir Birgir Ármannsson, a council member of the Independence Party, asked that question. But then there was footsteps and fatness, and I have no doubt at all. The President remembers that. Then, in effect, the search for answers began. At first, it was executives who started their search, ran from room to room, and looked to papers in search of warning, but this search was of no greater success than we were at the Central Party. Ever since then, there's nothing to worry about. paritaprevir Karl Hjaltason Einar even held the studies, the search for the answers, as if he were merely included in a talk earlier. Mr. President. How am I supposed to be able, even if I'm pulling on a big one, to cross the leading line of what we're talking about in just five minutes? I understand that. The President can't give me any more time at his time. I'm waiting for the highest. President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u103	President. I keep asking if there's enough time to discuss this: I'm late for a game, about a administrative notice, i.e. where the line is. For the government of what? paritaprevir The winners of Sigmundur's Davíð Gunnlaugsson were a case in which government - based opinions, such as the case on financial control, came from the EEA. Björg Thorarensen brought that figure into the committee. However, the matter was accepted at the council Hall, and this is done to the board of directors and board of directors taking it, saying, "Yes, there's an opinion there, but this will be done in a councilroom. It's then sent to the State Department. The Foreign Affairs Commission claims that they agree with the Commission's opinion that it's a matter of opinion, but the members of the Committee don't agree completely, but it'll be settled at the Senate Hall, it'll settle the matter that way. Then the matter comes here at the council hall, and then there was a reason. paritaprevir The prime minister, Davíð Gunnlaugsson, won't be there at the voter's office. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson votes with the case. I suppose that's all I can assume, except that it's because a board of directors and board of directors says that there's a matter of opinion about the Constitution being held out in a Congressroom. It's a vote with the language and the what. paritaprevir That's what Frosti Sigurjónsson does. Today, people make mistakes, and they may change their view of where the line is on hand. I have personally made a mistake in this regard because it was not clear when I was asking people if the Constitution would hold a case. I had another definition. It has happened, even after I was clear about my stand. At times, I had been misinformed and made an uninformed decision, but I thought I was informed. I want to ask you why. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, where his line is, when he is convinced that a case will stand in the constitution as if it is a constitution to do and has sworn there. Where is his line of keeping the Constitution when it comes to the surrender of power, sovereignty, to the institutions outside the country? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u104	Mr. President. I'm gonna start by thanking you. A senator for being here with us. That's highly appreciated. Even though it was. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson is part of the government's opposition, so the government has been as interested in the introduction of this matter as the administrative point so that it is very useful to have a different perspective, and I would like to thank you. A senator for that. But I have to correct him. I was not prime minister when the matter of the financial watch he asked about was introduced and doubts about the right thing to do. That argument, if it was. A senator would like to think of him as offering reasons for that... [[No.]] No, he wasn't arguing that this case should be approved. He is talking about something quite different and what happened in the past. I understand why. A senator would fall into that direction because some of them were, of course, suggested. People of the Independence Party, especially those who tried over a period of time - and I actually enjoyed it very much, Mr. President, it had become so funny - to explain that they would just have to bring in this energy package because of all kinds of events between history and history. that I had ever been the prime minister to meet David Cameron and agreed to examine the effects of a cable, but I also said that I didn't think a cable would be suitable for Iceland. But just that I'd seen in a picture with those names of mine British, interested in a cable, tried hard. The members of the Independence Party have to use as evidence that the council should merely accept this matter. It tells a story about how funny this has become. I hear what you're saying. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson that he is not using this as a argument. - Mr. President. Now that we're all out of time, I haven't answered a question yet. Senator. [[The president calls.]] Wait a minute. A senator apologizes for this kind of forgetting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u105	Thank you, President. Yeah, you're right. It was about the fall. Hv. paritaprevir That's right, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson was not prime minister at the time. So it was during that election period and the reign of government at the moment. A senator was the prime minister involved in this and his party members, including men who are now members of the Central Party. No, that's not logical: That's exactly what I've said in my previous answers. The fact that something has been done is certainly not a reason to do it again. That's exactly what I've said in a board of administrations and monitoring committee when I've paid votes against the opinion that administrative notice should be lifted, it doesn't pass a constitution. The reason I ask is that Peter Drucker, the father of modern management, I listen to him a lot, says: "Start to assume that people are doing things faithfully. What questions then arise? The question that arises with me is, where do they put the line on the constitution? That's why I'm asking. I'll ask the senator again, "Where does he put his lines on the constitution?"
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u106	Mr. President. How nice it is to have such a fresh approach in this discussion, and I'll be careful now to answer the question I forgot to answer earlier: Where do I put the boundaries on the Constitution and especially the introduction to the European Order? There's at least a line at least there's evidence that we don't exclude authority, authority, to the institutions we have nothing to say. The answer to our concerns in this regard has been that ACER, this joint energy agency in Europe, does not really have power in Iceland or over Icelandic energy because ESAs become some kind of mediator. It's been pointed out, including. The role of ESAs is, in fact, to convey ACER's directives and even, if ESAs have any additional role, it is to monitor Iceland more effectively, in fact, the ACER and the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u107	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The speech was given to Davíð Gunnlaugsson. I refer to him as the former prime minister, who is involved in a great conference experience, at least more than most people present. Now, as he discussed, the situation of this warning is that the search, including the search, has been under way. with a member of the Central Party with a highly trained man, but nothing has occurred in the quests that could be imagined, Mr. President, that any legal person would believe that had at least a national value. By accepting this proposal, we are removing what is called a government decree. By doing so, we have accepted the national responsibility to introduce these types, including Regulation 713 of the highest degree of doubt. The government has not been able to explain this clearly to its members or to other members of the General Assembly in each legal arrangement. They have about as many explanations as a number of senators can see, they have become so many. Then comes one of the senators after another from the task force and measures, as you please, the deepest conviction that it is the personal one. I ask with reference to what I could about in the beginning: Count back. A member of the council that this matter is really and truly legal if it is necessary to accept the legal arrangement? Is it an assembly when it is not available, when the members of the House of Congress do not know who he is and who he is, apparently deluded and muffled, each one with his own theory of great conviction? In my second answer, I'm going to discuss some other grounds for the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u108	Mr. President. I have to admit, it's a little hard to answer that question. Of course, we have seen a lot of bad work done, and in many ways we have been introduced into the council, which still seems to be a contingency because they have been presented in ways that can be arranged according to the council. At least I can. While I wonder why. A senator temporarily declared that the matter is not readily available. The case is not political, not political, because of that, as well. A senator pointed out, and I quite agree with his argument, that, in fact, it is brought in here by deception, though it is. A senator didn't use that word, so I'm content to quote the former chairman of the Independence Party, Þorsteinn Pálsson. Pálsson considered this deception commendable because his purpose was dedicated to the occasion and then went on to explain that, of course, this matter was an important part of his future journey to Iceland in the European Union. There is a discussion, Mr. President, which I hope I have the time to consider thoroughly with speeches. The part this case is in the adaptation or entry process that many people hope for, of course not me and the media. I kind of have to pray. A senator to respect the fact that in terms of the question of whether the matter is being handled, I must have a closer look at it. I'll even look for help. paritaprevir Gauti Hjaltason if he has time, if he's not too busy yet while searching for a warning, and asking him to investigate this specifically so that, in the future, I may be able to answer a question. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u109	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I also wondered about the tactics. This case is said to have been extensively treated. Please note that there have been one nine meetings in the Foreign Affairs Committee. You're supposed to understand that there's more coverage than any other case here and that because it's got so much publicity, it's safe to agree on that. Yet, the discussion has produced a number of factors, a number of factors that remain. The unrecognized legal guardian is just one example. Another is that this issue is not associated with the fourth energy package ready for 1,000 pages of Brussels. This issue should not be discussed in the context of the proposed judgment in Norway of September 23. It is not to discuss whether we are living with paying for this cable that this foreign company is planning to put through the damage requirement according to the rules of those matters. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I would have liked to have a little more time to follow these questions. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President, I'd like to say that I've been in a speech chair too long.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u110	The president reminds us of a time limit that is one minute in a subsequent pass.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u111	Mr. President. Yeah, nine meetings at the Foreign Affairs Committee, says why. Senator. I remember they were seven before the present discussion. That's a second discussion, and I'm guessing two of them before that. Because of what? A senator makes this a subject of publicity, I would like to point out that we were asked by members of the Central Party that a number of guests who could have shed more light on this matter would have come before the committee. We also asked that certain matters that we considered unsurpassed would be addressed there. Of course, it's absurd and really strange that when there's already a fourth energy package, and apparently it was formally done just during the discussion of this matter, and while people in the town have been given a presentation on this fourth energy package, it should not be mentioned at all in relation to the third energy package. [[The president calls.]] At the same time, there is evidence for the induction of the third energy package that we must do so because we created the first and the second. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u112	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's talk is excellent, and I would like to discuss just another important matter in connection with this matter. Now's the time. A member of the National Parliament and if I have anything clear about it, I think his territory, the Northeast standard, is the area in which most of it is called cold areas, i.e. where there is no heating. As a result, house - to - house electricity is the form that many use to devour houses. The government has reduced electrical power prices to house warming, which is of utmost importance to those who swallow their houses with electricity, since it is very costly and it is not the same quality of life as that of heating and heating. There is further pressure now on the use of electricity subsidies in Directive No. 72/2009. According to the "F" team, section 37. it is related to the government's surveillance, by permission of the president, to ensure that there are no cross-cuttings between transport, distribution and delivery activities in the first place. This, then, is to reduce the ability of the government to subsidize electricity prices into cold areas. That's why I wanted to hear it from what happened. A senator as to whether this is a serious concern, and if it is not possible that once the energy package is introduced, we will simply be charged with subsidizing electricity to house heating.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u113	Mr. President. Whatever it is. A senator asks about what people have chosen to call consumer protection and, at the same time, market application that comes with the third energy package. As strange as it may seem, this whole thing is supposed to be part of consumer protection and marketing. As in so many other cases, these plans, whether desirable for the European Union or not or for the European Union, are not to be judged, they are to be adversely affected in Iceland. We have a high power status and have been able, in this large and straddled country, to produce a lot of energy and to distribute it, as this activity has been on the hands of public people, much of which will be able to attack large long-term investments and sell energy at critical prices. It's not the same way around here. There are fears that large people on this market may be too bossy, and thus consumers may be overreached. They react by trying to tear it apart in every way, even cutting down companies, at least Very limited the ability of humans to have things in one hand and to do them in a practical way. Also, it is the national reversal that the European Union now seems to be seeing in the face of overseeing when it attacks its market campaigns. I think there might be a great chance that there might be a intervention and reduce our chances of attacking subsidies in cold areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u114	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. You see, I don't think humans are sufficiently looking at the consequences of bringing in this energy directive of the European Union. If We Examine It, No. 72/2009, the text is very clear, and it says, as I said before, that it is the duty of the superintendent to ensure that there are no cross-overs between transport, distribution and delivery functions. In other words, there is a reduction in the possibility that there is an offer for subsidies to those who do not have a heating system, those who drive their houses with electricity. It is of utmost importance, especially for the rural areas, in cold areas, that building electricity is simply threatened by housing conditions in these areas. It needs to be guarded. I believe, Mr. President, that we are on very slippery ice, and at worst, we can go so that the ACER will simply sue us for subsidies of electricity for house warming. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u115	Mr. President. I'd like to add these notes why. Senator. He is certainly correct in saying that this is important in many areas, especially in the extremely beautiful Northeast standard. In the same area, however, many times in general, at least in many cases, employment development has not been as if we'd wanted to see it. This would be the case if the subsidies were to be reduced or eliminated. These are areas that are often protected by employment and have to pay much more for their energy. That's why we have to have a chance of supplying energy across the country and making sure that there's not too much difference between the price that humans have to pay for it. He's too big already, I have to admit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u116	President. We keep talking about the third energy package and we're still calling for answers. The last time I was in the talk, I wondered if I had one 20 questions that I thought were important to get answers before it would be held out, including With regard to the Constitution, the power output, the link between the three energy packages and four energy sources, the development of the products, etc. Mr. President. It is written in an energy pack four that certain articles in the Council will change in the fourth energy package. Why do humans not want to examine the overall picture? Why do members of the Sanhedrin or followers of the matter refuse to see what they agree with, how does this affect the rest of the matter? If someone thinks we can tell you when a pack of three has been created that we're gonna release a pack of four, it's a dream. Either put the heels down now or they don't. The president who now sits on the President's throne has shared in the discussion and has asked many good questions. I know it's the highest. The president does not have the means to respond to the person he stands for. On the other hand, I'm just going to use the questions as a matter of course. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson asked in a talker's chair, a very good question: Where is the line on the constitution and the administration? I've wondered lately if we've reached that line, whether or not we've crossed it. I remember that a few years ago, and I remember that it was, and I'm going to keep a little notice on it, though, that Stefánsson and Björg Thorarensen, who wondered if we could continue to give a little more of the power room. We need to think about that. I don't trust myself, Mr. Honorable President, to say that right now, it's time for an end, that we can't go on like this anymore. Others need to be appreciated, scholars, experts. But I feel that there is reason to stop and ask these questions. Question question. A senator and his current president are very legitimate and important. Then I'd like to introduce it when financial institutions were taken care of at the General Assembly in September 2016. You're right next door. A senator to appear first in 2012, if I recall correctly, and is discussed for some years. The case is accepted, finished at the General Assembly with a definite change and advance, as it may be said, by specific training for Iceland's Constitution. I tell you honestly, Mr. President I'm wondering if it was a mistake to accept it at the time. I think in my heart it was a mistake. I don't think we should have gone where we left off and now we're actually drawing up some kind of way to this energy package. But there's a big difference. We had financial regulations and financial market rules back then. Now we're talking about the resources of the country. We're talking about the nation's energy resources and how we're going to share a form of custody, a state of government and control of our resources with others. Is that what we want? Is it possible, then, that you have taken too much steps with regard to the constitution? It's going to show, including. By the opinion of Stefán the Már of Stefánsson and Friðrik of the Árni, the Friðriksson of Fridrik Hirst, that it is a matter of government. Is such a doubt acceptable? Is there reason to postpone just saying, " Is there any reason to worry about that question? ' Of course, especially when adding to May 24 or 25, the European Union provided a four - pack of energy. It is before us, and I reiterate that he has a appeal to the EEA, and it is to deal with him there, and he also applies for that area. Is it not better, then, to pause and examine the overall effects of using these two packages? Is it really so that members of Congress who are in agreement think this is the same thing, that an energy package can be introduced one, two, three, and maybe four? Then they might as well have introduced a energy package one, released two, and then introduced three. It's a combination, it's a policy, it's a goal. This is what the European Union sees for the future. This is how we adopt the European Union's ideologies.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u117	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. I'm gonna grab the ball where he left it. Now there are theories, especially those of the former prime minister and president of the Independence Party, the Þorsteinn of Pálsson, that in this case are what he calls a prince, a fundamental or principle, which are the same as those who are already involved with full involvement in the European Union. This means that this packet of energy will clear the path for those who want to go there. There are several groups here at the General Assembly, especially two, that seem to have the most important policy of its own that Iceland is to become a member of the European Union. I didn't know better until recently than the fact that the majority of the government's major categories were not in the fact that Iceland should become a member of the European Union. Now here comes a significant man, the Þorsteinn son of Pálsson, who explained this in an article on the Web site of the television station on May 28th of May. that it is almost turning the way into the European Union. Takes it. A senator subject to these teachings, the Þorsteinn of Pálsson?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u118	A respectable president. I believe that there can be evidence of what Þorsteinn's Simon Pálsson mentioned on the website of Ring Road. I think he can back up what he actually said even better than in this article because bringing in the third energy package, at least as he looks today, we are taking up the EU energy policy. We're initiating policy, initiating goals, we're implementing the tools and tools that belong to this policy. They are still implemented in energy package four, type No. 72/2009. It is further implemented in this new energy package. The same is true of type No. 714, reminds me it's more than no. 713/2009, there's more to it. All of this aims to establish the European Union energy policy for the whole EEA, the European Union, Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. As a result, a former prime minister and president of the Independence Party were right. They're taking steps, maybe we thought we'd be late, to start sharing the county with our resource through the European Union. Truly, it is the only cause of controversy that will be pushed aside. You could say that. What next? Is it the fishing road? We can ask ourselves these questions if we are to continue taking those steps. It's really amazing. A senator, that it should happen on the watch of the three categories that are now in the government. Unless they have deliberately made some new decision now and others regarding their European policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u119	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. There may be a few points worth mentioning in this context. Like what? A senator underlined and challenged his answer that energy policy is the key to the European Union's core policy. Europe's policy should be one energy area, and energy islands should be eliminated, as we might call it. We pay attention to the announcement made by the State Department that at a meeting of the European Commission, which has been promoted by some of the supporters of this case, the contribution of the representatives of the European Union was - despite Iceland's speciality and the understanding of other EFTA countries, i.e. Norway and Liechtenstein, of Iceland's special status - to challenge the European Union's position that Iceland was obliged to produce the third energy package. Another factor to mention is that in this matter it seems to be going very close to the two - sided system. This is illustrated by the fact that ESA, the European Commission, an institution to which we Icelanders are involved, accept issues that subtract from ACER, a European institution. The third is that there seems to be an idea that Iceland's comment to individual types is somehow not appropriate but that it accepts quickly, definitely, and indiscriminately, as applies to any other EU state. [[The president calls.]] I agree with what. A senator said that it is very strange to see this way of carpeted or malbolted, or what word you should have of the classes that make up this government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u120	A respectable president. First of all, I think it's true about the two supporting systems we've accepted for quite a long time that it's being weighed down by this process. It is also finely listed in the report by Stefánsson Mostsson and Friðrik Fridek's Friðriksson Hirst, where the role of ACER is opposed to the role that ESA will have in this. Although ESAs can have opinions on the subject, the initiative for ACER in all of this is taking place. That's what I'm wondering. Senator, why there is no difference, e.g. Independence party and reform in this case. Could it be that this class is developing into the direction of the former president of Þorsteinn Pálsson's sonstein that he should develop? I feel that there are more and more cases, more and more declarations coming from members of this old independent party in that we are to share our sovereignty more with the European Union. Perhaps they are calling for their former chairman to come back, and these groups join together to continue biting off our sovereignty. It is also interesting, a respectable president, to see the review of the forward party in this matter. I remember a time when they hadn't listened to us to continue speaking that way. Now they're gonna get down. A respectable president. What's going on in this case is that we're sharing the county. We're sharing with the European Union a specific control of how to manage our resources if we produce this. Is that what we want to do in Iceland? Is the energy policy we want to adopt the European Union energy policy?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u121	Mr. President. I'm just going to come up with an interesting subject that I ran into the university Science site, where it's discussed if the Icelandic government would sell electricity on a cable to Europe, whether they could have a second currency here for individuals and companies other than those in Europe. We have just received reports that land activation is interested in selling energy through a sea cable to the United Kingdom and is then connected to the common energy market and the induction of this directive, the third energy directive, is in its path. We've been told that a cable is a great opportunity, and something like that, and this has even happened. It's from Landing. Another factor is that national activation is like the rest of the people working in the Icelandic electricity market because of competitive legislation and e.g. The principles of the prohibition against misuse of the marketing facility and agreement. Thus, the Lawgiver is, in effect, assuming that the market's laws control the price of electricity with the exception that, in accordance with the subsidies of house warming costs, electricity is used for house - to - house heating subsidies, in accordance with the materials and conditions of the law. According to the legislation on the equation of the costs of electrical distribution, the costs for distribution to the general population in the miliary regions are being submitted according to the laws. In terms of potential marine-seated electricity sales, the objective of the economic precursors, such as the loss of energy on transwarp transport, and the cost of setting up the manpower here at home and then the link to the sea cable, can lead to different prices to Iceland's consumers and consumers in other EEA countries, i.e. The European Union is interested in buying the electricity from here if and when a cable arrives and then it will not be the same in Iceland. On the other hand, the Icelandic State, e.g. on political grounds, wanting to set maximum prices for Icelandic consumers. However, this raises questions, Mr. President, as to what it means in the light of the commitments of the State under the EEA Convention. The rules that we have implemented, energy directives one and two, and then energy directives for the three to be considered, are introduced into the EEA Convention, and are already included in the Icelandic government despite the possibility of Iceland's ability to shop with electrical energy at other EEA countries, although they are already limited as we know. In general, the European Union has long had ambitions to build the economicity of Member States in cooperation with energy, one market. In other words, it is very important for the European Union to arrange electronic energy in such a way that they have been inaccessible for e.g. Eastern Europe and then the market area is of great importance and that Iceland is involved, as we have been tracking and I've traced a speech. We are of great importance to the European Union in this common market. Today, there is a strong hope that the European Union will increase efficiency in distribution and payment security and strengthen its competitiveness as well as competitive markets. [[The president calls.]] I see time is moving fast. I have just begun my meditation and speech, Mr. President, so I have to ask to be reassigned and then continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u122	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It has been discussed in previous articles on the likely effects on electrical prices through the induction of the energy package and is now improving and quoting an article on the Science site. Some of the supporters of this case, the government's supporters, e.g. Yeah. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir and Vilhjálmur Árnason have written articles in the Morning newspaper that explain their stand and support their stand. by reducing energy prices. It's natural that these things are really bad. Councilmen should not participate in the discussion here, to form on the basis of information such as the following. A senator was referring to and, in fact, a variety of information. In the past, a senator has quoted the discussion. Other factors such as this incident. Councilmen have quoted in their own articles, which are actually very similar, too much of the same procedure, as previously stated in ancient literature, are factors such as consumer protection. Discussions about it have not revealed that expecting them in that area is a significant success. We live in a lower power prices than what happens and in general, we walk in Europe. We may not have the lowest price, that is true, but we must assume that the price here will increase in harmony with what happens and works. I want to ask you why. A senator would agree that it is very unfortunate not to handle this more discussion because an increase in electrical prices is, of course, the key to the matter, the most important thing for a home and a business. One can see that it would result in an increase in the index, the weight of debt, and the weight of loans, such as. The mortgage. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u123	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists, taking his heart into consideration that there will be an electrical price here for home and business in the country to increase during the induction of this directive. We only see what's happened in those waters, and I've previously traced the increase of electricity prices to homes. The so-called special contracts were e.g. Simply forbidden by energy directive one. They were home in so - called cold areas. It was a business that used energy at night, as an example from bakers. So this has had many effects. In fact, it is reprehensible how some people have a bad attitude. Councilmen and supporters of these organizations have misled the discussion. Hv. A senator witnessed, for example. in newspaper articles written by members of Congress, I saw, for example. A newspaper article after what? Haraldsdóttir That's Bryndís, because she's talking about increasing consumer protection, etc. and a lower electrical price. But that's not true. It is not true that electricity prices have fallen to domestics and enterprises in the country by creating a energy package one and two. They must be insisted on what to do. Councilmen saying they're right. How this propaganda has been spread in many lands is reprehensible. You're right. A senator mentioned, you can see it, for example. Only on Internet services, it's always the same text, but different names under the text that are being discussed with the energy package. This is a form of propaganda to support him. [[The president calls.]] It's a good thing, isn't it? A senator, how has the discussion been conducted, and especially when it comes to electrical power prices for homes and companies?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u124	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. We will discuss this without satisfying answers to many questions. We've talked about something in advance. We've talked about a relationship with the fourth energy package. We've discussed this in the context of lessons from Norway, including those from Norway. in view of coming judgment in September One factor that has not been mentioned much is the circumstances that could arise in the future. What if, in time, a technology that, in an environmental way, can produce the tides is a natural opportunity here? It might well be that later generations would appreciate it, so they wanted Iceland to become an electronic manufacturer and they sold electricity for electrical cables to go abroad. Well, maybe. A senator agreed that the discussion is imperfect in this regard? For example, this factor has nothing to do with history.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u125	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator joins him in saying that there are many things missing in this discussion and that it is vital that all of these factors be on the surface when we discuss such a vital matter. I agree with what. A senator may well find it useful for Iceland in the future to sell electricity through a cable. But then I strongly point out that we should do so on our terms. We are not meant to be in charge of the European Union's price and the amount of energy we sell. It's totally absurd that politicians would suggest that they do so. We're supposed to do this on our own terms, and it's the most popular thing for society. So I'll just come back to it for a second. A senator correctly mentioned the wrong procedure carried out by the executives and the members of this case and the implementation of the directive. It's kind of been turned around. We are being accused of being misjudgled and misunderstood, while we see it in black, white, we have already shown it by evidence, that the hearing of the executives and those who are in the following cases is wrong when it comes to electrical prices for homes and companies in the country. That is most reprehensible because this is the one that, of course, is the most important thing to the public and what he is most concerned about in this matter, i.e. Does my power bill raise? That is what people are primarily thinking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u126	President. I thank the senator for his excellent speech. I'd like to ask him. Today, many or some followers of this matter have often spoken down to those who are concerned about the matter, even suggesting that these are some of the old men and people of the old school, etc. I'm sorry if the person is applying it to the entire classes like bakers and veggie producers. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator whether he has knowledge and an understanding of why, for example, there is no question that he is not aware of the facts. Vegetarian farmers, who are powerful users of electrical energy, resist the induction of the third energy package? Is that possible? Because their experience in implementing the European Union energy policy, which we should never have started, is that it has led to their rising electricity prices and they fear it will continue to rise? Then you begin to wonder, " Is the concern of these good people, women, and men, who produce vegetables and flowers for Iceland? ' If we go so far as to share the sovereignty, divide the energy with the European Union, share the management with it, the price, the amount, etc., as the senator mentioned, we may also be sharing with others the leadership we have had here to attract and promote the working life. There are whole species like this. from vegetables that are not brought in because their quality is so high in Iceland despite high costs. Then people prefer it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u127	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I have to say, of course, and you're absolutely right about what you're doing. A senator, should look to the experience of these energy bags, a energy package one and a energy package two, as we start to discuss a pack of three. That's what matters to us, whether this has been for our good. We have shown a number of examples that are not. The conversion of energy companies was the first step. The result? Let's look at the Southnesy. There was and there is a large enterprise in the energy industry, which was formerly known as theatre of Southernnes, now known as HD Energy and HD Plant. The energy industry has sold it to private people. The HS hosts have sold 34% of the portion, which is a distribution firm. Privates have entered this company, which the public has been very at odds with. The people of the South are very at odds with this. Company leaders, the independent party at the time, promised that the company would not be sold, only part of it. In 2007 they sell a part of the company and tell the public that they do not stand to sell the whole item, that it will remain owned by the public or the people. In 2009, just two years later, they sell the whole item. There is a foreign person from Canada who buys it. Of course, the steps may scare them. There we have a crystal clear example of the bad experience of those energy bags. Then there is a natural rise in electrical prices for homes and businesses. Like what? A senator rightly named the gardening industry has suffered setbacks as a result of this, the bakers, and so on. The experience of the energy bags should be watched when it comes to installing a pack of three energy. It's a bad experience, and that's why we shouldn't bring in this energy package. [[The president calls.]] It's simple.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u128	President. That was exactly what I needed before, gardening. I was trying to remember the whole vow and remember vegetables, but, of course, it was supposed to be gardening. Sometimes things don't work out when you're in a speech chair. I'd like to take this opportunity if we're discussing the energy issues and asking why. Senator: Am I right to think that last night Smokeytown has given up the premium on the infrastructure of this service business? Now we see that the private people will have or will want to own them. Actually, there is one more question I'd like to ask. The senator. Right here it was noted that energy policy is being produced for Iceland. Are we not beginning with the wrong end by implementing EU energy policy before we are ready for our own energy policy? Which will be adjusted to what? Is it not likely that we will need to adapt to the European policy?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u129	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for pointing out that it was only yesterday at a town meeting in Smokeynestown as Smokeynestown, i.e. The more part, decided to drop from premiums at 15% of HS hosts that our private partner is now selling. Is it proper to state that the Central Party representative opposed the proposal and did not carry the rest of the material and was the only one who voted against it. Because of what? One senator gave the example of this company's 34% share today in HS hosts, bought that item five years ago in 3 billion, and now intends to sell 15% of its 34% share in 3 billion. In five years, the private partner has gained 106%. You can see that there's much to learn about getting into the energy sector, and no wonder these people are getting up on their hind legs and protesting the Middle Party case. [[The president calls.]] They fear that this energy directive will not be realized, and their plans will fail. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u130	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. He went a lot over the story, wondering the consequences of the induction of an energy package alone. I'd like to ask if he could insert the first energy package in relation to the activities of the South American thermal system, what happened before, and what happened after. It's one thing. I made a special note of the fact that with a pack of energy, special contracts were forbidden, which would benefit many, but apparently cut off. I want to agree with what. A senator when he speaks of the need for us to do these things on our terms and especially the repairing of a cable. It is claimed that in a pack of three energy sources a lot of consumer protection, but when you look at the thought of a pack of energy one, consumer protection was definitely not being considered when it was forbidden to make these special contracts, if I understand. A senator is correct. Since the matter is so vague, it would be a great idea if we could just get a survey among the people about what the situation is, whether people in general are involved or opposed. I'm just saying that people may be more opposed, since I believe our discussion has been to inform the public. But I especially want to start with this part of the story: Who led the induction of an energy package alone, especially with regard to special contracts made?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u131	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. This is an important question and a very important entry into this discussion. We only come into the past what the consequences of the energy package one and a two energy package have been. Hv. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson came in before if it wasn't normal to examine the experience of that induction now that we start taking the big step of installing a pack of energy number three. There's a pack of four around the corner waiting for you. We are gradually taking steps to become a perfect member of the European Union's joint market of electricity, and thus the European Union's governance of that category is under way. It is a huge step being taken, in national sovereignty, in energy efficiency, and in all the future. Of course you should look into the experience. So I came into the Southnes in a short time, what happened there was that this fine company, the Southnesian heat system, was divided into the European Union's claim on two aspects, energy processing and the distribution and sale, i.e. HD Energy and HS are doing it now. It opens the way for a private person to come in, and there are mixed politicians, Southnes countryside, who, in the majority of the independence forces in a Smokey town, make it a decision to sell in this company on the contrary to a promise that it would not be done. It was, for example. When all the Southnes'heat system was sold and they were concerned about the public system that nothing would be sold and why it was important that the distribution system be owned by the public. The result? Yes, it was sold in the distribution system as far as the law allowed. [[The president calls.]] You see that there is nothing that politicians have said in this regard, so I'm afraid, President, that the same thing will happen now, that it will not be fulfilled when they say there will be no sea cable. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u132	The president reminds the speakers to give a talk class. He responds to an apology very well, but he also points out that he has done much more often, but I think that is a good way to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u133	V.E.G. President. It's a good way to look at it. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson's son. That's when I'm to the next place in my mind. It was required to switch this enterprise into production and distribution. Is this possible what happens now when we think of land induction and landnets? We've heard that there's an idea that this is the right time to sell even land induction. I'm asking why. A senator has some opinion about this, and as to the term consumer protection that has been climbed, there is so much consumer protection in implementing a pack of three. Meanwhile, we won't be able to see a pack of four energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u134	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. It is the subject of a full assembly meeting to discuss the so - called consumer protection that would follow these energy bags. Actually, there's been something else. I mention, for example, that the Neighbour Society requested for its clients that the energy companies offer them an electrical purchase, and the result was that there was a fall of 0.65%. There was one party who sent in an invitation. It was concluded by the Netothic Association that they would not accept the offer. This is exactly what's in this consumer protection, there's no discount. So it won't take to change the power trade. This is not stated in the discussion. No one's talking about this. I don't think those in the board who've claimed there's such a lot of consumer protection have an idea that it's nothing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u135	V.E.G. President. Sometimes I've wondered if consumer protection is in that people can change companies and everyone has the same amount of credit for what they're offering, if I can say so. We've had a conversation with some of the government's members, and they've all been in the process of creating a pack of three. I have somehow come to the point where I believe that members of Congress are opposed to the majority of the nation. I know that a survey was not published that supports my claim. I believe there is at least a reason for the people to discuss this matter here. I find it remarkable how the government groups have changed their minds, i.e. Councilmen of the clans. If we talk about the Independence Party, it was published in the leading election of 2017, with the permission of a president: The suicide party rejects further expeditors of the European Union's dominion over the European Union's energy market. So I'd like to argue that the voters expected the band to live up to their emphasis, but it doesn't seem to be right now. If we go over what the forward party chose to put first, with the permission of a president: The mission group rejects any teleportation ideas on the transcontinental exchange of electrical energy. This is surprising, since we've heard the recent news that Atlantic SuperConction claims that we have funds to place this cable. I've looked at it as if they were laying sea cables in Iceland. That's what I'm saying, then, that it's not our custody. But I'd like us to put a string out of Iceland which would be our initiative, on the grounds of us. That's what I'm saying, I think senators have changed their mind. If we cross to the left green, they'll be particularly against an election cable. Left greens say that they want to risk energy sales for the big industry to prevent more of their power needs to rise. This is so remarkable because there was only one report from the natureists. Everyone seems silent, and no one says anything about how this could affect nature. It is special when left green is present. They have certainly changed their minds. However, they are foreordained winds. There is somehow a complete void within the board of directors on this matter. I'm of the opinion that the government groups have only gone against what they said before elections, and then they're supposed to put this pack of energy through the council in a very short time. It reminds me of the putting of personal protection during the last assembly. It took 13 days. This was a fundamental change in personal protection for the entire population. There were many reviews, and we got a lot of scholars before the committee, the General and Education Committee, who spoke against it and said we were even handing over a government that wasn't in the spirit of what we wanted to represent. We are being picked up in all ways gradually to become part of the European Union. I'm afraid we're going that way, and I don't think that's good enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u136	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For an excellent speech, Árnadóttir Kolmblnad of the Year's Daughter. She even talked about it. what seems to be the basis for this matter's support by individual members, members of Congress, or members of Congress. It reveals a number of odd things. We have noted that the members of the Independence Party, referred to, have written articles in the Morning newspaper, and have claimed their merits without rationalizing it, consumer protection without even arguing it, an equality without even specifying what it is or what the benefits are. We see that silence in the left green is loud about the nature protection factor in the case. Of course, we can also see that the two groups that are fully involved in the European Union as policy, cohesion, and restoration do not contradict anyone here and accept the matter unseen. [[The president calls.]] Here we go. A senator is surprised to learn that there is a way to prepare and prevent all obstacles to the European Union from being involved by the groups that make up the greater part of the Council? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u137	V.E.G. President. I kind of feel like it's in the middle of nowhere. It comes in a few doses, so I'll tell you what. A senator, e.g. Personal Protection of the Last Parliament - this is my second assembly here. Then there's this. What's interesting about this is that important matters always seem to come into the council at the end, whenever it's time for a intermission, and then they say we have to hurry so much to finish it. This may be because it is very comfortable for the government. What's strange about this, though, is that we have three categories that all of us claim to be against the EU, but we're still on a rougher route there, like the dog. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Isafas has put it so neat. It's amazing that nature protection should not be given any publicity here, just the fact that there's only one reference from natureists in one of the thick narratives that came along. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u138	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I'd just like to examine her attitude about what has been happening and that is that there seems to be a great effort on the part of some to desecrate the spoken language of our Middle Class in this discussion. They have endeavored to minimize the discussion. They call it a natural filibuster. For my sake, this may be called a filamentist, but it does not satisfy the concept of being a meaningless debate because it has been a perplexity, it has been an analyst, and many new aspects have been developed. But I have found it very strange to be uninterrupted on the part of some, not everyone, that this discussion involves repetition, some convergence, and some such indistinguishable expression on a discussion that is relevant to an important aspect of the nation of Iceland. I ask, " Why is it that these senators cannot participate in this discussion? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u139	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. How easy it is for a person who disagrees with the fact that the matter should be discussed with him to insist that we are full of repetition! For my part, I wouldn't have understood all the wires that lie if we hadn't discussed it. That's what I may have missed the most in the Person Protection Department of the Last Parliament, i.e. To not get a chance to go to the depth, as I believe we do here. I am convinced that we have brought people to the fore what is involved in this matter of ours by maintaining a more objective discussion during the council. I'm telling you, it's what's happened here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u140	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For her speech, I'm Árnadóttir Kolmblena the Year's Daughter. I took note that she spoke of a poll that has not been published officially, but it has been reported that half of the nation is opposed to the approval of the General Assembly of bringing in the third energy package. If it is true, and this is a simple question, is there not enough evidence to stop the matter and consider it better and then on the way, if a pause is taken, to inform the people of what it is so that the nation is informed about what we are talking about here at a council but simply believe it or not believe what is spoken of without being informed about it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u141	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It's no surprise to me that there are differences in viewpoints in this matter, but I didn't quite know that there was such a difference. Half the nation is against a pack of three energy if I understand a word. A senator's right. In this way, I believe we have a solid basis for continuing this discussion because new and new things are coming out. I'd like to agree here that the energy policy for Iceland should have priority to try on, it could be a foundation, what EU energy policy would like to do, if I can say so, that we're first on our terms and then we're using other policies, but it looks like we're supposed to go straight the other way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u142	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. So a little bird here on the sideline whispered that there had even been 62% in this poll that opposed the introduction of the package. I also heard in the senator's speech that people are more conscious of what the senator criticized in his speech, i.e. that we were often ensuing something and accepting here at the council that we could not have talked much about or that we could get into. It included the identity protection issue, which was released last year, and many institutions and businesses criticized or were not prepared to take over. They had to do a lot of trash in their companies to accept it, that is one of many. Then I'll ask again, " Isn't this just the big thing that we stop here and think about it better? ' There's no hurry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u143	V.E.G. President. You're right. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson says. About the personal protection case, because I only went through it, we received many comments that were rather negative. It was mainly about the cost of enforcing the personal protection laws. In particular, I remember that rural society felt that it was not possible for them to live up to the cost. The second point was the massive penalty of guilt. This is all very familiar because if we don't do the European Union's will, or ACER in this case, we can use huge fines as I read the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u144	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the talk and the depth of the discussion. Now this discussion of the third energy package has lasted 140 hours in Iceland. That same discussion lasted four and a half hours in Norway. I watched that discussion on March 22, Norway, four and a half hours ago. So it took the Norwegian Parliament four and a half hours to go through the matter. We're taking 140 hours to get through this. I'll think about the depth. The main thing that has become new in our discussion now for the last three and a half hours or so, I think it's that the person here is pointing a sharp blow. The members of the Central Party are supposed to be working on energy policy for Iceland. There's been many occurrences and even ... fromwhat. A senator giving a talk earlier that it was necessary to work such a course, suggesting that there is no such work going on. I've heard that in previous talks a dozen times. I feel serious when such false stories are up and misleading the discussion. There's been a whole year of discussions about this. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm talking about. So a senator now knows that the long - term energy policy for the Icelandic nation is being developed?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u145	President wants less of it. Councilmen are to respect the deadline. It's four years. The members of Parliament have requested to give an answer to those who are only one minute to be arranged.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u146	V.E.G. President. That's right, we've taken time to discuss this matter. I'm gonna start with that as a dog. The senator concluded. We're working on energy policy. We are well aware of that. On the other hand, it would be very good to find a conclusion for that job. When available, we can try to determine whether it is appropriate for us to implement EU energy policy. That's the kind of thing I'd love to win things It's all in Norway. They spent four and a half hours in that discussion. What's happening? It's due to take place in Norway for a administrative court to see if the induction was properly carried out in Norway. And we're going to do exactly as wrong as they did in Norway. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u147	Madam President. We're working on energy policy. There is one member of every board of directors, and with experts, this is a group of 15 people. That is why I used to feel very uncomfortable with the discussion. A senator repeatedly indicated that there was no such work going on or that it needed to be done or otherwise, knowing that a relative was related to him or her. The senator is on the committee and has been for a year. Hv. A senator knows exactly where I'm going. That's why I don't like it. When things are held in such a way, I feel that they are misinformed. I'd also like to inform you right at the end of this series of warnings that have been followed many times in this discussion. Hv. The members of a professional health committee should at least knowing that May 17th was gone. they made warnings in the paper on No. 791 and 792. [[The president calls.]] So it might have happened about 100, 120 hours ago in this discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u148	V.E.G. President. It would have been great if the representative of the professional committee had then participated in this discussion, the senator who spoke the last, why. paritaprevir And Trausti Friðbertsson. [[Top of the list, two agents.]] The other thing is, you're right next door. A senator says that I have a closely related family member on a future board on a energy policy in Iceland. I'm very closely aware of what's going on there. However, I'm saying that we don't have to rush so fast to generate a pack of three. I'd like to point it out again, first we have to finish our course for Iceland. Then let's try that course with what's supposed to run through here at a tremendous speed. And I ask, "Why is that done? "
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u149	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I found that interesting. One senator mentioned that she knew that a survey was made to determine what the people of the country think of this matter, but the survey that I find to be somewhat unusual had not yet been published. I'm asking why. A senator may ask, " Do I know why the results of this investigation have not been published? ' This reminds us that the labor movement has described its opposition to the induction of the energy package and to other members. For example, about 70% of those who sent a commission to the State Department were negative toward this matter. Watch your step. A senator might consider getting into this for a little bit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u150	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. The results of the poll have not been published. In fact, I have received vague reports that it was made and that the conclusion is that the nation is a little involved. We can then claim that by 140 hours, 90% of the people had a pack of three energy. But because we moved on, learned from experience, how we were treated with personal protection at the last council, we decided to take a closer look at this. At that time, quite a number of people sent in envelopes and opposed the Homological Protection Act, identified a fine, pointed to a burdensome cost for organizations and communities. They did not listen. Since we chose to listen now, we have talked for 140 hours.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u151	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. Interestingly, the results of this study are not being published. It is important to know where the nation is on this vital issue that will affect them throughout the future. But there is another factor, and this is the importance of the well - informed public. In my opinion, Mrs. President, there has been a great lack of enough publicity by the government. There are a number of opinions that need to be clarified. But most important questions need to be answered, such as. how this energy package works. In view of the experience we have with a energy pack one and two, it is perfectly normal for them, e.g. Large increases in house - to - house electricity were observed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u152	V.E.G. President. That's right. It's kind of remarkable that we're talking about consumer protection and, like, why. Birgir Þaðir Þórarinsson spoke in a previous answer, there are unions, ASI, VR, and even more in this country, against the induction. This is probably because these parties predict that energy prices will rise. They agree with the opinion of the unions of Norway, which was against a three - pack energy package in that country. It is also remarkable that 70% of the reports were negative about the induction of a pack of three energy and that they do not listen. Nor is this poll being published. Somehow it's going the same way. The case is just to run out of speed and safely.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u153	Madam President. I'd like to welcome a president to work, and I have to wait until the 50th speech to give further consideration to her speech that fell on the council several days ago, that's not what you're going to do when she's sitting on the President's chair. But it's good that the president kept a count of this, because I saw it in RúV earlier that it was 49. The speech I held in this case, and I'm naturally very grateful to all those who keep numbers on it, and especially to the state medium that costs 4,000 million of the public money a year, but I would have thought that instead of publishing such tables on the number, length, and number and number of answers, perhaps there would have been a plan for a member of the state media, which is RUVOhf. But what I was going to discuss in this 49th speech is that I would like to quote only one of the fine men who have been paying attention to the induction of a pack of three. There is a man who has experience with the introduction of a number one and two, in fact, was opposed and stands firm against these also because he has already seen evolution. It's an ex-whisper. A senator and a chief. Minister, Ögmundur Jónasson. He says, with President's permission, this is taken from his website: In this brief review, I would like to highlight the social grounds and warn against focusing on this particular package rather than on the road that the European Union proclaimed in the mid - 1990's on the market use of electricity. The name of the journey has always been clear, and the energy packages are called just a guard on this route, which will end up in a global European electrical system, which operates in a market under a central monitoring. The market for electricity and water has been unpopular in Europe, such as the privatization of basic services in general. So shocked have been the plan to cut the sausage into slices or packages, and it has been the same saying: This is no worse than the first. But it is the final goal that needs to be watched - the whole tour - that is a market area followed by the privatization of this sector. In turn, the market agreement is intended to ensure a share of the public with consumer protection and punishment if competitiveness is not met. In other words, all trust is placed in the market and in his enthusiasm. Those of us against this trend opposed an approved first and second energy package, and I find it even more logical to oppose the approved packages as well as those that follow. In time, we will lose as a community custody of the energy, resources and processing, and will direct the market's operations, end by speaking to the case on the part of the minister and on the board of directors' web. When it has been noted that the great promise of a reduction in energy prices has not been made to the previous packages, we are told by the government that the electricity price has not gone up, and other factors must be reduced by the coming competition! In the General Meeting, it has been said that external pressures on the force sector will result in becoming ◯hagreen, not according to foreign authority. This is the point. The foreign mandates go out into the markets of this sector, linking it with the laws of supply and demand. I believe the public's interests should be guaranteed through the possession but not through the market through the relevant surveillance agencies, i.e. those who are competitive and consumer protection. My name is for every social member of the generals to come in contact with all those who now wish to resist this disastrous trend. If those who previously supported the case feel that they are now heading for an unpredictable surprise, they should be welcomed. The market is building into the system an incentive: to activate, for the most part, for the most money. We still have most of our companies and institutions in the energy sector - where we are in a different area than Europe. However, it will not be long if this road cannot be stopped by all means - now that we have opportunity. That's what Ögmundur Jónasson says. former general and highest. Minister, for a recent entry on his website.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u154	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to catch the ball where he let it go when he was discussing the news coverage of the discussions that are going on around the so-called third energy pack. I remind you that this is a case involving a constitution, I remind you that this is a matter that involves important international relations, especially our relations with the European Union, the course of the European Economic Area. I'd like to remind you that this is under national energy resources and a matter of custody of them, whether we keep them or if we were giving them over to a considerable extent. It is described here in the opinion of the legal advisers of the government that foreign people will receive at least An indirect effect on the nation's organization, provision and use of the country's very important sources of energy. I'm asking why. A member of the U.S.R.'s responsibilities on these matters, especially because he mentioned that the State Radio accepts enormous sums of money on the budget. He named 5,000 million. It may be more than 5,000, let it go. But is this to be so that the reporting of this medium should be limited to details of the length and the number and the number of such information? Of course, it is very rash, Madam President, to review the arguments of those who support this matter. It's consumer protection, it's illogical. There's a decrease in watch, it's illogical and most likely wrong. Thirdly, there is equality. It doesn't even define what it means, illogical otherwise, saying it's to maintain an open, free society. We have presented a number of important principles that involve this matter, none of which can be discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u155	Madam President. I'm going to grab this and say, "It's perhaps even more surprising that the State Radio will be satisfied with these minutely facts about the number of discussions and the number of answers, and hours and minutes, when the TV is over. has a legal obligation to promote informed discussion on the subject at its height. That's why they're in the middle of nowhere. A senator pointed to, i.e. conflicting with the Constitution so that we are polite. It is an obligatory exercise of power, which, in the opinion of the most skilled experts, is undisputed. It's possible privatization, corporate replacements, etc. further into the future. Except for what has been presented in the first days of this discussion, i.e. Before we cleaned up the mess, and it was this statement: This package doesn't matter! It doesn't matter that much. And then you say, " Wait, what's the rush of bringing in something that doesn't matter if it doesn't really matter? ' But it's just that those who make this case a relief here at the Generals have made a circle of reasoning. This is where a person chooses a candidate to quote in support of his case, which was handled by the committee. At the end of the State Department, not everyone was allowed to come in there to give a opinion because it was a handshake on the committee. All of this reveals that the government's obligation should be to explain this matter properly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u156	President. Thank you. A senator resists. I ran over it in the least of my matters that those members of the council who have handled this matter in public have, in fact, not been able to account adequately why they support this matter. But I would like to try to be helpful to those who would want to discuss this matter in a poetic way in the media, including the media. The national radio. There is one important factor in this matter, and it is that this agent has not been found and is lost. On the one hand, this issue has not been discussed with the four available energy package. Third, we have a judgment hearing in Norway that raises a question similar to this one, i.e. about the possible conflict with the Norwegian constitution. It is the question of whether this foreign company could bring about a marvelous damage, as they seem to consider legal advisers of the government and Arnar Þór Jónsson's district judge.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u157	Madam President. The conference's review of this matter in Norway will be held in a second speech, and I will give them a talk that was given here this week. Of course, when as many and as respected sources of opinion are warned, there is reason to listen. I think I've said this before in this discussion. Although only one lawyer would have said that this is a violation of the constitution, that it was the greatest power vested in us, I would have thought that men should have listened to and listened to it. But when more than two and more than four appear, you don't understand - you don't understand - why people do so much stress in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u158	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. It was very interesting what was reported from Ögmundur, son of Jónasson, former General and Minister, who has been an active fighter against the induction of energy directives number three from the European Union. During the implementation of energy directives one and two that took effect with new electricity laws 2003, the left-green and Ogmundur Jónasson, who was as we know the general and minister of the left-green, were opposed and remained very stable. They gave very many people good talks in the subjects I have been studying, including good talks for presidents and debates. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, everyone in the same direction, said that it would be very dangerous for Icelanders to take part in the market of electricity in a way that the directives fueled. Our power market would be very different from our situation in the European Union. This left green painting was very trustworthy and may be proud to have voted against a energy package one and two. So I'm amazed that they are now supplied with a pack of three energy and have, in fact, presented no evidence of it. What I wanted to ask you. A member of the council, because he quoted Aggmund, the son of Jónasson, is: Have a good reason. A senator has any idea of what causes this conversion of the left green that has been described here? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u159	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. The change in left green, as thorough as they are, is blurred. Whatever the case, however, there is good reason to keep them in good repair. It has to be one of the things people take away from these discussions, this change in left greens, which, all of a sudden, has become a leading force in the market of Iceland's energy resources. That's a fact that didn't show up in its campaign for the last election. It is proper to keep it into the future, whatever the case, and whatever happens to it, and to tell people that this transition was made, especially those who chose left greens, some of whom have been in contact with us in the Middle Ages and that we were encouraged to stand in the position of this matter. There must be some moment, possibly before the next election, when people will be demanded of their voters who chose them in their last elections, candidates in the left green. They must be asked: What led to this U-turn from the basic idea of the sect's ability to protect nature and to protect public property from the greed of wealth and national power? They don't want to answer us, and they don't have to do it any more than they want, but at some point, people will be called upon to answer, and then they will have to tell the truth.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u160	Madam President. Thank you. Senator. Of course, this will be done in the next election. I think that's pretty clear. But what also highlights is that they avoid all discussions in the Assembly Hall. You would have thought it normal for those who are following the case now but were not when the implementation of energy directives one and two were here for a discussion here at the Senate Hall to discuss with us who are opposed to this introduction and have reasoned with them why it is normal to accept this directive now. Because this is one step at a time. It's a pack of energy one, two, three, four, five, and it's all headed to the same level: General market area. You would have thought that a team like left green was not particularly concerned about markets and not about electricity at all. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But there it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u161	Madam President. Yes, this may be the turn of events that you most find most difficult to understand. We have naturally talked about the communities wanting to enter the European Union's cold arms and agree on this matter, at least some of them, before they saw how it was done. That's understandable because it's their political opinion, the only one. But that left green is taking this U-turn and becoming the flag-bearing markets of Iceland's energy resources - that's something I have to admit, huh? Senator, I don't quite understand. I haven't had an explanation for that. No one has come from the left green in this discussion to explain it to us and tell us what it is that causes. There's got to be some kind of giltism in this matter that makes men change their mind so completely, but we haven't heard about it, let alone their voters, who might now have an explanation more than we do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u162	Madam President. I'd like to ask the senator about the office of authority, the general manager, if he would agree to change the constitution that way, and that can be done without completing the constitution, and always have this uncertainty as to whether we're breaking a constitution or not. We members of Congress have sworn oaths to keep the Constitution so that if they intend to vote with some of the EEA's opinion cases, the senator won't have to be unsure about it. That's what I'm talking about. A senator is in favor of changing the Constitution so that he could maintain a clean conscience as well as vote on matters, EEA? Or does he want to keep the Constitution the way it is and not vote for these EEA terms and perhaps move us out of cooperation? Is he willing to move us farther away from our partnership, that we would begin to say in other cases: No, we're not going to do this, that's official, we can't do this? Where is he willing to take this, on the one hand, to expand a constitution, to waive a power to be in the inner market, or to go the other way, to move us out of the EEA community service and perhaps all the way to the end? It's important to get this part straight. For example, in this regard there is a wide range of interests that exist between humans, such as those in the fishing field. Even if we're in the EEA, they don't have the authority over the sea resources. But once fish are caught, they can move within the European Economic Area, which is exactly why the seafood companies are in favor of this and the EEA community. [[The president calls.]] Where's the senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u163	Madam President. Thank you. A senator very much opposed, and I thank him for having been at the discussion today. The person here is a member of the EEA team. The EEA Convention has proved to be very good for us in the years it has been in effect and has evolved naturally. The energy wasn't in it first, and other factors weren't in it first and then came in later on, as shown. In the excellent comments of Jón Baldvin, son of Hannibalsson, on this matter. I, however, rely on the EEA deal, and I trust the deal. I trust that, for example. that if the counsel of the best men were taken and this package was rejected and sent on the basis of the 102nd par. The EEA Convention for the Joint EEA Committee, I believe that there he would receive legal treatment that would be practical for both sides and thereafter can be introduced into Iceland using legal warnings. As to the Constitution, I personally feel that the constitution we have been able to find was just a thank you from 1944. We have a recent example from Norway, where a constitution is incorporated where a form of power is written, if we can put it that way. Norwegians recently entered this pack of energy number three, which is a lawsuit because it is a lawsuit in Norway because it is said: "We doubt that this has passed the Norwegian constitution despite the expeditation that we are missing or are not here. And this case is going to the court of government in Norway on September 23, and it is also the case. one of the reasons why only we thought it would be more beneficial to keep this matter until autumn.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u164	President. If I understand why. He wants to be a member of the EEA community, continue to be there. But does he want to authorize a change in the constitution so that we do not have this uncertainty, or does he want to keep the constitution as it is in this regard? It is clear what people say, and it has been repeated that we are going further and further into this common internal market with all kinds of influences, i.e. It has to harmonize, otherwise it's not that inner market. If we are to be a part of it, we must conform ourselves to the product and service being performed here. Or does the senator think that we can just cut ourselves completely out of a energy factor because energy is a product? The resource that makes Iceland's energy is still under the control of Icelanders. On the other hand, if the power is made, it can be moved by a cable. The same thing with the fishing resource, it's on the custody of Icelanders, but the fish caught can be sold in the common market, which is exactly what the seafood companies do not want to lose at all. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Does the senator understand this comparison, and where does he say whether the Constitution can be changed to a greater power capacity? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u165	President wants less of it. The members of Congress are to respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-06-05-117.u166	Madam President. Thanks again for the inquiry. I thought why. A senator must be describing, what to say, such a forced process. Because we are involved in this cooperation, we are compelled to bring our constitution to Europe's laws. That's where I don't agree. Actually, I think it's like the example I mentioned earlier from Norway, where they have expedients, that at least it didn't work for them. So I ask, " How far do we have to go so that we can adapt our laws and laws to the types we receive from Europe? ' The point is, people have been saying that for a very long time, we've completed the constitution before, e.g. with the financial section of my time, which I remember to agree with, and it's not particularly proud of. These are issues that I think we need to be very careful with. We don't change the constitution every day. We think about it for a long time, just as it has over us now. So I want to be very careful with this.
