ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u1	Borist has received a letter from the chairman of the Central Party Parliament to the 4th. Witchest. "Bergþór Ólason, be absent soon in public affairs. So today, at the General Assembly, a deputy of the 1st Class Art, Jón Þór Þorvaldsson, is taking his place. He has previously taken his place at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u2	Borist has a letter from the financial and economic secretary asking for every appointment to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. Thirty-four3 on fiscal taxes, from the Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u3	To answer, Prime Minister, Education and Culture Minister, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Environmental and Resource Ministers and Foreign Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u4	A respectable president. V.E.G. The minister of foreign affairs last week had a meeting with his colleague, Mr. Sergey Lavrof, Russian foreign minister. This meeting was held in Moscow. Even there was a number of them. discussed the Russian embassies with certain Western food products, including almost all marine products from Iceland. The Russians imposed this embargo as an answer to Western trade barriers, following a campaign in Ukraine and the inns of Crimea, Russia. Sales of our seafood products to Russia completely collapsed following this. In one night, a foreign minister, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, and the government of the modern - day forwarding class and an independent group, succeeded in destroying successful business relationships that gave us a total of 34 billion dollars. in 2014. Last year, the total transport to Russia was reported to be 4 billion, and mainly in the form of technology for Russian fishing, since the Russians have used this commercial war to build their own way in order to get enough of seafood in the future. The crowd of people have always opposed such commercial wars with Russia, realizing that the burden of our Icelanders for this has been very difficult and relatively much greater than that of other Western nations. The signing of the U.S. Secretary of State and Russia last week gives rise to the expectation that the situation will soon end. I'll get it up here, you respectable President, to pray to the highest degree. Secretary of State to briefly inform the council of how he values the situation of this pointless business war at the end of the Moscow Summit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u5	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. However, as a result of this case, I would like to say that the reason we took part in these action, which is not directed against the Russian public, but, rather, to certain individuals, is very simple. It is that we Icelanders have always been among the nations that highlight the international law. You should not have to explain why we do this because we depend on international law. We are a small nation, and if we were to build an environment in which to be unable to rely on laws and covenants in the international environment, we would be in serious trouble. If we break out this order and do not support the Western nations or the nations that put this emphasis on it, it would be a huge change in Icelandic foreign policy and would very soon harm our interests. On the other hand, it is true, like the oar. One senator noted that the commercial pressure the Russians imposed on Western nations was particularly against us. On top of this, getting licenses for various foods has also been a problem, getting through the Food Monitoring in Russia. This is something I spoke to my colleague at a very good meeting. I've been working on trying to sort these matters out, and I've had nothing to say on my mind that Russian counter measures don't seem fair to me. What will come out of it remains to be seen. I'll just keep working on our business as well as on the rest of us. [[The president calls.]] I can't promise anything at this point, but I'm sure things haven't gotten worse at this meeting I had with my colleague.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u6	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I understand exactly what he means, he's talking about us being a nation among the nations, and we don't want another country to be invaded, another country, and taking it as it was done there. But the fact is, it actually worked like a twin in many Western countries who were setting up this Russian embellishment when they were about to take full advantage of their services, the most important thing in the Russians, to buy gas, and I don't know what or what. You would feel a little shot over the target if there should have been something to mark the actions being performed. But that was, in fact, not the question, but rather this, and perhaps it has overlooked a minister, whether we can see that something is only moving around and publishing in our dealings with the Russians in regard to our business and interests there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u7	A respectable president. Since this may be the case with the twin, the Russians'decision is to set up this prerogative, which brings us down badly, but Western countries continue their trade with Russia, and so have we. Because of what? A senator asks if there is something to publish. We have stressed the importance of supporting Icelandic exports in foreign service, and we will continue to do so, including some of them. ... witha change in U.S.A. law. You could say that was just in the light. Our export to Russia has been increasing, and business has been building, and so has this. in the areas of our main parish, in the field of high - tech technology. Also, Icelandic people have invested in Russia, e.g. In a scurry factory, and even though there is no export from Iceland to Russia, we are happy to be selling our quality food box. There was a big commission. We've formed, as I mentioned, the Russian-American Council of Business, representatives of 20 companies. [[The president calls.]] It will be exciting to watch both in the present and in the future how they will live on this great and important market.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u8	Mr. President. Today, an application deadline for a radio manager who is sometimes called our all, but today, RUSV is not ours because we are not allowed to know who is reaching out for this job. The question is, What is the cause? It's been reported that this has been a RIV violation of information law, but I don't believe it to the highest level. Ministers want to be subject to the violation of the law. This is only since the last week, which published a state reexamination report showing that the Kingdom News had been breaking the law by not forming partners on competitive business. The question, then, is it to become a Norwegian or a normal development that violates law? Will a minister, in effect, leave it unafraid? The question is also simply about this: Do Ministers feel right that the general public does not know who apply for a job in a public service which is advertising a very important job in our society and then may be able to shape their view of it? While it is in the hands of others, the general public may be able to form an opinion about it, if he wishes, who should attack until the leadership. I'd really like to hear a minister's answers to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u9	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a very useful question and a question that many ask themselves. The formal field of the situation is with the RuV government. However, as a minister of the media in the country, I have sent a letter to RUV, asking for explanations on how it works that the list does not have complete transparency. I think it's very natural, especially since the people in the country are very warm to RUS, and I think that there should be a full transparency in this process. On November 28, I sent a letter to the director of the tract asking for and repeatedly asking for explanations, waiting for further explanation, and that subject is in progress. But I'd also like to state it, a respectable president, that the formal case of the matter is with the board. Rather, we might ask ourselves: " Are we cool with the way these things are done? If not, it's our job to change the law. I welcome the General Accounting Report and its strictness and plan to follow along with the measures appropriate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u10	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer, and rejoice in it. In fact, I'm concerned that someone who applied for the ministry may now have already been given the opportunity to indicate that their names will not be mentioned. But now the Minister tells me that the will that I am very pleased is clear in these matters, and that the names will be printed. This may lead some to retract their names, all right. But I appreciate this, and it's my word for the Minister to follow this because today the deadline is running out. However, in view of a report by the State Review Office, we hope that we will have an opportunity to discuss it here in the Hall of Congress and then be able to apply it more fully. There are a number of interesting and interesting factors that can be considered. But again: I welcome this answer and thank the minister for it, and I look forward to discussing the report on RUSH with her in a better void.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u11	A respectable president. As shown in my answer, the formality of the case with the government of the U.S.A. However, I think it's extremely important that the government of RUV explain their case, why they think it's best to do things like this. I'm also asking, is there any legal uncertainty about the matter? There's only a lot of information in the U.S. law and I just think it's very important, and I agree with it. A senator, that these matters are clear, especially regarding candidates, that they are fully transparent. I assume that the management board of RUSV and directors will explain this situation right now at the next few hours, and I will stress it deeply.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u12	A respectable president. I just want to have a place to talk to. Secretary of education on her bill on the anticipated academic education fund. I'm sure I'm concerned with the plans for interest, and in the United States we'll agree to students' demand for interest and not just us, but also BHM, ASI, and the team members of the university, where the granary and verbal headmasters are sitting at the university level. Under difficult economic conditions, high interest levels can have a significant impact on the payment load and under such circumstances, when, for example, there is no need for financial support. Instead, the government should encourage people to pursue further studies. It does not take much for a student to eat up the proceeds from a folding headstay. This does not take many years back in time to see that today's economic situation does not reflect the economic situation in Iceland in general as it has been in recent decades and may become. A similar system as this is planned may work well abroad, but in Iceland we have a unstable currency. Therefore, in our opinion it is necessary to have a peak in interest of interest unless it is appropriate to adopt a new currency, which I don't think exists. According to one report, no comment on growth could be dealt with as the prerequisite for the failure of the loan system. So if you want to take up the interest market and put more money on the system, you need to change this bill into important issues. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers if she is willing to cooperate with the General and Education Committee to ensure that the interest of student loans is not completely out of control. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his inquiry and the interest he shows over the heads of education and the new Scholars' Education Fund. Now that we have considered a number of scenarios, whether the student is single, whether he has children, or what the situation is. He's almost no doubt getting better into the new system. First, it's because we've got 30% demolition on the loan head. It doesn't matter what the economy is at that point. Second, I'd like to mention that interest rates are the best interest rates in Iceland's GDP. We know that they can also lower as they can rise. If I knew exactly what the development would be and what the future would be, it would be quite fun to be a minister of education and culture in Iceland, but of course it's not. We are, however, creating a system that is much better than the old system. You owe much less because of 30% of the decline and the profity position available to Iceland's state fund today. Iceland's wealth has been paying off debt and strengthening its post continuously over the last ten years. Hence, the requirement for bearing fruit for the Kingdom has been beneficial, and students enjoy it. Their hearts will be much better in the new system, and I'm very pleased with what it's like to come out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u14	A respectable president. I'm not going to belittle the benefits of this bill, but I'm still concerned about these plans. The modern - day economic system is, in fact, only one thing we know about it. It is like the weather, there will always be new economics and unforeseeable consequences. That is why it is extremely important for me to have some assurance in this arrangement for students that interest will not run out of control. V.E.G. A minister turned his attention to the scenes and the motion picturemaking. Perhaps I'd like to hear a little more clearly about the groundwork that was proposed to this stage film and whether it had been viewed as sufficiently worse than it has been in recent years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u15	A respectable president. I'd like to mention some of the factors in which there is a radical difference between the education fund and the credit fund of Icelandic students. I'd like to mention that we give strength to children. The situation is, therefore, that the person owes twice as much in the new system as the old one. I understand why. A senator is concerned about economics, but they've been pretty good for Iceland's National Fund, including Because the economy has been good. There's a law in the bill where it says that when the prices are up to 4%, they're not safe in 9%, so there's a defender in the bill to deal with these concerns exactly, which I understand. However, students get into the new system much better than the old one. [[The president calls.]] I look forward to having more discussions with a global and educational committee to review these scenarios.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u16	A respectable president. As we here in this hall may well remember, elections were held in 2017 but at an unusual time, i.e. in the autumn months of the past, because the government work that preceded it exploded over the case of restoration. It had actually happened before, in 2016, i.e. The election election election time then held in the fall rather than in the spring as usual, and again because of the explosion of government harmony, then because of the Panama Documents. I come up here to ask the highest. Prime Minister whether or not elections will be held in the fall months of 2021, or whether the prime minister and government intend to vote at a reasonable time in the spring months of 2021.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u17	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for bringing this up. According to our rule law, the season ends at the end of October 2021. It's been four years since the election day, so that in itself it calmed down, but what I had planned to do, because no decision has been made to keep elections before, it was to request a meeting of all the presidents for the next session to discuss the timing of the election.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u18	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, but I still feel that this is rather low. We know it's up to us to change the election. We want to have a very good warning about it, and I think it's really important to us, both the public but also us who sit at the council, to know how long it's time for elections, and then after events, how short we've seen to change the terms of elections. As we know, we have been counseled by international institutions to do so very well before elections. I think the next year's conversation about whether the election might be a little delayed in the ass if I should just describe my own opinion of it and at the top. In October 2021, the prime minister feels that he is focused on being there, as it were, on government financial matters, financial arrangements, and all that needs to be considered that when a new government is formed, it is rather unsatisfactory. [[The president calls.]] It doesn't pay for us to have it like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u19	Mr. President. Hv. A senator may not be able to hear exactly what I said; she talks about the next fall. I said that at the end of this council, the presidents would classify a conversation. I think it's a good thing, if you don't mind me saying it here. I know the best thing about people is that they don't only have to talk about election law, we're also having a possible change in the constitution that will need a time here at the council, so I'll just mention one example of a case that is generally accepted at the end of the term. That is why I had planned to make a meeting at the end of this council winter, so I say it here for the third time, in order to have a conversation with the officers about the date of the election. And in itself, it's just a natural process.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u20	Mr. President. I was originally going to direct the inquiry to a minister other than the words of the Supreme Court. The minister of education and cultural culture and the answer to the recruitment process, I was caught up in the attention of a new radio director. It's clear to me that there's a lot of responsibility for operating a kraV ohf. THERE is a government under which we know well, including the one we know well. by the representatives of all political parties here. I didn't hear any better than that. A minister was going to call the administration to him to scold her for the way she felt her independence in the management of the media by demanding that the management change her planned recruitment system. The management board, however, follows the advice of a professional, as clearly stated in the government's logical support of this arrangement, not to publish the candidate's name list. I am one of those who fully agree with the management board in this regard and have been repeatedly referred to in the context of the recruitment process of public agencies, including Just by the above-mentioned professionals, the recruiters who specialize in staff recruitments, that the quality of applications will be inferior in the presence of renovations; for all of us who have worked in a general labour market, know that no one informs their employer beforehand that he or she is looking for another job, let alone an advertisement in the magazines that the person has applied for another job. It is very obvious that to get the best out of a potential candidate, it is important to let people enjoy anonymous names. Then the government must be confronted with a logical support of its choice in due time. [[The president calls.]] I think it's a good thing if I do. Minister's going to interrupt the board as she is preaching here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u21	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. The reason the minister here sent an inquiry to the UNIV government is because there seemed to be some conflict or legal uncertainty as to whether the matter was in the right direction. I think it's very important that we give a measure of support as we possibly can and that we abide by the law. I'm very kind and obliged. Here I see that according to the Agency's SEC, it appears that she should have published this list according to the direction given by RUS. I can just stand here and have no difficulty saying that if I don't know things and don't know exactly how the situation is growing, I just feel it's my duty to find out what it is. It's not about calling someone on the carpet. This is just about whether I can get information about why things are done as they are if it's not in accordance with RUS policy. I just hope more, including why. A senator, get into a good, disciplined practice, and review it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u22	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister's answer is, and I think it's just fine that a minister will follow the law. But I just thought the answer was the highest. Minister of the previous inquiry here today in a very different way, as a minister would call the administration in order to change the government decision on how counsel should be carried out. I couldn't understand why. Sæmundsson It was different from the way he interpreted the minister's answer to the same thing, that it would be changed, and he repeatedly rejoiced in a symposium that it had become clear and set up by a minister before the application deadline expires. I'll ask them to the highest. Minister to explain whether a legal explanation on the part of the government is involved or the intervention of a minister in his own decision governs the procedure of the recruitment process.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u23	A respectable president. So the minister is asking for information and support from the government because there has been evidence that there may be some legal uncertainty there. I just think it's really urgent that everything is in place, especially because the application deadline is running out. I think it's normal to manage that information and reason, and I feel like I'm doing my job. I'd like to mention it to you, too. A senator that I believe is that there is a transparency in everything the government does. I need opinions to be in politics, and this is my opinion. But I also feel very strongly that the management of RUSH oversupposes it and will clearly explain whether it is possible to have some legal uncertainty or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u24	As mentioned in the case of a leadman, who. paritaprevir The son of Þorsteinn Víglundsson received a request to the president that he change the registration and direct inquiry to a minister other than he had announced. The President agreed to this and allowed it to happen. A senator to direct a inquiry to the Ministry of Education and Culture rather than to the Environment and Resource Minister. In view of what happened later, the occasion was new to follow up on a request that had already been answered, the president concluded that he had made a mistake. The President is hereby ruling that the registration of a query cannot be changed and which minister should be directed after the unaccounted queries have been rejected for reasons that I think everyone will see if they begin to consider the matter. This question period is not thought to become a debate, and it can be selected as a leader according to the way the discussion unfolds. That is why they should be enrolled as soon as they pray for the word.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u25	A respectable president. In an unprepared question period on Thursday, I had questions to the highest level. Secretary of Social Affairs for Christmas. I asked him what a certain group would have done to deserve the Christmas bonus impaired, why they were being punished. He couldn't answer that question, so I answered for him myself and pointed out that all these people had done was pay for a legal deposit fund of pensions. The individual's Christmas bonus is impaired just because he makes the law and pays for a pension fund. I met this guy yesterday who got a huge Christmas bonus, 1% of a senator's bonus, exactly 1800 bucks. An invalid received 1,800 k. In a Christmas bonus, and I ask, "Is that normal? That's what's at the top. Social Affairs said and repeated that it had always been like this and should always be like that, that it was just normal. Is there nothing in the constitution that everyone should be equal? Isn't it against an equal rule to take one group out, just for paying for a pension fund, and saying to him, "Hey, you don't get a full Christmas bonus?" Let's see that we're not talking about the sum, we're talking about 181,000, 80,000 at work, and 44,564 k. Exactly in the case of micro-germs - and not all of them can have it intact. That's abnormal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u26	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry that I listened to is the highest answer. Department of Social Affairs and Children's Department. It's under his jurisdiction. As I understand why. A senator is really here asking that if we can call it that way, all the groups under the state will be fully watched over December. There we can mention micro-energy transplanters, elderly, jobseekers - these are not one of the ways - and they are the trustees who have not received a December's compensation for laws and regulations but who have received December supplementation for special decisions first in certain rural areas and later as a result of government decisions. I see why. A senator is primarily urging that this should be settled on the part of the government when it comes to jobseekers, microgeries, and the elderly. I realize that it's out of proportion, to form with micro-energy pensioners. I understood why. A senator, as in his inquiry, might not be quite clear now but at least in the question he brought here on Thursday, he specifically discussed the disability pensioners. This December's supplement has been taken into account in a relative way. We can tore up the way we want to see it, and I can share the viewpoints. A senator here suggests that perhaps there is reason to harmonize this better between different groups, for this is certainly not the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u27	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I'd also like to ask why, because that's a group case. We're talking about somebody getting less than 1,900 bucks. The Christmas bonus at the same time we get to keep our Christmas bonus, except for taxes. The person has paid taxes and impairment. That can't be normal. I'm also asking: Now I realized that it was a legal act of 10,000 bucks. I mean, would there be no taxes and no impairment in the world, it's for all, it's for the poor and the elderly? And when should this be paid? I know this isn't coming out, but I know people are waiting for this because people have told me that if they got a bad Christmas bonus, they'd use it to release drugs, it's so tough a year. I really hope that this will be revised and that everyone will get a bad Christmas bonus, just the tax, like everyone else gets, but not reduced by a pension fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u28	Mr. President. In this context, I want to remind you of the Commission's opinion of a larger section of the budget that was submitted along with the payment of budgets, which are being proclaimed to be of exactly the same type of budget. A senator mentioned, assumed 10,000 k. December supplementation for micro-energy pensioners. It makes this group especially vulnerable when we look at the overall development of recent years. V.E.G. Social and child - care minister needs to handle this by setting specific rules on December supplementation. I would like to remind you that more of the budget committee has announced that this change will be made with a financial bill that I hope will be done over in the next few days at the council, even though I am not exactly aware of the date when a budget committee will complete its work on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u29	Mr. President. I kind of come up here to call for the details of words at the highest. A president in relation to an unprepared inquiry what. paritaprevir Þorsteinn, son of Víglundsson. I asked for permission to change queries and Ministers in view of an answer to a previous inquiry to the highest level. Secretary of education. It is then a question of whether there is a third attempt to determine whether a minister intends to get support or to review the case legally. It's another story, we get answers to it in another way, but I have to say, I don't know what it was in words at the moment. A senator did so at the highest level. The president responded in this way. I ask for an explanation because, according to my best knowledge, and according to the words, there is nothing wrong with this arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u30	Mr. President. I likewise have to be surprised at this decision made by a respectable president. As far as I can see, this is simply a way to get our freedom to the level of unprepared queries. Minister. I wanted to direct this inquiry to the highest level. A minister simply because I felt that there was a number of previous answers that would indicate that the government of RUS was being interrupted and that there was good reason to ask the Supreme One. Minister to that. As a result, I consider the question to be quite different from the question. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Gestein, the Sæmundsson of Sæmund, who had certainly asked ministers on the same subject earlier. I wonder if it's in the power of the highest power. The President of the Generals has decided that each member of my body asks the highest question. Minister in unsubstantiated question time - so that it is repeated: unsubstantiated.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u31	A respectable president. I see at the top. The President is windowing the councilyard. I was going to do exactly the same thing, and I'm going to be able to read the chapter that turns to an unprepared inquiry, 58. ... withauthority of the President's permission: As long as half an hour in advance of certain meetings, usually twice each full week of work [...] the president can authorize members of the Parliament to present oral talks to a minister without any notice. It's as simple as this. I would have thought that the content and content of the inquiries the senators must ask without a warning, should not come to the highest level. President at us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u32	Mr. President. That's exactly what I wanted to point out. A president has a legal arrangement for contemporaneous affairs. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir referred to, but assumes that the highest. The President knows the Congress laws and those who sit with him. So I'd like to, just for the rest of the day, ask the highest. So whether it will be also that a minister will have answered a question raised by another senator and the one to follow would be the senator who later comes to answer the exact same question, since it is not later to be changed? It would be good to know if the president intends to be so rigid in his form that he cannot add anything to the questions that had previously been raised by members of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u33	Mr. President. I would like the president to reconsider his decision. I've been a couple of hours at the General Assembly, and I just don't remember a wish like that, at least. not that she's made trouble before. Besides, this is an unprepared time of inquiry, and this is not a reason for my opinion to the highest degree. President is defending the highest. Minister for unsubstantiated queries from whence. Councilmen. I wish for the highest. The president reviewed this decision because I don't think it's necessary to do something about this question period that we have, which isn't too many minutes each week, in order to enter the highest level. Minister for comment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u34	Mr. President. I wanted to arrange in this discussion to make a comment about the conferences about prepared inquiry, so there must be some room left for a president to evaluate how he performs it. Things have changed pretty much over the years. When I was starting a job, it was a big deal that these were the presidents of the government of the United States, asking prime minister and other oddly political classes. So developed in some way, making it possible, without any provision in the Senate but only for the arrangement, that there was a distinction between classes, distributions, based on agreements. But I say, in this case, as with many others, the president needs to use his judgment to determine the matter of opinion, and I think the president has done so with good intentions on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u35	President. I agree with the request that the president revise his decision. I can also say that it is normal for the program members such as unprepared inquiries to develop over time, but I think that the key here and the passwords are open and the conversation, that we agree to make a decision on how we want this team, unprepared inquiries, but that the president does not just decide at random if he does not like the questions that are raised and stops the government opposition to answer the minister when we think it may be neglected. It's stupid, and it's unfair to act like that. I'm asking the President to reconsider. It's similar to if we at the government stand suddenly take ourselves together and let the president know completely at the last hour to whom we were going to talk and what or we're going to insist on a few seconds before we go up to an unprepared inquiry and say, "Hey, yeah, we're going to go to this minister. Do we have to do that? Can we not agree that if we feel that we need an answer, we can enter a minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u36	A respectable president. Certainly, unprepared queries have developed to some extent. My first experience of being a senator was to be denied to go to an unprepared inquiry, in part because I was in the wrong pants, it was strange, and second, because I was a deputy, and it was the first speech and so on. There's been some strange explanation after. But in relation to this, I wondered if this is how these so - called unwritten rules come about because it's a little spes, I have to say. Out of the nature of the inquiry, the President's new decision is suddenly made that he must never do this again. I encourage the president to consider this rather than to make a decision in the President's chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u37	Mr. President. I must agree with the words of other members of the council here and ask that the president reconsider his decision. I'm thinking after a word or two. paritaprevir Birgir, Ármannsson of Aargis, that, rather, contemporaneous laws are rather few words of unprepared inquiry, the president has considerable opportunity to interpret them. This clause is very clear, it is the right of members of Congress to ask a minister without notice. I don't recall, after sitting in this class myself, that I've ever been told whether I was going to ask questions or not. You see, it was not prepared and without warning. Then I was obliged to stand up and answer the question I was asked to ask. That's what I think is the natural course. I feel that President's decision is simply an attempt to censor out the questions asked to the minister in this room. I find that completely unpleasant and all I can do is express my disapproval. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u38	...a senator uses his speech time to carry it on the President, not beyond his speaking period.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u39	Mr. President. I must agree with many of the above words and, of course, remind a president that he is the president of the entire council, perhaps more than the members of the council. I think it's only natural that we change this arrangement in such a way that instead of informing members of the House of Congress who will ask who is going to report what members of Congress are going to ask. It will be revealed in the symposium which minister will direct his words. That's a lot more natural and can create a much more interesting possibility during the council that we will follow one another's inquiries. I'm going to suggest that it be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u40	Mr. President. In view of what happened before that. G. ItHarðardóttir not like I've been in Congress for very long, but some year, I don't remember this incident, i.e. wish to change the request after starting unprepared queries. That's exactly what we've had in this arrangement, i.e. that council officers have to report who will ask whom. It is announced to the President any minister who needs to answer the inquiry. I haven't had anything to do with this checking, and I didn't think you could wish for a change when you started the question period. I've always understood this prockey, but there's another debate about whether we want to change it. I'll support the President on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u41	Mr. President. Not surprisingly, there are two sides here. Since this issue has gone down like this, and it is evidently divided by government and government, what understanding do people put into the concept unprepared, I intend to take advantage of this opportunity and make a suggestion. paritaprevir Logi Einara Einarsson says that we will make the matter very simple, not with the goal of getting to the top. The president can interpret it further rather than simply in a simple way so that a member of that body would be announced and then he would have a choice of the inquiry in time. Thus the queries would be what they are expected to be, completely unprepared. If the request to switch to respond to what is being said, the entire government, the President of the Generals, and the administrative body cannot do so much. [[The president calls.]] I suggest that we change it this way, that everyone will be aware that they will come here for unprepared queries.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u42	President. I often think a little bit about what we do not agree with each other in this conference hall, even though there may be times when we disagree. I have to say, I've had a bit of a disappointment about that. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] For some reason. People think it's very funny, they simply have to deal with themselves, not being more mature than that. However, I wondered, " Is this discussion simply not at home at a meeting of the council plans for presidents, where it is possible to have a conversation where people get their answers to their inquiries and speculations, in the spirit of what some have? ' Councilmen have spoken here about cooperation and conversation. Would it not be the most reasonable thing to say that this case would simply be arranged for a meeting of members of the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u43	A respectable president. As a member of the Presidency Committee, I suggest this be arranged at a meeting of the Presidency Committee for the next meeting, in case of time. I'm not making any mistake that, of course, the President is in charge of this. He can tell us all about it right here in a chair. I simply think that there would be a better way to discuss the matter on the presiding committee or with members of Congress, that is not everything. What I'm saying, however, is that the President chooses to do it this way. In fact, I feel that it has increased in recent times, has only been the last terms in comparison, that the president's decision is whether to state what they say here, but I have not seen this happen to anyone other than the members of the government. I can appreciate that the president is now under the cover of the administrative sector, as has always been the case with what I can get next. But I don't think it's a bad thing. I don't make any comments that the President is in charge of this. I appeal to his judgment and his willingness to conduct meetings with fine respect, not necessarily taking those battles in a chamber. It's supposed to be discussed on the Presidency Committee. I think it'd be better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u44	Mr. President. I'm going to come up here last thing about what to say. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Ottar's son, Proppér. I'd like to state that I'm sorry and sorry to have made the senator both think and grieve in the same discussion and that I have to admit that the person here may be a little later on the councilman's judgment, but it will just have to be. With that. A senator comes up here thinking and thinking that this matter is not addressed at a meeting of the prime committee or meeting of the council members may be a problem. A senator missed the court's decision without discussing it with members of the council. So it has been decided that members of Congress should not change their opinion of what question they would like to ask, so this discussion became a subject. But again, I admit that I may be a little more severe.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u45	A respectable president. I'd like to come up here to help out with the purpose that at least I'm going to. perceives behind the front of the program non-prepared queries. I've always understood it that this is where members of the council, mostly the anti - generals, have the opportunity to give the highest counsel. Governments, asking her about the current matter, asking a minister for answers on how they will respond to a matter or why they have reacted or whatever the case may be. When the purpose is considered, the idea that the Council and the Generals have some sort of surveillance role in the executive's administration, there is no doubt that it is determined in one moment that members of the council are not to follow answers that they feel they are a disgrace to the minister. This may rhyme quite well with what is at its height. In the past, the president has said that he does not feel that the rulers of the government must answer. Once they have refused to answer, they must only stand, even if they have a solemn obligation to answer. [[The president calls.]] We're just supposed to accept that ministers don't answer anything. We can't keep up with it either. What has become of our surveillance role?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u46	A respectable president. I'll give you the 10 seconds I passed. I just want to say something. paritaprevir The Logi Einarsson says that the members of the council will come here and direct their question to the Minister at that time. What bothers me, and it seems to me, too, to others here, is that the president places some material opinion on whether the question belongs to the others or to these ministers. There must be something that raises questions when it happens only to those in charge, apparently. You get the feeling, a respectable president, that the president is from time to time trying to be a member of the government stand, how it's normal to be a senator, and how you should conduct your work here, and I just don't like it, a respectable president. I just don't like it, that's all I want to say about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u47	President. Once again, I don't understand anything, and I'm not going to stand in tune with some senators, even though they are designed to think that what's said here at a whole U.S. Hall is about to focus on them themselves. I'm not that kind of person. I allowed myself to say that I was thinking and a little sad about the words that had been discussed. People may think it's smart, people can make fun of me, and they can belittle it. So if they choose to be such members of Congress, the same people will do so. President has issued a decision. Hv. Councilmen have made significant comments about that decision. I allowed myself to wonder if a continued conversation might be better at meeting a council leader meeting than for one minute alone with these things, as fine as they can be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u48	I've had a little bit of a chance that people are being disappointed in you. Hv. A senator is not my father, he is not a family member. I can disappoint people, that's just the way it is. I think it's stupid. But I would like to ask a respected president to answer us at the government stand to see if he would be willing to reconsider the decision he made and simply discuss this matter with us, either on the scene of the presiding committee or at the scene of the council of Congress. That would be the right thing to do. We could have cut the matter short by half if the president had come to meet us and naturally said that we discussed this matter rather than to bring some decision to the chamber.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u49	That was exactly what the president intended to do when a student's list of discussions about the President's conference board, which I think is now. The President would not want to miss the warm words that have been dropped here, including the. about his meeting board. It is true and necessary that the president explain why he made his decision when he realized that this had become a minor incident in the middle of a discussion of an unprepared question period, which I don't think is an example. At the very least, I can remember no precedent that members in the middle of an unsupervised period were missing from a petition they had decided to direct to some minister over to another minister because they were not at odds with something that had come up in reply. I'll tell you, it's in no way at all. paritaprevir The village of Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson, and he is more to be commended for his hunches, to think that this would be possible. So he is probably an initialist of the challenge. Of course, the president did not have much time to think about his course. I was afraid I'd made a mistake there, and I'll explain why. I don't think that's how unprepared queries generally work best prepared so that the government in the preceding week is appointed ministers to be answered. Therefore, the senators know who they are, make their mind of which Ministers they believe it is urgent to direct a inquiry, to turn information into the office, to the office, to the office, and to the president ensure very carefully that ministers have no idea who will apply to their inquiries or about what. All of this means that there is some kind of effort to influence each other. Senators are asking or asking what I must return. That's not what's going on here. It's just that this could well lead to the trend that from time to time, a non-paratory question session was made up of one matter all directed to one minister. I'm not sure it's the most convenient thing to do, but we should maintain this form along with other forms, discussions, requests for special discussions, etc. Incursion should be balanced and before man is introduced into changes of the nature of the whale. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson suggested and is of interest in many aspects - I might well agree that it would be possible if they were, in the beginning, immediately explaining to which minister they would direct a inquiry. The idea is that the Minister has two minutes to prepare the answers, i.e. ... whiletalkinginconcerned. That is why it has been made so, that the president is informed about which minister of the inquiry is directed and takes it out at the beginning so that the minister will take them up to listen and prepare. Sometimes it'll be good for you. It has happened, as it is known, that ministers have not at all noticed that they were being directed to an unprepared inquiry. [[Foreground: Was it me?]] No special names. President hopes this will explain at least Just a little bit of the reason he made that decision. It would be no problem to discuss the matter on the presiding committee and with the heads of Congress, but until then the decision is made and the decision of the president is made.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u50	Mr. President. I am one of the partners of this council-sense proposal and, of course, support it wholeheartedly. Landing is the lifeblood of the Western eyes to the land, and it is of great importance to the settlements, the population, and the business of the West. As far as I'm concerned, the construction of the land island crew is not finished at all. The seas must be completed. The report here would have to be reviewed by finding out and investigating the responsibilities of the adjustments needed to make so that the docks can be used as they were originally built. Thus, it is important that this assessment be thorough and, as it is put in the motion, regardless - in the sense that there will be a careful and objective way to draw up measures necessary to make adjustments in the country's docks.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u51	A respectable president. I'm glad we're going to accept this proposal today as I think it will be. Hopefully, once and for all, we will find the answer to what needs to be done to ensure that land landing will be the regular transport around the beginning of the year. Therefore, all the Islanders, of course, and hopefully just all other decent men.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u52	A respectable president. If we were for the first time putting these laws and didn't have any national records, I'm not sure I would vote for them. I feel that Iceland's information build-up is generally excessive. On the other hand, this bill is a great improvement in the previously existing arrangement, and it is the result of our putting the GDBR Act here, the new personal protection laws, in its own time. The Pirates and I support it. Also, I would like to say: We also support the modification proposals of the greater part, which, as we get the best of our ability, are also with our own change proposals, which we also support, and I will explain here as the vote goes forth.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u53	A respectable president. This is a recommendation for the decommissioning of logistic and biological registrations. However, it follows the same fifth stipulation which gives national permission to record this while we can find out how we can dismiss the terms of charges, i.e. to January 1, 2021. This is the point that I would put myself at most, that people's religions, legally see registration into religious and biological societies, are registered in a national record, something I'm against very much. If this change is made which I think it will be, I will sit by the account of Article 6. for these reasons.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u54	A respectable president. In view of the 6th degree. ... still has the authority to gather registration into human religion and principles, which means the expected registration of the religious convictions of people in almost all cases, we're sitting by Pirats at 6. It has gotten better than it already was, but the register is still indistinguishable to us. The reason for its existence is simply not good enough to allow collection of such delicate personal information. I also saw it in the second tour of today's Regulation in 2 mg. may be too extensive. I don't think so, but I'm not quite sure, and it makes my conviction that it's best to sit with this article. That's what we said is for the rest of the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u55	A respectable president. One of the positive new indicators in this bill is that a person can request it with logic and even evidence that distribution in his name and home is not permitted. This adjustment implies that it will continue with the person's name, while the person may wish that information about his home will not be distributed to others simply if he wishes it. It does not have to demonstrate any threat or anything like it. Simply put, we do not feel that it is necessary to distribute this information. As long as the government knows how to tax and how to disband and figure out the rights and duties of the individual, there is no need to allow distribution of this if the registered person wishes that the information is not distributed. I think it's a clear safety point, but even if this suggestion would be made that I think it will be made, it's the command to be changed very positively, even without this change.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u56	A respectable president. This is a somewhat strange arrangement, which I think is undisputed that it is strange, and it is that the government's insurance agency should pay a tenth of the operation of national records for reasons that have never been properly explained. It was convenient at some point. Well, maybe now it's a good thing for my colleagues to do something about it. paritaprevir To find how to change the budget to which it will go, the servant of Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson was on a budget committee. I leave it in the hands of the good man. Senator. The needed adjustment in these laws is very simple; it is to eliminate this law. The rest would be settled in the budget, even after the acts of financial contributions. This also has to do with the 4th count of the same change proposal. So it is the same subject, to remove this strange tithe from the state's insurance agency to the national records, so the same is true of both the 3rd and the 4th counts of the adjustment proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u57	A respectable president. In view of the fact that I was suggesting that this article fell away, it is not appropriate to vote with her, so I vote against her.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u58	Mr. President. We hereby vote for a so-called Guðmundur case and Geir fictitious case, a warrant to pay compensation for the Supreme Court's court. For this reason, I would like to challenge the Central Party's position on the matter that this case is not at this point in the commercial halls of the Algilans. As is the case at this point today, agreements, and decision on the benefits and financial benefits, it is definitely the task of the respective government that will handle government contracts and courts without agreements. While those cases have not been reimbursed in that area and the decision is not a subject for discussion at the General Assembly. The middle class believes that it is mandatory to look to the State's trimetrical system according to its constitution, that a branch of the state does not enter into the field of activity of another. However, Mr. President, the case should not be ruled out after the decision has been made by the courts, but that is the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u59	Mr. President. I'll support the case and sign the committee's opinion. However, I did so in advance, along with other members of the council, which I would like to reiterate and consider correct. It is signed in advance that the government's case of reconciliation, particularly the development of a written document by a state lawyer in charge of government as a defense against the State, has not been designed to pay for a successful solution and reconciliation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u60	Mr. President. I come up here to join some of the jurists who have expressed themselves in this matter. The case is really unnecessary, and I refer to it, including... to tell no less of a respected jurist than Ragnar the Aðalsteinsson of the Chief Stone, whom I believe is one of our foremost wise men. He gathers into many parts that all the items that are mentioned in this bill can be found in other laws. I will, of course, vote with this bill, but I recommend that the government be justified in the matter of the Guðjón of Skarphéðinsson, who remains and remains as well as at the height. Prime Minister has not received a multiple-item request for an interview by Erla Bolladóttir. I must say that she has not yet been answered after all this time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u61	A respectable president. The union supports this matter, and I am one of the senators who sign with due notice. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson reported earlier. I think he thinks a state attorney has thus held the case under government authority, including. with his report, that there was no chance of reconciliation, but from the point of view only to supporting this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u62	Mr. President. First of all, I want to take this opportunity and thank you. A full-scale educational committee for her discussion on the subject. I believe that the opinion given by the majority of the committee will show the need for this bill in the conference and also hope so, because I'm not going to get into a political discussion about this matter, that accepting this bill can pay to end this matter with some kind of reconciliation as far as possible to settle the complex issues that are presented here. First of all, I come up here to thank you. The General and Education Committee for its contributions in this case and the work that has been put into this complex and delicate matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u63	A respectable president. I signed the committee with the same notice that was described earlier. I have to say, even if I'm supporting the case, I think it's stupid. I think it's stupid that it needs to be done. I feel that the authorities are unable to do anything right when it comes to the Gudmunds and Geies Act. However, the decision remains whether this matter should be realized or not, and my position is that it should be fulfilled. That's why I'm on it. On the other hand, I will sit by for personal contact with someone who is relevant to the matter, so I don't feel comfortable taking a stand on it with my vote. The same is true of the rest of Porita's members.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u64	A respectable president. I'll only be technical. I don't quite understand. It's not a financial bill, it's not a legal case, but there's still a sum in the case and things that I don't fully understand about the preparation and contribution of the case, the reasoning that comes with it, etc. But I understand the delicateness of the matter, so I support it. Still, we need to do it better, and at some point I let the film go as far as it is concerned because of the delicate nature of the situation. The next step in this matter needs to be extremely careful, and everyone must understand it. So I'm just saying, thanks for the case, even if it's the way it is. Let's do better, though.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u65	Mr. President. We vote for the bandworm. We're even. to introduce taxation on so-called F-gas which has been estimated by 7% of the commitments to the Icelanders due to the Paris Convention. This is a very important change and cause for rejoicing. I'd also like to use this opportunity to sharpen the Ministry of Environment and Resources and finance to speed up the progress of the tax in terms of environmental taxes, as stated in the Commission's list of objects. If you are right, it can become one of the most powerful taxes ever laid on Iceland's history, since currency can be free of right conduct by paying it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u66	President. Many increases are expected here. It is very sad that the state has again become responsible for raising fees and obligings in the public, raising prices each year. A few years ago, the policy of deportation was taken up, turned away from the government's bringing in the inflation, but now we see all of this coming back again. It is important to remember that the effects of this State's promotion are far more than direct effects. As we have seen recent years, this immediately affects the price of a number of people in society, increases the cost of consumption in many places, and as a result of the index price and credit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u67	Mr. President. We in Recession feel that there is no physical laws that the government's centennial fees need to be raised to the level of prices. We don't feel much about the government's statement that these charges are actually being reduced, as they are only increased by 2.5% when inflation is 2.7%. We oppose these growths, but we support the changes being made to environmental costs in this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u68	Mr. President. We in the United States are glad that the labor movement has made changes in the income tax system in terms of justice, and therefore we support the changes in the branches. However, we cannot support their children's children who use their child - welfare system as a kind of poverty.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u69	A respectable president. So when we lower taxes and raise child support and all that, I will support this bill. It doesn't change the fact that I find the priorities of money that attracts the third step wrong. I don't think it's normal that the cost of that is 21 billion. in 2022 and that the next year only 2450 KK. Put in their pockets the earner's pocket. These are small steps, but they can't help but vote with them even though I had personal priorities a little different.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u70	President. Just a few years after the ultimate. The secretary of finance rejoiced that the tax system had been simplified by reducing the three tax steps to two, the government will increase the levels of tax from two to three, and the tax system will be complicated. In fact, this concomitant effect is indicated to reduce taxation to the new lowest level but at the same time increase the tax to the level between levels. So these suggestions contain quite positive and very negative changes, which are hard to break. As a result, members of the Central Party will not vote for or against these proposals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u71	A respectable president. It is noteworthy that as big and as important as it is below, even the members of the council are not even worthy of the committee's opinion. It is simply a very large step that was announced immediately when the government was assembled to lighten the country's homes. The vast majority of people will see their taxes drop by 70,000,200,000. every year. That's $70,000,200,000. A year in the pocket of taxpayers. The middle class may comment on a complex process, but we in the Independence Party call a decrease in taxes and we support a tax count. This government saw to it that for peace to become a workforce, there would have to be a compromise from the government. This proved true, and as a result, we have achieved long - term contracts on the labour market by yielding only on the government's income tax. This is a great cause for rejoicing, and even if it takes effect in two steps, it is a happy day.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u72	Mr. President. This tax change is supported by our restoration. It is much better in terms of the development of necessary changes in the tax system than the original ideas of this government were, as this tax change has been made to demand the labor movement in the preparation of collective agreements. It is good to see that taxes are being dropped on those who may be allowed to share in the community. [[Foreground on:]] However, it would have been wishounced that there would have been room to go for work faster than in reality to testify than the payoffs of that government would have prevented them from bringing in the tax reductions completely next year. Still, we support a good deed and say yes to the change as a whole.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u73	Mr. President. I'm glad this case has come to the fore, because it's here to introduce a system modification of the income tax system that will get the most efficient of the revenues. These changes are based on a very difficult job, considering how we could, on the other hand, fulfill the government's promise to lower taxes and to ensure that this would benefit the most needed. And I would also like to welcome the proposed increases in child improvement, which is in harmony with the focus of this government, to meet family members in the country, especially young people with children, and all our data show that it is important to meet that group. So it's a good thing, it's well prepared, and certainly it also counts that it served its part in ensuring peace in the labour market in signing biographies. I hope to see as the broadest solidarity in this hall of good things.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u74	Mr. President. This is the second collection bill we vote on today. I'll admit it's not quite the income tax system I've fought for, but it doesn't change the fact that the cumulative taxation of this government in a system change to the individual income tax system is 31.6 billion in the total terms period. 31.6 billion dollars. a decrease in tax. It's interesting to me that there's only one minor opinion in this case, but there's no change in proposals, and here in the bandormins earlier was not one minority opinion, no change in suggestions, no comments from the smaller parts. [[Up front.]] It's interesting, Mr. President, and it's worth considering now that we're paying votes to lower individual taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u75	V.E.G. President. Of course, I welcome the changes this bill is going on. This is the implementation of a government policy declaration to reduce income taxes, especially in terms of making most of the lowest income. Indeed, this change is presented in a more complicated way than I would have chosen, such as the dog. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason changed from here on, but the goal is clear, and the change here is expected to result in a better standard for everyone. That's why I'm on the side of this case, thinking we should celebrate it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u76	A respectable president. It's a good change in the tax system. It's not too complicated. It's not complicated to have a lot of tax steps, it's not too hard to put it in a formula and calculate what's going on, as long as you have every premium under there, to be clear. There is only one comment I make regarding these changes: Those who are actually below the lowest level have a relative lower rate of recovery than those on the stage with a higher income. This constitutes a relative reduction in taxation for those with the lowest income, part - time jobs, or so on. It's the only comment I make with this. It should have been just compared to the tax level as if it were the lowest so that everyone up until then would have the same benefit from the tax reduction. But it wasn't done, so I'm still on both sides about whether I sit by or vote with.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u77	Mr. President. In case of a moment. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason would now review the fate of a change from my share in the past two years, perhaps he would realize why we are not always bothering us to make adjustments. [[Up front.]] However, it was what attracted my attention to the highest. The prime minister constantly speaks of these changes being best for the lowest wage. Then she has an entirely new interpretation that has been prominent in her recent life, that she always thinks about it proportionally. Only now is the amount of fuel, milk, and bread that cost just as much for the one with 220,000 as the one with 1,400,500,000. Injustice involves not putting a third step further on us that can actually carry it, adding even more taxes to those with the lowest wage.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u78	Mr. President. Because of the anxiety of the world. Secretary of the budget and what. The head of the Economic and Business Committee may have a lack of opinions from my share. Perhaps it's a good reason to save the paper here in this room. Here is a very simple situation: budgets have been approved. It would be irresponsible on our part to make some adjustments that undermined the budget's budget. Therefore, there are no proposed changes on our part. True, we would like to do more on tax reduction than that, to agree with the laws, to violate Kingdom funds' targets for the next year. Such suggestions would not be responsible. But because of him. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, president of the Economic and Business Committee, boasted that in mathematics, he would put together over the terms of the impact of the tax doctors of this government, which are insignificant, it may be nice to remember that the cost of this government will be 4,000 billion in this term period. Better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u79	A respectable president. It would have been wish that all these billions would have slipped into their pockets that really need them. It is, in effect, incomprehensible that it is to leave those who are very good at it with taxes that they have nothing to do with. We have nothing to do with them. This should flow to those who have remembered. But every dollar is important to these individuals, so I will support them. It doesn't matter if there's only a few pennies. It is of utmost importance to these people, only in the case of medical or medical treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u80	A respectable president. While this may not have been directly related to my subject, there is nothing more to it than to say, because taxation is a decrease. What a joy it is to participate in paying votes with a tax reduction that will translate 20 billion a year when it is fully operational! I shall quite admit, most respectable president, that I was a little surprised to hear what. Senators of the Board of Overseers. Actually, they say they didn't write a committee opinion about environmental reasons. And the Central Party? He doesn't vote with taxes. I think it's very important that all the voters know about it. This is where we're talking about an enormous amount of tax decline. Either vote with it or not. Because it's simple. If everyone would vote like the Central Party, there'd be no tax reduction. A respectable president. I'm glad it's out and votes with this with great joy and pleasure.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u81	President. The government deserves commendation for having signed our biographies in spring. When they were talking about this transfer of income taxation that had to be done, to create the scope needed to land the biographies, we immediately criticized this extra step, and I in this chair. The person who has more than 350,000. This tax step will be fully used, and all the tax rates these 20 billion will cost for the entire population. An eagle with only 250,000 will not have the same amount of money as others. That's a fact. This, therefore, results in less than proportionate benefits to those who have not. That's wrong. Let's be clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u82	A respectable president. One aspect of this case that I feel is a good reason to think in particular is about changing personality discounts. It is about to be a big change with the new criteria that the character discount will bring to the future and is called to the ideologies in the biographies agreements that pay for changes in national production on a person. I'm happy about this because changes in personality discounts and the limits of the steps have been over and over again. With regard to the committee literature, I do not miss them particularly, even though they are not available. It can be published even if a person is going to support a case and even if he is not going to make any adjustments. You just need to keep away from speaking about this important matter, which is especially helpful to those who need it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u83	Mr. President. Here we are going to vote for basic tax changes we have, from two to three-step tax systems. This is very important, and it is a fundamental change that will be most beneficial to those who have been remembered, especially when considering the overall changes being made with this bill. Hv. If so, members of the council can review it, for example on page 20. 5 in the bill where a fine tablet shows it black in white.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u84	Madam President. As I mentioned earlier, this subject contains positive and negative changes. The most negative thing is that humans should return to their previous time by interfering with the tax system that was believed to be so important that a simple and excellent outcome was achieved at the current highest level. Secretary of finance then, too. But tax levels are also being increased, they are increasing from one step to the next. However, I hope the overall results of this new and complex system will be relatively positive. However, I raised one question to the Honourable Minister of Independence: Why does the United States support this case if it is such a tremendous and generous decrease in taxes?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u85	Mr. President. As well as the ASI reviews and a detailed and good Commission party from the U.S. Department of Economic and Business Committee, which I'm hearing at the top of. Ministers have all read, and hopefully all of them have. Councilmen also, the tax rate for couples who make their income at the lower quarter, and who have two children in place will be 1 percent lower than those without children with the same income. The tax weight of the income - greater pair with and without children will be the same. It is evident, therefore, that ours is and becomes the child - welfare system, according to government policy, far from the systems of the Norwegian states, where the goal is to balance the status of the children and those who do not have children. Sadly, instead of looking to the Norwegian states, the government is setting a good example in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u86	Wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u87	Right.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u88	Mr. President. This bill is against us in the United States. We want it to be planned for the future and that we make the system the changes most useful to the public in the country and normal companies. Once we have done so and replaced business banking and investment banking, let us examine the taxation and decide what it will be like. Whether at banks or others, it is not good to constantly stir the tax environment. So let us start by changing the system as we see it best serving to the future and then recording the tax and considering how we're going to have it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u89	Mr. President. It is this tax reduction, in fact, like the loss of income tax, that the government is pushing it more and less on to the year 2021, where the government was finished with all the money by 2020. In fact, I feel that this case is a bit Colombian in the way that we are actually dealing with income-presidents of budgeting in 2020, here we are paying votes for the tax reductions to begin in 2021 and actually far beyond the next term. It may be some kind of sin for the sake of this government that it has not been achieved in reducing taxes with more force than it has seen. Nevertheless, we at Relations support these plans, even though they are rather late for their implementation. It is clear that high credit rates in this country are higher than those in the United States, and it has been repeated in the news that the number of GDPs does not return to individuals or companies, including those of the United States. For the sake of a high bank tax, and it is a pleasure to see that, although late, hopefully, it will be the result of its fall. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u90	A respectable president. This is a tax that is relatively recent and was introduced in history by special arguments during the years that followed. It's a burden to finance. From the beginning, taking away from him would be a challenge, as taxes often tend to live much longer than expected in original ideas. In this case I have stressed it, and I have put this matter before the council, that we need to make decisions, even if they do not all come into action immediately. There's a legal reduction in these taxes to provide premonitions on the business environment of financial companies. We need to do so in step. It would have been better to do it faster, and it would have been best if this tax had never been laid. [[The president calls.]] However, because of circumstances in his day, it is now a vital decision to eliminate him.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u91	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill that includes a reduction in so-called bank tax. According to a bill report, the project is intended to reduce the tax and to reduce its yield to consumers in the form of lower costs for financial companies. For this, Mr. President, there is no guarantee, and in this adjustment proposal, it is suggested that only the first step will be taken instead of giving when an annual reduction in the next four years is reported. The next step will be the experience of the first phase of the decline when it has been proved that clients benefit from it in the form of lower service costs and improved interest rates. There's a lot of consumer protection involved in an important adjustment proposal, and I'm saying yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u92	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 269/2019, of the combined results of the Paris Treaty in 2021◯2030. In this decision, there are five types in the agreement between Iceland, Norway and the European Union regarding a common greenhouse gas recession target over the period of 2021◯2030. These types are included in the Protocol 31 with the EEA Convention on Cooperation in Special Areas beyond the limit of the fourty of freedom. A respectable president. The EEA Convention contains measures that are involved in environmental protection and protection of the environment. Whether any EU types fall under the EEA Convention or not, there may be evaluations. Factors relating to EU emissions trade systems, ETS, have already been recorded in the EEA Convention and are taking the EFTA countries within the EEA full part of the ETS system. However, other EU types due to commitment in climate matters in general have been considered to fall outside the EEA's material domain and therefore have not been recorded. In this case Iceland and Norway have chosen to work with the EU on a common basis under the Paris Convention for the period 20213/42030. Thus, the types are entered into Protocol 31 on the EEA Convention, i.e. ... cooperationindiscriminatelywith the four divisions of freedom, instead of XX. The Annex of the Convention, Environment. The main difference between these two routes is that by interpolation of the 31 books, Iceland and Norway will not be expected to fall within the EEA's material framework and thus do not expand the interpretation of the validation of the contract from the present time on. By dropping the types in book 31, they can be viewed as part of an cooperation project that Iceland and Norway might decide not to continue after 2030, if that were their choice. The induction calls for some adjustment in the country, with a change in climate law, No. 70/2012. Therefore, when the joint EEA Commission decided that these types should be included in the EEA deal, Iceland set a speculative notice. That means this decision won't make any difference until Iceland has lifted its warning. This is not to be done until the official approval of the Generalis in the form of a hearing of confirmation of the decision made by the Joint EEA Committee. A respectable president. Details of the decision made by the European Commission No. 269/2019 is to say that according to the agreement, the two key types involved in EU emissions outside the EU emission-free business system, ETS, and the national emissions and carbon bindings are included in the EEA agreement. With this arrangement, Iceland will have an approved objective within the EEA Convention and the Paris Convention, but not with two commitments and release accounts. Iceland and Norway have already adopted part of EU climate policy through the EEA Convention. The countries entered the ETS in 2008, with about 40% of Iceland's emissions falling in that area, mainly from major companies. Iceland was then involved in a common objective with the EU during the late Kyoto Protocol period of 2013-2020 under a two-sided contract. A respectable president. After the Paris Convention was adopted in 2015, Iceland, such as other member countries of the Convention, sent in a national target for losing emissions to 2030. Iceland said that they would participate in a joint European target of 40% emissions to 2030 in advance of an agreement with the EU to participate. Norway sent comparable goals. The challenge of this cooperation is that internal rules determine the share and duties of each of the 30 member states, with respect to the Paris Treaty the countries have one common contribution. A further and detailed explanation of the case is made in the accompanying proposal for interpretation. I propose, a respectable president, that the end of this discussion will be alluded to this proposal. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u93	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to confirm for Iceland to the decision made by the European Commission No. 128/209, which measures the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council 2017/352 of February 15, 2017, to set up a port service framework and common financial transparency guidelines for rejection, to be set up in the EEA Convention. In Regulation 2017/352 it is recommended that the financial transparency in their management rejects, which are part of the European transport network, between ports and dock services, equals, agreements with stakeholders and users and conditions for dock services. The requirements for service to seamen are set out and the requirements for new members to perform such services. For a discussion of views that justify the number of restrictions for docked service, the possibility of contributing public services to services, rejection of employees' rights and training. Implementation of the Regulation calls for changes in turned-offs, No. 61/2003. It is also necessary to change the Regulation on the matter or to implement a new Regulation on the subject. The bill is being built by the Department of Transport and Civil Affairs, which will take this suit. I propose, a respectable president, that the end of this discussion will be alluded to this proposal. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u94	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 172/2019, which measures the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council 2017/2394 from December 12, 2017, on cooperation between national authorities responsible for implementing the Commission's legislation on consumer protection and the breakdown of Regulation No. 2006/2004, will be set up in the EEA Convention. The Council of Europe and the Council of 2017/2394, from December 12, 2017, on the cooperation of consumer protection, is proposed to ensure compliance with consumer protection laws, particularly in cross-border business cases, increasing the effectiveness of the internal market and the protection of consumers. The Regulation will continue to include the website of the official monitoring organisations covering the entire EEA. On the basis of this Regulation, the Agency will receive the rights and responsibilities of mutual assistance in the treatment of specific offenses directed against consumers. The fractions to be considered are violations of the law that introduce the actions of the European Union in the field of consumer protection listed in the Regulation. The Regulation requires increased effectiveness in cross-border cooperation and decision-making. This will stipulate the Regulation on new minimum possible authority as consumer surveillance institutions. The implementation of the Regulation calls for the sentence of a new government legislation on the cooperation of the European Economic Area on consumer protection. In this case, the legislation on the cooperation of governments in the European Economic Areas on consumer protection, no. 56/2007. At the same time, several consumer protection laws have to be changed so that the competent authorities in charge of their implementation have the minimal authority to enforce and investigate under the Regulation. Sources for the implementation of the Regulation were submitted to the General Assembly on November 1, 2018, as agreed in Article 330 and Article 331 of the 150th C.E. I propose, a respectable president, that the end of this discussion will be alluded to this proposal. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u95	A respectable president. As a result of this decree of Congress, the Allied warrants are sought to confirm for Iceland a contract between Iceland and the Faeroe Islands for Fishing in Icelandic and British jurisdictions between 2019 and 2020, which were temporarily completed by letter exchange between the government of the United States earlier this year. The contract requires permission of parties to fish seafood in the legal history of each other in 2019 and 2020. It is unchanged from year to year, but with two - year - olds, the peak the Faeroe ears can catch from 25,000 tons to 30,000 tons after reaching 500,000 tons of total citadel. Iceland is authorized to hunt as many as 1,300 trains of mackerel a year in the fishing story of the Faeroe Islands in 2019 and 2020. The nations agreed to start working to change the arrangement of these negotiations with the aim of making a longer-term frame deal, but there would be some changes, such as salutations and access, in accordance with the circumstances of the day. The contract went into effect on a preliminary June 3, 2019 day. It will have final value when it has been announced that the administrative conditions of each country have been met. Before this deal was made, the national agreement since 1976 determined that high - quality ships were allowed to catch 5,600 trains of bottom fish at Iceland in 2018. However, the overall forces of cod will not exceed 2,400 trains, the total segments of a cone will not exceed 650 trains, and no fishing will be allowed on the hatches or in the window. Granted, recent contact with our cousins in Faeroe Islands has been unfortunate, particularly in the case of a fishing road. A new framework agreement between the nations has been planned for fishing but has not been successful despite a good offer on our part. Then, in Faeroe Islands, at the beginning of 2018, new fishing legislation went into effect. The prohibitions of foreign investments on the ecstatic industry. This legislation is inconsistencies with the Hoyevity Convention that authorized Icelanders to have up to one third of their holdings in the ever-distinct industry. Investment warrants harming Icelandic interests and bordering on direct property recordings without any compensation being replaced. In the government covenant of the government, which took over the Faeroe Islands of September 14th, U.S.A. says that the current foreign investments in development maintain their value but a 25% roof will be used as new investors. The bill on the legal adjustment of that material has been presented in the Educable Legal Assembly. Then the Hayvík's resignation, which will go into effect at the coming years of great disappointment, will be seeking to limit the damage that may be caused by the resignation. Finally, there is still free agreements on herring, mackerel, and carbons, where her decision about her would certainly be unfortunate. In this situation, well. A senator, it is reasonable to ask, Is the right thing to do with this deal? My answer is definitely yes, because we have to look at the big picture. The agreement was made at the appropriate time when we faced a hairy failure and double vision in the rest of our tourism activities. The treaty gave us permission to catch coal and herring, as well as makoil, in the jurisdiction of Faeroe Islands, which are making more money from hunting, and which is at some point to meet the failure of hairy. Of course, we need to consider the importance of maintaining historical friendship, trust, and mutual support of the nations, but it is of no less importance to look to the many valuable opportunities offered by the cooperation of the nations. We are confined to the deep - seated bond of the fishing road. Outside threats are more dangerous than temporary differences. The annual cooperation of the nations in the fishing industry has no doubt contributed to the prosperity of both countries. The protection and sensible use of common populations will be a common interest in both nations and a fundamental prerequisite for our continued prosperity. So I consider this agreement to be a small, yet important part of maintaining our strong friendships and interests, as well as another sign that we can come up with an agreement on conflicting issues, an agreement that serves our personal interests, and increases the benefits of each one of us. A respectable president. I suggest that after this discussion, this proposal be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-12-02-38.u96	V.E.G. President. I recommend a board of committees on bill to legalize customs and other laws. This is a bill that suggests that the office of the head of the state tax and toll managers will be united and that a project in one institution called the IRS and the head of the tax will be conducted. The customs manager's office will thus be reduced to the present form, but the customs watch projects will be appointed a special place in the united office under the management of the customs manager, who will be subject to the head of the tax. So here it is said to reduce the number of government institutions over one purpose is to increase effectiveness in tax management, stress, and the collection of public remunerations, which may have some advantages. The bill's report shows that there may be great additive effects and economic benefits that can result from the combined cooperation between the head of the state tax and the toll manager, especially in the light of rapid technological advancements and increased self - efficiency. The reviews given to the committee describe support in the progress of the bill. As normal, combining large institutions can be a challenge, so the more part will encourage the smoothness of cooperation and can draw lessons from the likes of other organizations, as appropriate. In particular, consider respect and understanding for the staff of the office. Then the more part points out that when we meet together in this type, the initial cost will be inevitable so that it will be taken into account when the integration begins to guarantee the costs to be met by the team and that the uniting will work at a reasonable level. The majority contributes to some changes that appear in the Committee opinion and I will not be traced here. According to the above, the greater part contributes to the approval of the bill by the changes proposed in a special Senate document. Silja Dögg Dög Gunnarsdóttir was absent from the case, but under the writings of President Óli Björn Kárason, Brabbur Níelsson, Þorsteinn the son of Víglundsson, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, and Smári Mccarthy.
