ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u1	Borist has a letter from the 11th. We're out of Suðvest. "Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son, "that he will not be able to attend next week. A letter has also been received by the vice president of the Parliament party of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York City of Jehovah's Witnesses. We're out of here. "The Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson cannot attend in the near future. So today, on Wednesday, February 6, take place at the General Assembly, which was for the 1st Apostle in the left movement's list of green bids in the Southwestern District, Hildardóttir Hjörbjörðurdótir, and 1st assistant to the people's list in the Southwestern District, Jónína Björk Óskarsdóttir. They have previously taken up residence at the General Assembly and are welcome to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u2	The president considers an agreement that may last longer than the Senate allows. [[Up front.]] It is a form of protest. The president asks if anyone would like a vote on that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u3	Yes, unless the council presidents...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u4	The president may inform us that at a meeting of the presidents of a council on Monday, the following article was mentioned, and the protests were not moved. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u5	On the other hand, it is impossible to accept that Piratars are written...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u6	The president does not intend to have discussions about such matters with members of Congress and asks: "Is there a request for a length of meetings? [[Foreground on: Yes.]] Then a vote on that matter is given and a call will be made to her.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u7	Mr. President. Just to explain it, because it wasn't a complete failure at a meeting of the council groups, I wish to get information from a president before it's decided whether the meeting will be extended, or the motion is about extending a meeting to midnight or more. I think it might matter when it comes to the conclusion of the vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u8	An agreement for Christmas was originally made to complete this case around the January/February month convention. There is a very long proverbial list, and the president is interested in making sure that all members of Congress are interested in saying so. But to do that, you need a few meetings. In view of how late the discussion of the program begins on a day like this, on Wednesday, we seem to be downtight unless we found something until the evening. By the end of the night, the president had planned to speak with members of the council and evaluate the number of members left on the rosary. For the best of all, the president has a great deal of concern that the General Assembly will complete its discussion on this matter before the election begins and that it is not later considered to be an agreement to complete the January/February month convention. Is this perfectly clear? [[The point is, this is clear.]] This is clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u9	Mr. President. We're asking for a vote on whether a meeting should be extended. At a meeting of the president, it was not surprising that there would be a possibility of a longer conference today. It was not followed. We have not been informed how long this meeting will continue until now. We naturally feel that there is a question at some point. For the agreement as the highest. The president speaks of them, we thought we would have a week in the council to discuss this matter. We feel that it is a normal time to discuss the matter, so it was suggested, and we are not interested in betraying it rather than in others.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u10	Mr. President. I have to come up here now, since we non-participants had no idea that this meeting would start at a vote. I come in running to get my vote. It's not possible. This is not welcome. [[Up front.]] It is not acceptable to introduce ourselves if we are to begin a meeting with a vote. [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u11	Mr. President. I'm gonna defend both of them. President of Congress, but also critical of him. It did not mean that there would be a vote unless, in that respect, for the rest of the time, Pirat and I have mentioned to the Council, and entered agreement with him, that there would be no consent at Pormiss. We need to get this written down. We didn't get it this time. This will continue if the Speaker's office does not guarantee written agreements with Porta's council on such a matter. Then it's not a problem, we'll have it in writing, and there's no need to run in votes like we're going to get into this right now. This is what I say to make it clear to all members of the Parliament where the responsibility is in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u12	For an unexpected vote at the beginning of a meeting, it is unusual for the reader to be notified, including suggestions from a president whom he has reason to believe there is no objection. However, if it is done or asked for a vote, it will be done when asked for it. There's hardly any other way to have it. The president's attention is what. Councilmen assume that it is most appropriate for men to be present at a meeting when it begins and to be announced at a designated time. It's been a long time before this meeting would begin at the time. 15 After the end of a council meeting. So that's it, then. That's it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u13	Borist has received a letter from the secretary of state asking for every request to provide a written answer to a petition for this request. Seven hundred forty-eight, on the protection of the ocean systems, from the Snæbjörn of Brynjarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u14	Mr. President. As I have done several times before, I intend to use this site to discuss nuclear disarmament. Reports have been received from the U.S. renovation of a medium-range nuclear missile contract, including On the grounds that the Russians are already breaking the deal. This is one of the most important disarmament treaties ever made, but it was made between these two nations, Russia, and the United States, and it went on to see that a whole category of nuclear weapons would be destroyed. During the past 30 years or so, the United States, under the cover of this contract, has spent about 30 years. 850 and 300 miles, respectively. Of course, 1,850 rockets have made the world much more secure. The only people to profit from such an agreement are these great nuclear nations, as well as the products of nuclear weapons. At the time of this arms race, other nations have agreed to destroy nuclear weapons and have proposed to conclude in the United Nations that nuclear weapons will be banned. On January 14, the U.S.A., I proposed a political decree that a member of the U.S.A. will be involved in this nuclear ban. I really hope that this is the time to get on the program. If not now, then, when is the time to discuss the status of the world's nuclear weapons? I'm sorry, but this is what's most important in these matters today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u15	A respectable president. Today the left movement celebrates its 20th birthday, and I want to take advantage of the opportunity to talk about one of the basics of the movement, which is women's freedom. It may not have been overlooked for anyone that at last the victims of sexual harassment and violence have finally been heard by their voices under the merits of #metoo. Similarly, young active women recently called attention to sexual harassment at work areas, with the mark of working peace. There were even more accounts of the harassment that has been viewed for years as part of a person's day of work and, especially, of young women in the ministry. I personally know the hostile situations described there. A respectable president. There is no one proper way to cope with harassment or violence. We all respond in different ways, whether we are tolerancers, doers, employers, or caregivers. So we must learn from one another, listen to the enduranceors, and ensure a safe environment where those who tolerate can step forward and bring back the shame. We live in a time where our client is always right, and it is especially difficult for young women in male classes to complain about such behavior. Then there is no question about the situation of the various minorities under the same circumstances. It is important that governments help to clarify the consequences of harassment in the workplace and to cooperate closely with unions and trade unions to eliminate sexual harassment at work. A respectable president. In all stories that have appeared in the last few years under the merits of #metoo and # Work Peace is one clear requirement, the requirement to do their job in peace without the need to be harassed, prejudice or violence, whether by word or level, whether by fishing workers or by the highest institutions of the country. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u16	A respectable president. There has been no doubt that we are going to spend the day and likely into the night discussing the road program until the next five years. I'd like to refer here to a tiny piece of paper that appeared in the Morning Press this morning. The heading on this article is tax taxes and taxes. It doesn't matter what they call it, charges, roads. The fact is, there is endless exposure to light to add spells to the common people, who are actually taxed in severe poverty. Our people paying taxes, which are worth far below 300. K. paid in a month. In 2019 the state budget will be 7 billion. due to a 63% decrease in the so-called bank tax. I'm here talking about the priorities of money, a respectable president. In 2019 the reduction in fishing costs will reduce the pay of the state's budget by 4.3 billion dollars, a reduction that will be of particular interest to the large production. Only these two are affecting the income of 11.3 billion a year. This money could be used for all the people of the country, to build up the subversive transport system, instead of taking a foreign loan and then sending the bill to the public. The people's party say no to roads. Stop oppressing those who have nothing. It is the proper priorities. The people's party strongly protests the masked interest care that the government runs to protect those who have everything at the expense of those who have nothing. The banks can afford to pay the bank tax. It can afford to pay full prices for access to our resource. Poor people cannot afford to pay road taxes, tolls, or other fees or anything else that increase the burden of money that is insurmountable to them even now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u17	A respectable president. At a convention meeting on December 19, 2017, there was a special discussion about the # quality of the Obscurial, #metoo. Members of all members of the council were included, and speakers condemned a predominant situation, requiring that men take the initiative to improve their mental attitude among men and thus promote a better society. Among speakers, there was a rich agreement to reject all forms of violence and violence toward women. As a result, there was a change in the ethics of members of the Parliament, including those of the United States. ... ina report, with the permission of the president: It is therefore natural and justified, in view of the demands made, that in the ethics of the general council, the principle is shown that members of Congress commit themselves to contribute to creating a healthy working environment within a congregation, which is free of sexual harassment, harassment, and other incompetent conduct. At the same time, it is the duty of each senator to reject such conduct... The HeForshe movement was pushed out four years ago by the United Nations, by the actress Emma Watson, who encouraged men to act. Then, Minister of Foreign Affairs Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson announced on March 16, 2016, that Icelandic men were initiatived and would be to imitate in the HeForShe campaign. It asks: What can you do? The answer is simple: When you witness sexual violence and harassment, take hold of situations. Recently, I bought a hat from UN Women, and it says: "Do you know that every third woman in the world is sexually violent? UN Women in Iceland presents a new French violent hat. By walking with the violent hat, I promise to rise up against sexual violence always everywhere. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u18	Mr. President. I was at a meeting earlier in the University of Reykjavík about the 25th anniversary of the important contract, the EEA Convention. It put the highest power there. Minister of Foreign Affairs presented a very strange political explanation about the EEA that even the Münhause Münchhausen would have been quite proud of. The more the minister speaks, the more he sees it, and it is serious that his policy in foreign affairs is not based on Icelandic interests but is primarily intended for a home bridge in the Independence Party. This is of utmost importance, as the worldwide situation is now around the globe. If it is a real servant's will to be careful of the most important commercial and international contract in Iceland, he should have his own credit for it, for example. To come in here, Cologne, to follow the third energy package. He should dare to follow after the EEA deal. Now, or to encourage e.g. Marine and agricultural ministers and others to follow the results of the EFTA Court, whether it is for the import of fresh or other products. No, it is not. These days, it is not suitable for sound and image to go together. It's not fit for the grass root of his own party. But it is also serious when it comes to caring for Icelandic interests on the basis of Baltrexit. When it comes to that, the Ministers of the Government, like the Foreign Minister, seem to be doing it. Education Ministers, try to be more ◯Bfenit-ert-ert than the Bgrets themselves in the UK. According to the minister of foreign affairs, Baltrexit was to have countless opportunities. Still, there is no answer. No questions from the Cradle Council or anyone else, no committee, let alone the highest. Prime Minister. As you can see, there is no plan for the government, and there are only 50 days left to believe that the British will abandon the potential EU. What about Icelandic interest in fishing and increasing transport in Europe? What about the fact that the Secretary of Education is not giving any advance on behalf of the Icelandic student in Britain while her colleagues in Denmark and Norway continue to encourage the studio and continue to do so on the basis of caution? [[The president calls.]] Where are you taking care of Icelandic interests in connection with Baltrexit? Not with the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u19	Mr. President. After the #methoo revolution. After the # Obscurial, where Icelandic politicians called for us men to take responsibility in politics, we react with sexual harassment that they have been subjected to. After a special discussion. paritaprevir About a year ago, Friðbjörg Flanders, the Elíasdóttir of Elias, began in December. After the barbershop convention we held at the council, where we were contacted by experts, a law judge to explain to us what sexual harassment is, what sexual harassment is. We all know that class what it is. Then we will hold at a great conference in which all members of Congress promise a relief and a review, and eventually the prime committee proposes a decree to change the moral order and to change the spirit to the council. In the motion that all members of the hall agreed, the proposal was agreed to agree with 58 votes in the Senate, saying that, by permission of a president, ◯ members commit themselves to contribute to creating a healthy working environment within a body, which is free of sexual harassment and sexual harassment [...] Also, it is the duty of each member to refuse such practices... It's not enough to say these things, you've got to stop them too. It's not enough to keep quiet. This is what we promised. This is what we all signed. Yet, the head of the Environment and Transport Committee, who performed such behaviors in a Clabar - and I'm sure I couldn't have what he said after him in the platform without beingrated by the President - not getting aside. Not in a position of trust for his party. [[The president calls.]] He can continue to be a member of the House of Congress, it's just the council that decides. He doesn't have to take a trust in the Council, in the Generals. [[The president calls.]] This is the situation we face. [[The president calls.]] It is only the Central Party or the rest of the committee that can do something about it. I will follow up with any member of the Committee who has discussed this matter and will ask them if they will fulfill it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u20	The president asks why. Senators, watch out for deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u21	A respectable president. It has to be said that the Icelandic public has very limited access to the work being done within the Generals' walls. While we still wait for a new constitution, based on the bill of administration, where there are very important laws on the national court of speech, it would be most wish for us who are working here to increase our emphasis on using the technology available to provide the public with access to our work within the council and the environment in which we work. In most parts of the world, technological innovations are taking their place in different countries. The induction of new technologies changes both the way the council operates as well as the culture within it. Congresss using technical solutions can be linked to those they work for, the public in the country, in a way that would have been impossible even a few years ago. With the development of social media, the possibility of Congress is growing to enable the public and to gain discernment from him. As noted earlier, we are still waiting for a new constitution, which contains this national legal right, which may have come in handy in the process of transport. For information on the work of the Parliament, members of Congress, and even digital calls, you can consult the British Parliament. A general assembly should set an example of itself and do things similar to that of the British Parliament. Last December. was the centre of technical innovation at the council of the International Assembly of IPU for E Parliament. There came Brazil, Chile, Portugal, Zambia, plus the European Parliament itself. This should be our primary role in digitalization of our work and should make our workplace a more visible and accessible place for all, whether they are living in Escafó, Sigundur, Reykjavík, or Deli. We need to give people insight into what we do here and how we work. This can be done with the development of technology, as stated earlier, and with a simple process that makes it more understandable to those to whom they are important. This is something we should all take to heart.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u22	A respectable president. In the 5th. The General Code says, by permission of the President: The members of the Council shall serve as members of the Commonwealth: d. strive to create a healthy environment in their work within the council, as well as everywhere, where they do their jobs in which they reject any sexual or sexual harassment, harassment, or other disrespectful behavior. There are various forms of sexual violence. An abusive speech cannot be embalmed into bad conduct because it is when we accept the responsibility and the consequences of the bacteria. Sexual and sexual violence can be grouped into several phases. The first step is to be played out by women with sexual speech, since they are usually embalmed to another two; women who can sleep with or who can't sleep with. In this way, human and other spiritual qualities are torn apart from women. They're just bodies. Persuasion of legalistic violence against minorities This makes the next stage of violence, physical violence, possible. Silence is the best friend of the violent man. The silence has been interrupted. Whether it is WHO or any other workplace, all of us need to take responsibility for our words and actions. The movement, with President's permission, has expired - time has shown so much difference. Let us stop sweeping sexual violence under the carpet. If we do not, our words on the importance of the equality struggle are meaningless. A respectable president. The silence has been interrupted. The time for violent people has expired.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u23	V.E.G. President. We're having a heart-to-heart conversation in the country. They are at a delicate level, and the government's means for solving their choice of conversation can be resolved in a way that earners can enjoy and that society will live up to the progressives that will be tolerated. It has been called upon in this discussion that the government, the government, introduces or exploits these discussions, which could cause matters to resolve. Iceland's late bank made its move today by keeping the normal operating growth into a cool economy, and at the same time the bank manager revealed that the Secret Bank had both support and aims to grow in terms of failure to develop in terms of the Seymour Bank. This morning's newspaper quotes the chairman of the VR, with permission of the U.S.A. President: ▪ The constant threat of growth, and really maintaining this enormous interest level, is a constant pressure on the fee because people somehow have to live under this ridiculous interest, this ridiculous interest policy... Mr. President. The late bank does not take part in adjusting this situation. The government does not seem to be doing anything to take, for example. The price of housing, so that the government and the Councilman are not just turning riches into this struggle, but throwing sticks at the fire. This is not the first time that the little bank manager with the matches shows up with bomb or gas bombs in his shriveled talks. [[The president calls.]] Now, it would be time to lower the management growth of good people to help that this is going to be a suitable bargain.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u24	Mr. President. I would like to draw attention to the systematic problems that seem to exist in the facilities of those living outside the capital area when there are various sources of strength and distribution in different branches. As noted in the answers to my inquiries last year to the halllains, the part of the country's territory is a little private. It's coming even. published by the Institute of Technology and, as shown in the newspaper editorial of Stara Bird earlier this week, it is even shown in the intervention of the artist castor, or by permission of a president: This means that, in its short case, either applications from the country are generally not good enough or that farms and genders are not taken into account at the time of the selection. The total number of applications from the country's region also means that either the facilities for national arts are not good enough, artists in the country do not feel that they have anything to do with the fund or that they all run south before applying. If there is a legal home in the capital area where a desire for artistic creation is needed, then the theory also falls apart from the unhamed nature that blows the hearts of the Icelanders of artistry. Maybe after all, it's just a glider. Or art University. In addition, women write either better graphic art applications or men write better writing applications or more consideration for premeditated ideas of who knows what. Either our prejudices about sex and our dwellings are simply right - or they are wrong. Mr. President. Whatever the reason, whether applications outside the capital area are generally not good enough, whether or not there are actually systematic prejudices against applications outside the capital area, then it is clear that we must do something to change this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u25	Mr. President. On Thursday, we spoke here at the council hearing on health policy proposals until 2030. It says that Iceland's Medical Insurance will provide health care, which is based on need analysis and will depend on the needs of the inhabitants of the country. In this need analysis, it is important to also take into account external factors and conditions that vary geographically, e.g. the number of tourists and tourist attractions, the summer house, and the distance between places. At the end of the analysis, we will have to enable Iceland's health insurance to provide services according to the existing analysis. If we look at the situation of nursing homes, we could not extend a framework deal with the company's welfare services and the European Union for nursing homes by the New Year's Eve. There have been analyses of state specifications for operations, but contracts of Iceland's Medical Insurance don't cover long enough for negotiations to be met. So the situation is that Iceland's Medical Insurance published a new currency for 2019 on December 21, which included extensive and radical changes without a long-term report on the nursing home. Since 2004, payments have taken into account changes in the nursing weight of the household according to a specific RIG score. The Constitution of Iceland's Medical Insurance for 2019 is not expected to increase as a result of an increase in nursing weight, but to the same level of payment as it was in 2018. Despite the increased weight of nursing because of people who are weaker than they used to be, there is no greater payment. Also, there was a change in the work programme on a so - called small scale load, a team of workers evaluating its future structure but has not completed their work and had not been discussed with the changes made in a new currency. The above changes result in a decrease in the progress of the ran - by - the - sky movement to a certain nursing home of about tens of millions of dollars in 2019 C.E. It is quite clear that it is very difficult for the home to maintain the same service in nursing and medical care according to the same circumstances. We need to act on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u26	A respectable president. I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to celebrate the decision made by the Icelandic government to temporarily support Guaidór, the democratic Court of Justice, the President of the Unauthorized General of Venezuela. The situation in this country has been bad for a long time, so to speak, mild, and we see once again the shipwreck of socialism in action. Socialism has always been and will always come upon the common people. It is no exception. Some three million have fled. Drugs and food are available only to government chosen friends. Schools and health care cannot work. Political opposers of the government are imprisoned and tortured, and those who are good are friends and family members of the government. In the land, there is chaos. And to make matters worse, the government has ignored the legitimate demands of the public for democratic elections, and the current president is acting like a dictator, as he has in recent years. This trend has a long lead, and despite much natural resources, such as oil and a fertile land for food production, is a famine in the land, a hunger on an offer of ideologies that have always had bad consequences for the common people. A respectable president. It is a pleasure to know that the Icelandic government has organized Western states and declared support for the future president of the United States as temporary president. Thereafter, it is only right for an election in the country. It's our hope that they vote normally and finally reflect the will of the people of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u27	V.E.G. President. Last night there was a debate about the transport programme, the largest case of environmental and transport committees in this ideal period. A proposal to make fundamental changes is presented in the opinion of the greater part. It is a pleasure to see that as large a matter as it has been, under the direction of the Central Party, it leads out of the mess it was in. When I talk about the problems of the case, i.e. A transport plan, of course, was on the subject of a vision published in the contributionable budget of a transport minister proposed in the fall, a plan that assumed that vital tasks, such as the Smokey Way, the Southland Road, and the Westland Road in the city of Towns, would not have been completed until 15 ulcers years ago. During the next 15 years, construction in the capital area would have become very low. Part of the basic road system on the West would have been on dirt and dirt for the next 20 years. The northeast area would have been so unsettled by a garden. What I want to say here in particular is that it is important to keep it in place that now the roads are not being implemented. It's a work that will take place in the spring and possibly fall. This need to be specifically stressed that we reevaluate the general cost, i.e. oil, gas and automobile taxes need to be assured that such as taxation does not add additional charge to car owners. The requirement is a reduction in the number of publicised pay. It is also important to note the need for a full review of current public fees to be paid by automobile owners.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u28	Mr. President. We're a little used to speaking here as if it's mostly the big solutions, which are so complex that it's so difficult to achieve a more decent landing that deserves our attention, our whole time, our discussion, and our energy. Our clients, the common people, are dealing with all kinds of issues every day, and when they need them, they also have our support left behind in these matters. I have recently watched a disabled person's struggle to enjoy self - righteous driving. For some time, the person has lived in a nursing home because of his disability and has used the driving services of the disabled. Then comes the 67th birthday. Then, like for magic, this person is not entitled to the disabled. It refers to the nursing home. The nurse says: No, we don't pay. You can what? It points to the disabled. So, in addition to limited services, impossible and unacceptable circumstances, a person needs to live by having conflicting answers when looking for solutions. The problem is thus placed in the arms of those to whom the system is to help. Today, we can never create a system that responds to all circumstances and human diversity at all times and everywhere, and that is understandable. But we can do better, and while we're fixing this systematic flaw, we can create a society that prefers the cause of the person when the system says no. It simply needs to be fixed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u29	A respectable president. From those who wish to prevent it, with all efforts, to arrive in Iceland's Member States' negotiations with the European Union, the nation will be informed as to what might follow the possible membership of the British's Bgret-slash would like to show that the relationship cannot be eliminated if a man at another level stepped in there. This is the most persistent man, for the highest form. The minister of the country's affairs in this chair. The lesson, then, is to be that no full involvement is to be mentioned. Divorce is always difficult, but it does not say that we are going against marriage. It is difficult to resign from associates, but this does not mean that no company can ever be joined. Englishmen seem to expect them to resign from the EU, to abide by the rights of such membership, but to be freed from the duties involved. In other words, walking out of the European Union is no problem, but it must be done as well. It means you're out of it. Added to this are the unique difficulties of the English because of their neighbors in Scotland and Ireland, who see no reason to resolve the relationship, and the European Union has cared for the interests of the English, which the old imperialists feel natural. The lesson that a small nation should draw from all of this is that although the European Union is indeed not a paradise in which all wishes come true and butter come true, it is the understanding and cooperation of the nations that are there, but not to those who are not, and thus a good place for vulnerable little nations to the violence of larger nations. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u30	A respectable president. We'll talk about a government transport program. It's kind of risky to keep up with the discussion as if it's been so far. There's been a lot of confusion about all sorts of technical exports, how much this is really a great transport program, the first priority, and the first priority is all. Still, the message follows that if something is to be done on the southwest corner, extra pay is needed and it has not yet been implemented how or how much to pay. I was wondering a little bit about the politics on this case. Here we speak - let us speak clearly - tax increases. These are tax increases. I don't want to talk about when it's payback and when it's tax returns. It is obvious, and we all agree on this, that transport and new investors need to be greatly improved. There is an enormously important and expensive project in the southwest corner, and there is a way for them to be financed. The problem is, that path has not been discussed. In fact, two of the three governmental parties opposed her completely in leading the last election, stating clearly that it would not be an option, but without a discussion of the sword, they have swallowed up the dream of the independent party's transport minister in the matter, so to speak, why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son. An investment of 160 billion over a period of five years cannot be overlooked, as well as an additional 60 billion for which the population of the southwestern corner is significant. There is something special when it is stated without suggesting that there is a top priority and that all of the most important projects are to be left behind. All the main activities in which traffic weight is highest, where safety issues are most upset, where the problem rate is increased, where travel time is the longest, are left behind, and should wait for a result of road expenses. It is absolutely unannounced to discuss such an important assignment without having an opportunity to complete the work we are going to do. It is not permissible to lay up with a defective document, which came from the highest. A secretary of transportation, in which nearly all the donated funds were placed in a transport program, were provided only to the southwest corner. The message for the council is, you just have to figure out how to finish the rest. It is impossible for the head of the board to offer this matter to be completed at the council without simply answering the question of how we are going to finance it. Who's paying? How does it come about in different ways on the southwestern corner, on the inhabitants of different homes on the southwest corner, on the inhabitants of different incomes? And so you could continue to count. This hasn't been discussed. There is no progress due to the majority of the environment and transport committees on how to work with them key questions. Who will pay and what heavy load will it be to these groups? I think it's a very cold message to people in the neighboring communities of the capital area, such as the Smokenes, the area of Aquilini, in the citynes, and so on, those who go to the capital area daily. There is a great deal of talk about benefits, that people ask so much. I ask: How does it save me in travel hours to drive between Reykjavík and Seleucos, although it is finished by double between Whoas and Selephos? So shall I pay again for the course that has already been built with public funds? The same could be said for residents in Smokeynesville. What would it save me in a trip time to finish the double in the final section of the city against my having the intention of paying for all my projects again? Who is reasonable in it? How do these things affect people who even have? because of the lack of housing and high housing prices in the capital area, the previously mentioned rural areas have been increasingly increasing in recent years, including because of such evolution, but do you get to work every day in the capital? A person who drives between Selephos and Reykjavík on a blank car may spend some 1,200 dollars. In gasoline a day on the way back and forth. Based on the ideas that road charges could be approximately 300 c., but once again we've taken very little care of it, we'd add another 600 bucks. for the daily travel costs of this person to and from Selephoss. I think the inhabitants of these rural communities have the right to see the developed ideas of the administrative element before they and the members of the hall will take their stand on the priorities of transport. It is obvious that the transport program is not fully developed. It is false to say, let alone that the priorities have been fair and proper when all the most important projects are separated and that the message has to be waiting for them to be paid for. There is predestination in the argument of the greater part that there is no other way. It's just bullshit. There are plenty of other ways to finance these important projects. The state has a ownership share in two of the largest business banks in the country, with its own money in it of up to 300 billion dollars. We're talking about the investments of over 50 to 60 billion. It would easily be possible to begin a possession release, as is government policy, thus turning the funding tied in banks to capitals tied on important infrastructures. That's the perfect way. If, as presented here, tax increases are needed, we can also be serious about whether other methods are effective, whether other taxes may be more suitable, and perhaps - God forbids us from that discussion - we could be talked about the rational priorities of money when the government announces an expansion in its four-year term period of 190 billion dollars. The annual expenses of the state funds. Perhaps we could find a place there for the lack of 5◯10 billion a year in order to finance these projects successfully. It is good to remember that a road in the land is one of the basic duties of the State, just as it is the basic obligation of the State to run a good and powerful health system, a good and powerful educational system. Are we conveying the message that nothing can be done in the structure of the health system unless the user charges rise? No. Are we giving students the message that there is no way to invest in the education system unless there is a huge increase in school expenses? No. We set priorities for our community, and that's not why we're excluded from the road system. This brings to mind when the price is due. Basically, the person standing here is not against the charges. They can apply in many cases. We have a successful example of charges. The Vaults were carried out that were not available, but they cut short the way for the population and saved much more money than they paid for the expenses they paid. It was all very successful. The tunnel was paid up on time, returned to the State at the right time, actually ahead of schedule. It was an enormous step in the transport of the people. We have another example, Vadalah, who meets in many ways the same basic conditions, shortens the way, saves citizens the cost of driving. This may not be a very successful project, but we will see how this will work out and whether it will be successful to meet the current expenditures. But again, the basic requirement is: A project that was not available to attack and that was not being promised any money from a transport program, but it was rushed in this way, the people paid dues but spent considerable money in return. For example, it could be an example of construction, looking ahead, fulfilling the same conditions. An action that is not and that has not been on our plans so far. In fact, it is not clear whether there is an agreement to attack it, but if that decision is made, it could fit very well into this target model. If we look at the Smokey Way, the South Way to Selephoss, and the east to Selephos, the Elder of the Year Bridge, and to provide transportation from the Western capital area, all of this is projects that have been planned for years. This is all a project that candidates for the Generals have promised voters for years in those elections, and never in context with a discussion of road charges until now. Here, the main part of the government is simply betraying its campaign promise. The head of the management section is packed with some round-up package of necessary activities, which should be first in order to say, "This improvement in the road measures can only be received in addition. I have every reason, Mr. President, that we take the time to discuss it. We should not be discussing this in the time pressure set to complete a transport plan in the way that is now proposed and to wait and hope that we will be able to complete the reasonable conclusions of the funding of this most important process that the transport programme should be taken and to the highest degree. Of course, a travel minister should have found an acceptable solution before implementing a transport program. A greater proportion of the transport committee should at least have caught that ball and finished their job, but it did not succeed. There are other factors to consider and to consider how selective we are already making major changes in the legal or judicial procedures of the council. I'm not afraid of change. I always think it's an opportunity to change. But the discussion needs to be handled carefully, a problem to be done when it is time to make major changes in society. There is a new means of financing at a road assembly, which is full of reasons for serious discussion. After all, it is necessary to resupply our operating system. This is clearly as we aim to improve energy exchange and as fuel and diesel trucks decrease in traffic, fuel costs and carbon costs will not be met by the necessary constructions in the road system. We realize that we need to discuss how we are going to make a contribution for the future. It would be appropriate that we have the future funding of the road system simple, efficient, and reasonable for all the people of the country, that we all paid in the same way, not to the inhabitants of the southwest corner: where the majority of the traffic is here, you pay the majority of the fuel fees, the more carbon taxes, but also to pay their dues, at least. This will be more aggressive to the population in that area. Consider the discussion, as well as the proselytism of the future. It is more than likely, we look to other countries by example, that such currency will involve some kind of mileage, that users will pay according to their use on the road system. This adds up to carbon costs, to further stimulate transport energy exchange. But there is a need to talk about energy exchange, energy policy, and our priorities and ambitions in climate change. This important document as a transport plan, as well as a fund or a traffic payment system, is to be compared to our goals there, and expenses do not. They lie down in the same way on an expensive car and an inexpensive car, a electric car, and a cheap car. They give us nothing more in our ambition for energy exchange, in our ambition to have a positive incentive to take in traffic exchange so that people switch to environmental energy sources. I think we should take more time for that discussion. It is also very interesting in this context of all that public transportation, i.e. The largest task for public transportation, the city line, is left behind more and less incomplete. There are 800 million prepared for the most important transport project in the capital area. The lack of ambition in much of it, the ambition of the government of that matter, is absolute. If we look at the overall value of the projects that need to be done, if we look at the founding roads to and from the capital area, and in addition to the necessary improvements needed to take place within the capital area and invested investments around the city line, we are probably talking about total investing in the order of 100 to 110 billion. Why don't we put our hands on that assignment out of some ambition and finish it? Do funding and getting clear lines in the approval of the government to participate in the most important transport reforms in the southwest corner, the most important and the largest steps we can take to reduce emissions from traffic in the capital area? It's an ambition. It gives some perspective. We could, in the process, put together a careful discussion of the future budgeting arrangements in the whole country so that we all pay in a fair and natural way for our use in the road system. I'm not making any comment that most of the funds in a transport program are being spent on road construction in the country. It seems that in a large, vast country of few inhabitants, it will always be, there will always be a relatively high percentage of our roads to be built up in many parts of the country. On the other hand, I make a significant comment on how the southwest corner is left unsettled by a garden in absolute uncertainty as to whether and how it will be possible to attack needed transport on the southwestern corner of the country. I make significant comments that we are able to make such fundamental changes without any analysis of their impact, how they affect the population, whether they vary depending on the population, whether they are effective in our other goals, such as when it comes to environmental, energy exchange. This is an incredible failure in public policy. We can't make decisions like this by snapping a finger, just because we thought we'd sort it out in November. This is not an acceptable practice. It is not an acceptable practice to say then: "Sit in calm, there will be a bill in March or May, where you will be allowed to discuss the charges. Other nations spend a few years preparing basic changes so that they are really careful. You can even say that. In Norway, for example, it is not clear how traffic will be met, and Norwegians are obsessed with reevaluating what they intend to do in the future. As mentioned, we could not, as we have been able to do. in the case of fish farming, even learning something from Norwegian experience, instead of just picking up their old arrangement? Why don't we try to be ambitious, careful, looking for a somewhat longer future, and living for things that enable them to stand somewhat stable for years, even for decades, if well worked? It would be something new in Icelandic politics if we did not always have to stop the mistakes of our former years. There is good reason to do so. The fact is, it does not take very long to realize that there are other means of financing. We have time to complete that discussion, e.g. The problem is that it is not a political stand in the government. In spite of the promise to begin and even put it in a committee that winds up from the unprecedented possession of the state of the banking system here, we know that there is no reason to do anything about it with the government. If there were any sense in the government, we would simply take a preliminary decision on the 2019 and 2020 transportation plans and return this plan to the minister and ask him to finish it. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u31	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. The roads were discussed, which are essential for safety and traffic weight and so on. This has been observed in analyses, e.g. for the city line, despite our 100 billion dollars. Road construction in the capital area will increase traffic density and average travel time. It has also been shown in this discussion that the foundation of the roads is that the length of travel will be reduced to the benefit of the drivers and that paying the prenup will not cost as much as it would have cost if the project had not been completed. As noted, though, these projects are absolutely necessary. You can't talk about doing nothing. As a result, it cannot be determined that if we do nothing at all, the cost would be so great, and we made enough money to go through road expenses with 100 billion dollars. We'll be at least going to the 50 mentioned in that analysis. For the perks only: Hv. A senator mentioned a 600 - year term. To and from Selephoss. Then I guess. A senator is referring to the average tax used in a report returned to the transport minister, which spoke of the average cost of 300◯600 k., the average cost for each individual trip. As the scope of the project is about 1/3 lower than in that report, it's not 300 to 1,600 dollars. I'm talking about 200 to 4, that's what I'm talking about. for each average trip. It is said to record the price at the end of time. Based on the diagnosis, this should be 400 K. It could be up to 800 bucks. To and from Selephoss, both ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u32	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. It's absolutely true, and there's no dispute here, that these are absolutely essential measures and road repairs that we need to attack. First and last based on security measures, as discussed with the Smokejanes Way and the Southland Road, the importance of separating road policy, the making of mishappens of keyholes on that route, etc. These are expensive projects, but they are absolutely necessary. But they do not significantly shorten our time of travel. It's not a shortcut. This is the same route as driving, so there is no significant reduction in fuel consumption, nor will there be any savings for the population of these areas that, for example, will be available. The people of Acdéri and the citynes experienced the idea of being given the Half - land tunnel, not having to drive for Hölfland. It's totally obvious. There is no such thing as material gain. Of course, the work is absolutely vital, ending a marvelous security issue. About a cheeky whale. A senator's cost: Of course, this depends on the total cost. I beat it from the calculators I've been given on the Southland road roads to pay them the way between Whoas and Selephos and the Alf - Alf - Alf - Avenger Bridge, 16 billion execution or so, with the cost of the road system, would probably be nearly 500 to six thousand dollars. On the move, more than 200 to 400 kr. This, of course, is a mean total exposure to traffic and depends on a traffic weight. It is by far the best on the Smokey Way, where it would be easier to split a large amount of projects based on the price on that course on its own. But these are still very unscrupulous ideas on the part of most of it. Therefore, I believe it is urgent that this will be discussed to the end and that the people in this area will be aware of this, before the council decides to act in this way, how much this will cost, and who will pay. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u33	A respectable president. This is a very important point because if the result is not reached in this road plan, which I don't know whether it works - it's a bit controversial, and it's the only option available here - there's bound to be a delay in all the plans that are going on here. Then we will be stuck with this transport program we are considering and putting up here at the council right now, with this clearly incorrect priorities in which the most important projects with regard to security and traffic weights are hardly part of the plan. I think it's really serious, and I'd like to hear what the rest will be like.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u34	Mr. President. What an interesting question! Senator. It is, of course, that politicians are geniuses in making bad things sound good. This document is referred to as one of the most spectacular milestones, the first of which is a full - time, high - priority transport program. We just skipped all the expensive projects, but we're not talking about it. But it helps with priorities and funding just to skip all the costs and say, " We'll just take a look at this later. ' Of course, that's what's being done about it. All the most expensive projects necessary to attack, from this same priorities, if we rely on security, traffic weight, travel time, etc., are left behind. It's said, "Let's take a look at this on the occasion when we've found out where we're gonna get more money. " I think it is clear in this that the secretary of transportation should naturally take this matter back and finish it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u35	Mr. President. It was interesting to hear that talk. It is now that these 12,000 miles of road system that are here have not been properly maintained by traditional means, and then I will take into account the collapse and all of it. If there were in this country a 151/2 million cars of that size would likely be different with taxes and automobile expenses. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator spoke of the daily travel expenses of a man who drives from Selephoss to Reykjavík and spoke of only the cost of gas. I moved here very inspiredly, yesterday, as I tried to explain that the cost of a car is in the range of 60 to 120 cents. ... ona mile. That means, on this 60-mile route, 3,600How,200 bucks. In view of this, should we not consider the tax? Stop talking about the gas waste alone? Three hundred,400 k., I'm not going to nail it down, but I believe the benefits will come back. Well, that's the safety issue. A senator mentioned, the time to be saved, cut out of a car that is saved, and let us say some gas that is saved. In view of the actual cost of driving, this is the ideologies of this way. They drive this way, and this noble man who just drove there, he runs this way whether it's due or not. I want some of it. A senator to explain why he does not carry the actual cost of a car when he is doing this with us here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u36	Mr. President. You're absolutely right. A senator is certainly more than just the fuel that comes into the vehicle's operating expenses. The car is decapitated, insurance, car expenses, tirebars, maintenance, and so on. Some of it is a fixed cost, no matter what the road, like insurance. We can say that the basic cost of the car is partially fixed, so that the cost of each road drops as we drive more miles. But I think most of us are also recommending our daily car expenses, i.e. The gas we have to pay for, of course, weekly, not the car we buy every year. And this does not change the rate of the cost of this expense force to the same extent. Let's take this person who drives between Selephos and Reykjavík daily until and from work, say that it is 220 days a year or about where they drive to the capital, except for some other cases. By the way, it seems to me that the cost of transportation increases by $150,000,200,000. and I'm no better than that whether I count the insurance with or not in that list. This, in turn, greatly increases the cost of reaching work. You're right about what you're doing. This person will not resign from his job in Reykjavík, for that would be due. He'll probably drive on to Reykjavík and back. It'll only be more expensive, it'll be less switchable for the individual or the family after the travel expenses. We need to be reasonable about this. It is not necessarily possible for people who drive this long distance every day to and from work to make easy use of other means of transportation based on the flexibility they may need. We should take a minimum of time to examine in whole terms the effect on this group, since this is obviously the proportionate group that will pay most of this cost. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And to that end: The length of the road does not diminish.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u37	The president asks members of the Parliament to respect a talk lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u38	Mr. President. Of course, there is no shortcut, but there is one thing that changes to the double, perhaps all the way into Reykjavík, perhaps the Bavourneck, etc. What Is Security Worth? We're talking about spending thousands of dollars driving this way, as we're talking about hundreds of dollars on a scale and comparing the curses to the profits. I don't understand that answer, and it's sitting there. Climate benefits, less pollution, more public transportation off two-way roads. The whale of the fact that fuel truckers pay double, if we say so, by means of taxation and fuel fees. That's not what electric car owners do. There is a source of encouragement. The carbon costs continue to work. The saying that there will be no special climate effects is just wrong. Of course, the future will be that it will be paid every mile [6 km] of the road of an electric truck or of an entombed car at hand.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u39	Mr. President. I'm kind of going to have to say first about all these improvements that are put under the hat of roads, i.e. Of course, the smokeland road, the Southland road, the Westland road, is the most important factor in making the major traffic jam. The solution lies in a combination of the urban structure, the huge task waiting for, and the necessary transportation improvements in the road system, not just those connected with the city line, but to improve the flow through the streets of the whole city or the capital area as a whole. There is very little to care about in this transport program. Once again, the capital area is left out, which has been in investments for a decade. Once again, it is said: "Well, if you want something, you have to wait around or pay at least more. " [[The president calls.]] No matter how you look at it, it's a total lack of ambition on the part. [[The president calls.]] I think it should only be completed in this whole discussion and how to finance it in general before we complete this transport program.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u40	The president's opinion is so strong. A senator has not heard a president ask for a reason. Because members of the council respected a talk period, they renew their request for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u41	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Víglundsson of Wormundsson's talk on a transport plan. I felt that he was doing quite a bit of work to make it appear that he didn't agree with the charges. However, here we are considering, since the main outcome is that guests who came before the committee agreed with the priorities set, while all parts of the country were clearly required on all types of roads that would require further implementation. So there's a considerable powder, we can say, spend in the new opinion of the committee, we finance, and most of the items are spent on road expenses, just to encourage a discussion there. In a move to a transport program, it says, by permission of the President: The implementation of new financing initiatives and the necessary bill needs to be done with the aim of speeding up projects in the programme and creating financial space for new projects. That's what I'm talking about. A senator disagrees with this goal? I'd also like to ask, " How long does it take to discuss social charges? ' For a considerable period of time, the discussion has been under way. We can trace ideas a long way back if it's gone, up to a decade, but maybe it's been growing in the last two years. Then how long will it take to prepare the transfer? And finally: Did the senator provide suggestions on improving transport spending during a financial discussion?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u42	Mr. President. I'll try to take better care of the time limit according to President's tip. I didn't have to do much work to oppose this deduction because this is simply funding a general road operation that has been promised here years, and even decades, in some cases, with no discussion of a road charge to finance it. It's just part of the government's obligation to do the basics. Let us, then, speak honestly if we need extra funding in order to do that duty. You also need to talk about maintenance of the roads, where the road itself measures the quality of the road as a basis for meeting the maintenance needs of 60 billion. We spend 10 billion a year, less, in maintenance. Then let's just talk about it if there's more money missing into this whole system and how we're going to face a future round charge. I'm not holding back from the discussion, and I'm not going anywhere but from supporting road charges where I think they can be relevant, since these are projects that are not planned to go elsewhere and have this direct advantage for users to cut down significantly or save expenses otherwise. It's just that there's nothing for the projects that are being proposed in this context. Let's just talk about the overall financing of the system. How long does it take? I think we're going to have to see the bottom of this -- what exactly will it cost, how will it be implemented, what will be the ultimate price? - before you give it up like this. I'd just like to put my arm around this whole pack of transportation and say, "Here's the size. I mentioned earlier that it would probably take about 110 billion if the foundations were to be taken and from the capital area with and necessary city lines. We will find them just a reasonable way to finance it along with the other necessary adjustments discussed here. But it is also all right to give voters a little more time to realize that two groups of three governments have refused this way until suddenly now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. Of course, it's all about the need for extra money. Therefore, I would like to reiterate my question: Have a why. A senator produced ideas or suggestions on supplementary transport in a financial program? I heard that he talked about government sales, which is one of the things listed in the committee's opinion that, if possible, it is possible, and circumstances for that. But it's not enough, either, if we go into it. In answer as long as possible. A senator yesterday granted me the only reason why I could not understand what was being interpreted as the reassignment of transport projects since its appointment in March. It was not clear from his speech today whether he was interpreting the plan that way. I just want to decide what the senator meant. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u44	Madam President. Thank you. A senator responds to his second. The short answer to the last question is: No, I did not insist that anything had been reassigned. All the most important projects were excluded, both at the highest level. Transporter and more of the Committee. It's just the same poor priorities for the projects in between. With regard to financing ideas: Yes, I've come up with ideas about how to finance it in another way, and that would be quite easy. If we sold one third of the money the state funds have bound in these two businesses, Iceland and U.S.A. Bank, you might assume that there are about 100 billion, at least. This would be sufficient for all of the projects mentioned here and for the successful completion of urban funding. It won't take so long to start moving in these banks because we're here talking about projects that will last over the next five years, at least, if not longer. This, of course, can be discussed in the financial agenda, of course, is to be expected in financial discussions, and this has not been done to date.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u45	A respectable president. It will not go unnoticed by those who drive through the highways of the country and are trapped in the traffic here at the southwest corner of the area, the urgent need for a campaign in the construction of the transport system. However, it is a little strange to be suddenly discussing these ideas without having imagined that what is on the table would come. Yes, it's great to speed up projects, it's okay to say that plans to 15 years have been made, but they're certainly not. When the time comes when we need to speed things up, when it is really necessary to speed up the project, it is still money. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for his excellent speech earlier. He had a lot to offer that I can say. It is pointed out how to finance the project. This new idea of the road taxes is like a wet barrel, I think, in the face of the public in this country. In fact, she's wearing the dress of the Independence Party completely from top to to toe. It's amazing to see it on the 20th anniversary of the left movement at a green proposal that it should, and with a government leader, issue that we are in that place now discussing increased spells on the public in the country. Tax and tax returns. You can call it a tax, you can call it a toll, you can call it anything. The fact is that in order to improve the public, the public, who already live in poverty, the public, who cannot afford to buy the fancy electrical car, the public who drive on the old gas canal, who still does not pollute the 66,000 tons of coal that are being burned in back each year, or the 45,000 tons of wood that have to be brought in by the forests of the world to burn into the farms. It's okay to talk about the carbon bill that gives us a lot of billions of dollars every year. It's been raised pretty well, because there's always talk of reducing pollution. But where does all this money go, the carbon money? Where are we gonna get the money? The bank tax of 7 billion, the fishing costs down 4.3 billion, a total of 11.3 billion. Now, the prime director, Hörður Arnarson, has recommended that he is unable to see better than in the years 2020/226,girdurization can easily pay interest in a wealth of 110 billion dollars. I ask: When we're thinking about setting priorities and being practical in the state, why are we talking about taking loans to speed things up? Why do we not use the money we already have and put our priorities in place? Why not take the money away from those who have it to those who have nothing? But the best thing about it now, when we're talking about taking a foreign loan to carry out our necessary road benefits, is that it is not possible to eliminate a cent against a dollar's disability. It takes too much, even though it is a natural world record. There is no group of people in the whole world who are affected by such losses and violations of human rights, as do the U.S. despots. But that's another story. It also refers to the high cost of all accidents, the threat we face at about 50 billion dollars. every year. This is about to increase the safety and transport of the environment. I was talking about land activation, I was talking about the 110 billion people who are talking about paying interest since 2020,226. Of course, land induction has been paying interest, and it had, for example, been paying for it. At a rate of 11.2 billion, over a year ago. The wealth has enjoyed interest on land retrieving as well as on the banks we share. I believe the public of this country, the nation, wants to use what we share even now and is making money. She's not thinking about phase one in the private development of the country. She's not thinking about personalization. Who should marry the entire hook? There is reason to take such a firm step. We received this in November last. All of a sudden, pops up something that may be a road tax, and I'll never call it a road tax. I completely agree with that as it is. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson mentioned earlier, concerning the excellent work of the Half - a - moment tunnel. That certainly was up to expectations, ending a project that was truly needed, and the need to go into it. Of course, the public was not satisfied with paying for the Halfjörður tunnel. It was the same with the beautiful Vella-hall tunnel. It takes only a few hundred dollars to go through the tunnel if the purchases are 100 trips at once, or 1,000 trips at once, or whatever. But who can pay for it? Who can pay for an inexpensive ride through the tunnel? Those who have the money, not those who lack it. That's for sure. It is always expensive to be poor, especially expensive in Iceland to be poor, in one of the most taxing countries on earth. There are more taxes to be invented today, although we have shared assets that do much better than prepare to build a road system that has been low for years in order of previous governments. Let us not forget that we get 3 million tourists a year who come here and drive that road. Let us not forget, rather, how the roads have crashed from large trucks that have soared on the roads, the nature of the problem, as the coasts have subsided. But where are the charges, tops? President? Where are the charges, for example. 2 million tourists? Even if it were only 2,000. Who would that be 4 billion? If it were 2.5 million tourists and a comet's fee, 2,000 would be. That would be 5 billion, what if it were 3,000 bucks? For 2.5 million tourists, that would be 7.5 billion bucks. Why always look in the pockets of the common people? Why is it always a matter of streaming further burdens on those who have to carry them least? I really don't have much to say. It's just clear. We know that the need is urgent. We know we need doubles on the Smokey Way, double everywhere. Walking all over the place. We'll see how the transport system is on the West Coast. We know that not even all the roads of the country have been crushed, not yet in 2019 C.E. It takes a lot of money, but it doesn't change the fact that we have it. The only thing we need is an efficient government of government, which prioritizes our resources for the people of the country, but not forever in behalf of the interests of which all the resources are afforded. Before we in Floki's people will at any given moment agree to discuss increased charges and further taxes on the population, we would like to send the ball to the government and ask them to consider the matter a little bit more carefully and get the funding to where it is, withdraw the decrease of the bank tax to 7 billion, simply give the big estate a chance to pay full price for access to our shared resource, so no more. I think, at the end of the day, we should be so busy that we could probably build a roof of glass over the Valley of Old age and plant plenty of palm trees and make Canary Islands, as it seems to be a dream. The mayors, but so many were those words.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u46	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland Land for this tour and the talk on the transportation program. I just wanted to ask you what. A senator who is very concerned about the terms of those who have lost it in the community - it has, in fact, been prominent in her activities here at the council: In the course of charges, the average cost of the Havenan tunnel has been reported to have been six hundred dollars. The trips, some paid 1,000, and those with discount cards paid less, but the average cost was 600 bucks. Now we are talking about the estimated average cost. There is no decline, and we know that public projects tend to be far more expensive than expected at the outset. However, according to the calculus we now have, the average cost is estimated from Reykjavík and the east at Selphos/What's going to be about 400 bucks, this average cost. Some pay a little less and some pay more. Counts 'em out. paritaprevir Sæland Happyland, this cost, 400 bucks. On the trip, 800 bucks. on a day - to - day basis, does the quality of life of those of the group she speaks of have to go to the capital, study, or work for health care every day?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Vala Helgadóttir for the answer. Yeah, I don't think that's a doubt. A person to be paid 218,000 k, e.g. an invalid renting or trying to pay off something to be called a roof over his head, does not even have food on his plate for the entire month. Every extra crown on it lays on it is too much. What this government should be doing is preventing poor people from taxing, people with less than 300,000 dollars. in alimony. Each dollar is a heavy load against this amazingly large group of people, whose government ignores it. Hv. A senator also mentions intermediate guards through the tunnel. The average price to be taken through the Válladle Corridor is about 700k. if the buyers are 70 trips, otherwise there's a lot more to pay. This same person, who lives in what is in the worst interest, needs to draw up 70,000 bucks. on one board to buy those 100 trips through the tunnel and pay for that 700 bucks. In fact, no matter how you look at it, it does not matter. The person who is not able to make ends meet and is fighting for the rest of the month, half of it on the noodles, and half on oatmeal, cannot add to a single crown, a respectable president, to road taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u48	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland Land for this clear and clear answer. I'd like to give you some cheers. A member of the Parliament, because they are no longer represented by the Environment and Transport Committee, to investigate and investigate the changes made to the parts of the committee, which ensure that the projects intended to speed up - necessary projects - which are necessary, we are all aware that they must take some necessary steps to ensure our security - will be paid from our common funds with taxes, so that those who can pay more money, as we try at least To have our income tax system. We also have proposals that large numbers of public transportation, both in the capital area and in neighboring communities, and that those who have to use them daily will receive substantial subsidies, i.e. that those who need to go to work and study and health care can get access to a good system, not so that they have to wait all day to go away, but that we are actually going to create a real culture system that supports not only the material but also the real choice for families, children a number of families, and for those who are thinking about the climate. I got it. I got it. To study these suggestions, a senator is ready to speak with her outside the council at any time. But it's something that's wrong. A senator might consider supporting him?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u49	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Vala Vólva Helgadóttir for her second answer and particularly thank her for this wonderful invitation. I'm filled with interest, and with us in Floki's, I'm allowed to study these matters completely so that we welcome this good invitation, that's no question. We are prepared to examine any benefits as long as the last teeth are not to be drawn from the poorest people in the land because they have not yet had the opportunity to go to the dentist, so to speak. But as I say, "Yes, thank you very much, ma'am. Senator, I appreciate it and will talk a lot about what the less part has to offer to a transport committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u50	Mr. President. If we look at the political scene when it comes to transportation, it is not too easy to remember that in the leading of the General election in October 2017, transport issues were very high. The key concept or at least one of the key concepts in the conversation of candidates and others in the leading of this campaign was built up and stood out of all the need to promote the infrastructure of the country. The word inside is a kind of code, meaning roads, harbors, and airports in most cases, perhaps fiber optics, but when it comes to it, the government's efforts in transport work prove to be 5.5 billion additional transport measures per year for three years. It should not be minimized in any way, but everyone will see how much money this money is worth. In the counterargument of a greater part of the transport committee, visitors were unanimously taking the lead in taking over national, maintenance, and new projects. It attributes the total need for investment between 350 and 400 billion dollars. This, then, can be compared to, the efforts of the government, which, once again, will not belittle in any way, and the amount there is stated in part to the transport committee. It is clear to everyone that the number of tourists traveling through the country has increased over the last few years, and the development of commercial life in the country has increased heavy transport through the country by increasing pressures and road erosions. I'll get to that later. The number of tourists in 2017 was 2.2 million, and they increased considerably last year, 2018. Of course, all this vast number of people exert tremendous influence on the transportation system, adds to the pressures, and is no wonder to think when more than 2.5 million people pass through the country's way each year. Business areas have grown in the country, and certain social practices have changed, population living in rural areas and urban areas are increasing. I agree with most of his opinion that there is an urgent need to deal quickly with the problems that have been raised in recent years. I have allowed myself to guess in some respects that this problem is something that might be called neglectful sin but is, in some respects, normal, or understandable, due to the economic breakdown that the nation experienced for a decade. Therefore, there is a need to work hard to improve the road system and transport in general as rapidly as possible, and to provide the basis for the practicality, climate goals, which have become accepted and accepted views, equality to the population and, most important, a security policy. Of course, searching for ways to speed up the most urgent means of transportation is vital. As is currently expected in Icelandic national administrations, there can be a slowdown in practical projects to form like engineering agencies and contractors, which can therefore be viewed as a suitable situation in the country to attack the structure of infrastructure. As noted, improved transport is well improved in order to promote progress in Icelandic and commercial life and thus in the rest of the economy. I would like to agree with the greater part, which puts special emphasis on looking realistically for new funding ways to facilitate transportation, improve safety, and speed for energy exchange. We're reviewing the general cities of traffic failure, i.e. oil and fuel costs, and then automobile taxes - less than natural taxation, it's a great jungle as known - need to ensure that a special currency such as road charge does not increase the costs of car owners over the profit available by facilitated and safe flow of traffic and improving the environment. This encourages rapid and long energy exchange. The majority also reminds us that the structure of public transport requires total reexamination as the process progresses, and energy exchange has moved forward. In the near future, this assignment will be met. Mr. President. I'll call attention to the advance of my partner outside the category that has a partnership with us, okay? paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason, who says that practical measures will be taken to speed up urgent transport improvements. In his advance, which is part of the opinion of the greater part, he makes it clear that the sum of road fees and inputs of discounters must be made clear and that the reduction in the rate of car owners must be stressed along with the recording of road fees. The money to be used should be placed into the current national fund, at least Partly, for transport implementation, including Name him the waterway. Finally, he says: "Far be it from those who have to go through many roadways to attend service to the capital. " Mr. President. I'd like to stop for a moment and mention a little bit more about the two points mentioned in this article. Well, first off, that's why. A senator in his warning of a national treasure. I'm fully aware that you're taking the risk of doing something a bit dangerous when you talk about him because you're at the highest. Secretary of finance has explained that the concept of national treasure is supported by certain ideologies. However, we, who might prefer to discuss matters on a practitional basis, on performance and transportation improvements, and on increased traffic security, would like to contribute, at least to that extent. I here, as far as this idea of a national fund on ideological grounds as it is said, its value may be increased in time, in view of the fact that we now have a subsidized transport system, which is in some respects a collapse, if it can be said so. Then, most important, I am referring to a situation in many parts of the country that has had to be carried over a number of traffic flows compared to what has happened before. Hence, there is good reason to discuss the timing of a national fund. In the years to come, a large amount of money will fall because of the energy issues involved in the processing of electricity. It has been observed that during the period of land induction, they feel that they can pay a great deal of money from their activities. This added income should become the backbone of the upcoming national fund. It may be that this income goes to build up the infrastructure in the country, the roads, the harbors, the airports, rather than to collect this money into some fund, which is actually difficult to see in the bill under the conditions above heads would be used. I agree for these reasons and others with what. A senator when he specifically mentioned in his advance national funds in connection with the funding of these projects discussed in the government's transport program and in the opinion of the greater part. On the one hand, I'd like to stop and say that whatever it is possible to say, it is, of course, the fact that the Hafjörður tunnel, the vast transport process, had never occurred except for its searching for new funding and the tunnel's natural backing. Best of all, it's been reported that the American pension fund, a U.S. teacher's pension, financed this tunnel with a bond that I believe was released to 23 years of age. As often happens, the traffic through the tunnel became higher than expected. So they made more money, and the loan was paid before the loan was finally paid. Because of my work, I had opportunity and reason to pass through these tunnels frequently, and I can carry it like so many others that it was easy to choose, when a man faced the cost of each one maybe going through the tunnel or less than 300 k. and compared it with the cost and time of going before the Hagland. Mr. President. The importance of transport safety will never be overemphasized. A young person's traffic security, especially on dangerous roads, is taking his first step in traffic, and he has to go about dangerous ways to attend school in many cases. Then I feel that it is necessary to agree that there is an urgent need to increase education in foreign tourists who are free to drive in Icelandic circumstances and even free to drive over head - to - head. It is of course not possible that foreign travel demand will be made when they take cars here. In general, I would like to give attention to the emphasis being placed on the government's transport programme on transport safety and the priorities of projects taking into account safety issues. Mr. President. In view of the increasing air traffic and the state of international airports, concern needs to be expressed by pilots and other stakeholders. During the past decade, there has been a rapid increase in the number of airplanes in the international fleet of Icelanders in recent years. Over a relatively few years, the flying activity has multiplied and places an important place in Icelandic national society. paritaprevir Njáll Traustir, son of Friðbertsson, did not tire of reminding us of his fellow servants. It is reason to express concern that while passenger engines traffic through Chefavik Airports have multiplied the entrances of the alternative flights in Akureyri, and the Lagisves have not been built up. Thus, other international airports have not developed in the rhythm of increasing air traffic to and from the country. If Keflavík is closed at rush hour, other international airports are not equipped to cope with situations that may arise when many aircraft need a spare airport at the same time. A greater part of the transport board has been suggested that under the present circumstances, pilots must inform European reserves to meet the demands of flight security during the Copenhagen period. Thus, planes on their way to the country need much more fuel. This results in increased costs for flight drivers, limits the ability to load the machines, as well as increased environmental impacts. Comments show that the airports in Akureyri and Egeils are widely used as reserves in their daily schedule flights to and from the country, and they call for significant improvements in position to improve security. On a recent visit, why? The job committee to the magnificent station of the Illelands in Hafnarfjörður, trained by Air Forces and extensive operations by the company's engineers, made it clear the need to live so that the airports in Akureyri and Eglies will be accepted as valid backup airports for international flights. I agree with the more part of it, when directed to the transport and local secretary of state to ensure a review of the transport programme that the new European Environment Agency, the Akureyri Airport, and the Elistical Airports will help ensure that the funds intended for maintenance and renewal of the EU between 2020 and 202023 are being advanced to the international airport and other airports in a base network where maintenance and renewal are becoming urgent, including the need to ensure that they are maintained. Based on safety considerations. If we look closer, I would especially like to handle two transportation projects in and around the city in Reykjavík. First, it is the road through Kjalarnes, which is extremely dangerous, narrow, single, and uninformed, and must be considered extremely visible, especially because of deep rollers that have been over the range of security limits. Sadly, accidents and accidents are all too common in Kjalarnes. This road is the third largest road in the country, yet its only source, from the country of Reykjavík, which has not been changed. He has been sitting down for decades in terms of normal maintenance and needed renewal in view of the increase in traffic. There is no mention of the winding weather in the Kjalarnes, and therefore, Mr. President, the development of Kjalarnesi is not tolerated. Second, it's a Daffle Road, but it seems that she did not get the attention she needed from the authorities in the city, and that's very sad. Several actions on her part, including sales on land and land in the Vogatown show that they can cause serious disturbances on this project and on the increase in cost. Therefore, it is necessary to be diligent in the transportation process to find ways to press on to this important work that is of great importance to transport and security in the capital area. Mr. President. When we talk about transportation and discuss it in relation to a very large amount of money, I think of a tip that came to my attention at a meeting. A legal committee that represented the road construction and covered the great cost and wear and tear that will be on the highways of the country because of heavy trucks. During the meeting, these fine representatives of the Roadmaker presented ideas that I consider to be worthy of all attention and that had fallen in order to reduce road erosion and provide considerable savings so that the funds that go to renew the road because of this wear can be used elsewhere. This is about the axular mass of transport vehicles, the width of tires, and the air pressure of tirebarrows. These indications are supported by an engineering rule attributed to the fourth power at the time of mass mass. It may be estimated that such measures could lead to such considerable saving that there is a basis for special incentives to get heavy transport players to look out for the viewpoints there are. I'd like to let myself finish by throwing it to the highest level. A minister and others who observe the matter will be given this opportunity to save money for road transport and thereby leave money that can then be used for the urgent projects that await.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u51	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson of Ish steed for his speech. It contained a lot of interesting and interesting things, and I specifically agree with him what he mentioned on the highways and measures to reduce them. This is significant because the transport network and the road system are stable. I'd like to get some ideas from what happened. A senator with regard to funding in the great project ahead of him to build up the transport system, the country's road system. I know he has a very good knowledge of a particular field, but he's a Ph.D. in economics. It has been discussed with me who seems to be concerned about the idea and methodology and who I would like to get a reputation for. A senator's ability to visualize this. It has now been reported that the two state banks of Iceland, Iceland, and U.S. Bank have a lot of money on their own. I think there are about 180 billion people in Iceland, and about 220 billion in the Bank of Landsia, which makes less than 400 billion dollars. You can say that this money is really of no benefit to anyone. It would be wise to use it in some way when it comes to selling banks. Counts 'em out. A senator even better to go along with this money to go into such structure and then fall away from the government's plans for reimbursement? In this regard, it would be nice to have the senator's ideas.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u52	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson answers. I'd like to express the opinion here that by financing of the door-to-door projects and are inevitable and must attack the fastest, at least as soon as possible, a little wide and a little bit of money must be thought and possibly mixed with different advantages. In a speech, I could say that the essential thing for the Haggard tunnel had been collected for it. I also made sure that they were funded by a loan from a fellow American who was naturally a new one in his day. Experience shows that it was a very successful project, a huge lift for the Westland, and it has some significance beyond that. I'm going to tell you that here are excellent representatives of the country in the hall, and this also has meaning for Akureyri and that's why the East is here, if you go that way. Of course, it's an option, like a what? A senator points out that some of the funds tied to the huge bank operation that the state has can use to accomplish this, but we have also reached a very complex and challenging task selling the government's property in banks. It's just ten years since collapse. Although it is true that much of the damage caused by the fall of banks is more than thought in numbers. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, a wide variety of preparations must be made. [[The president calls.]] I find it hard to imagine that in the next few years it will be possible to engage in this assignment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u53	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator wisely answered with calmness and knowledge. I take my heart to say that, of course, when decisions are made to sell the state's share, or at least Part of it. Hv. A senator named the Whale Vow. I agree that it was a very successful project. But don't forget that when it started, people were very strange, and some promised never to drive the tunnel, etc. The experiment became different and, like, a rough one. A senator correctly mentioned the tunnel is a fine example of success. True, I don't believe that the Whale Vault can be quite comparable to the idea of a road payment on key foundations from the capital area. If we take the Smokejanes Way as an example, then there is no alternative for the population than to take the road where we need to pay a price. There was an alternative in the Vault, so those who didn't want to pay the fee could take another road to drive to the Whaleland. There is a small point in this that humans have a choice, but that is not true in the case of the main components. It was mentioned in a talk that could take the South Coast road, but we know that no one will, that way is much longer. There's a lot to think about, but thank you. A Senator for a Good Comment and a Very Good Speech
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u54	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. This gives me reason to consider two factors he could handle. One of the factors is equal. When it comes to paying attention to and discussing expenses, they must bear in mind the issues of equality. This could not result in a tax paying off on the capital area in particular. There have been some very successful projects on the land, on the soil, on the soil, so I mention examples that are praiseworthy and that bear witness to the skills of the men whom they have designed and done with great expertise. I'm going to say that in general, I'm following all such projects, because they produce results far beyond what the excel documents recommend in connection with markets, increased opportunities for employment, linking the people and settlements, and making the country a whole. The other thing I'd like to mention, the one that came out of the question. A senator is that men are faced with a choice. That's a good, valid point of view. I specifically mentioned it when I wrote about the Hagular tunnel that it was the option to drive for Halfland. During a beautiful day, it is truly fun and nice, but it costs both money and time. There is indeed a view that I think is valid and that needs to be kept in mind when men follow up the further ideas for financing projects, as discussed in the evidence presented in this case. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u55	Mr. President. I come up here to give a talk. paritaprevir Ólafur the son of Ísleifsson, who now serves outside the ranks of the people who were once in Stockholm. I'd like to discuss this policy, that the payers who use it, because I think we're all agreed that the road is very bad. I would like to quote only from the senator's speech, by permission of the president, who was here discussing the budget. It says: The government's policy as reflected in the budget bill is that the work of making progress a success of what would be worthy of those who are lazy in Icelandic society is now under way. The financial benefits of the social security system are inadequate to cover adequate implementation, the management of the highest taxpayers and the desperate have not yet been released from their completed poverty trap for far too long. I agree with what was presented. A senator here at the end of November. and wondered what has changed. The effects of a special deposit per trip and a tax system due to energy exchange fall on fuel costs while still driving on old cars - perhaps even the largest income and possessions that can be short or ill divided into new lakes, which are then powered by electricity. What is the difference between the fact that all these taxes will not have the least of the material things, as one could understand the meaning of the words. A senator here in his speech?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u56	Mr. President. First, I want to thank the senator for reading from the crucial talk she chose to transport. I keep every word it says. I'd like to say, for a reason. The senator, here are two matters. On the one hand, it is in broad and realistic terms about the advantages of financing the data presented on this subject must be addressed before long thereafter. Then there is another matter. That is, so I use my own word, to free people from this man - made poverty trap. That's different. I'm going to allow myself to use this opportunity and refer here to my own case plan on that subject. In charge of the General Assembly, there is a proposal to make an income of 300,000 dollars. if there's no tax money. That synopsis proposal is supported by them, including evidence from the Holy Scriptures. that such income is not enough to be forwarded according to the standards established by the government and can be read on the welfare Ministry website. I allow me to hope that this council proposal will receive the support here at the council she deserves. I might be able to get a little closer to that as follows, because my time is running out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u57	Mr. President. We don't have time to discuss any other pact proposals other than the ones we're considering today, and we're on a program, which is a political arrangement for transport until the age of five and 15. There they offer a special currency to the general public, regardless of the economy. The senator should know this, end of economic education. The one present is just an actress and a lawyer and is therefore not as far from the background as the senator, when it comes to economic reversal. I understand, though, that if you don't have an extra coercion for a purpose, you could trawl, say 1,000 bucks. a day up and down, to get to work or to school if the person lives outside the most populous part of the capital area. But this is what we're looking at, that the average price can be about 400 K, e.g. from Reykjavík, east of the Whotype, as well as in Southnes. The senator should know that this will be the most difficult for those with no crowns of extravasation. So I'm surprised that the senator who used to be a member of the Gang of the People often spoke for those who have the worst, those who have no extra cohesion - often spoke beautifully of those whom we should be building up and looking after - today to support the curses that are more severe in the face of those who have been paralyzed. That's what I don't quite understand. Previously, the health - care provider was severely criticized and spoke of removing valuable taxes from those who suffer from long - term illness. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u58	Mr. President. You don't have to put words in people's mouths in this matter. I highlighted in my speech the advance that my good companion, outside the ranks, did. paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautiçin, did the duel, and I had in my speech advising the charges. You can be sure that I have not failed to fight for the people of Iceland who have been paralyzed. It is not out of the way, Mr. President, since those who have fallen in terms, when speaking of the available funding initiative, to refer to the extensive proposal I have made in cooperation with the second party. Senators. I'm going to allow me to add what I previously said about the proposal, that it is not only supported by the views I had in mind, that income of this kind is subject to policy-making as presented on the part of the government itself, but, rather, a report is presented by this proposal and motion of the Independence Party, now responsible for the state's affairs, with its secretary of finance. The results of this comparison are that the proposal of the Independence Party to lead the 2017 election is to lower the lower level of income tax by 2 percentage points, to 35%, while this proposal I'm dealing with is about moving within the system in particular to right the share of the poorest ones. Yet, the proposal I am responsible for here and I have put forward only a little more - certainly more, more, but the cost is less than you might think. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u59	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Oleaf the Ólafur of Ísleifsson to mention only the flight before. He has been a loyal supporters of the council who have taken this discussion with me and have taken an interest in the matter. I'm going to discuss that aspect primarily. Not many people have done so during the discussion, and that's why I thank you. A senator in particular. Hv. The members of Ísleifsson Islesson and Hjaltason Gautiça spoke yesterday about the opinion of more of the environmental and transport committees available here as a turning point plan. I agree with that, it's a turning point plan. There are a lot of system changes in what will lead to the strengthening of the transport system. The problem is a very bad situation that has developed in recent years, where the transport system has actually been starving and financed primarily in other good things, such as welfare or health and education. Transport's been a little out of the way. To me, we are primarily dealing with security in a transport programme, both air security and traffic security. I checked the data and statistics on traffic security during the last 40 years in the country's transport and rural management report on the implementation of the 2016 transport programme. There were 1977 figures, and it was reported that by a billion miles [1 m] in Iceland, 41 were killed. Then, if we go through this to 2016, the same ratio to a billion acres [4.5 km] was the same as a fatal accident. This means that the number of deaths on a mile [200 km] a year in Iceland has decreased eight times - nine times in 40 years. This has at one time been a catastrophe on the road. Traffic safety has increased and has changed for the better. We are achieving the target of traffic security for the most secure countries in a mile [ km]. But we want to do even better. What is involved in the opinion of more part of the environment and transport committee is to me a big step in that direction. However, more than half of the environment and transport committees and those facing the flights are involved. I'm gonna see what I can do to go through that. At a meeting of the Commission, pilots and other stakeholders expressed concern about international flight security, in view of the increasing air traffic and the state of international airports. During the past decade, there has been a rapid increase in the number of international airplanes in recent years. In 2010, Icceland Express and Iceland Express consisted of 16 aircraft. The combined flight fleet of Icelanda and Waw air was 2018 55 commercial aircraft. In addition, numbers of international airlines flying to and from Keflavík have been growing. Up to 30 airlines have flown to Iceland during the summer and 15 during the winter. There's been an increase in freight and ferry flights, along with smaller passenger planes in international flights. Air operations have multiplied over a relatively few years. The committee noted that great construction took place at Keflavík Airport, whereas the failure of the financial system had greatly reduced the donations needed to build up airports within a country run by a service contract with Istavia. Maintenance and innovation have been shut down, and landing sites have been shut down. At the same time as the traffic of passengers through Keflavík Airport has multiplied, the infrastructures of the Air Forces in Akureyri, Reykjavík, and the Eglish Tower have not been built up. Thus, other international airports have not developed in the rhythm of increasing air traffic to and from the country. If Keflavík is closed at rush hour, other international airports are not prepared to cope with situations that may arise when many aircraft need a spare airport at the same time. Thus, in the present situation, pilots must inform European reserves to meet the demands of flight security during the stress period of the Cheflavor airport. Thus, planes on their way to the country need much more fuel. This results in increased costs for flight drivers, limits the ability to load the machines, and increases the environmental impact. I'd like to read some comments from a number of sources that were sent in through a transport plan and adopted on an environment and transport committee. Here's a review from Illeland, by permission of the President. It is the estimate of Icelland's guardians to substantiate the flight loads and the lack of airports at Akureyri and the Elissian airports as the biggest threat to safety is the safety of flight to and from Iceland. From the comments of WOW air and the National Safety Committee on Transport Programme: ▪ It is the opinion of WOW scientists and MIF that they need a lift along the runways of Akureyri and the Egressance that could be used as an airport in emergencies. There is also a need to expand the loading areas of both airports. If these projects are not put first, the situation is serious in our opinion and, in fact, the greatest threat to flight security in Iceland. Here you can add a review of the Social Security Committee for Professionals: Achieving the enlargement of the flight loads of the Akureyri and Egeilstats fields will not tolerate the minimum amount of 10 to 15 years of waiting as suggested. Every day, some 60,480 aircraft arrive at the Cheflavour Airport, and in many cases Akureyri and Eglish Airports are used as backup airports. However, there is only room for a 4How5 passenger jet at each airport. Then comes the interesting part of the story: April 2nd, St. Matthew's. A fairly serious situation arose when seven planes had to disappear from the Cheflavour Airport, one landed in Glasgow, two in Akureyri, and four in the Lagis. As a result, there was no room for more planes at the previously mentioned airports. Where the above - mentioned airports are limited, this day the situation led one of the aircraft that had to disappear from the Cheflavor airport to Eglish status had gone heavily on its fuel reserve and was 8 minutes from declaring the emergency of fuel shortage. The reasons for this are unacceptable equipment and services in relation to the frequency of air traffic in Iceland. Furthermore, the Social Security Committee for Professionals: Investigated by the lack of investments in recent years, a economic list of the necessary renewals of equipment at the U.S. airports has become long and varied. These chronic trends cause failures in the flying system covered by the public but still pose a threat to flight security. The reviews of those connected with the flight, i.e. Airmates and security committees, about how the situation is today in those cases, is very serious. Back to the committee party of the greater part. In fact, the research committee of transportation accidents has reminded us that the international aircraft of my aircraft would have to be allowed inside more airports compared with their route to the country. A greater part of the figure is that they will be planning to improve the international flying network in Iceland to ensure that they have the ability to serve as a spare airport for a growing air travel to and from the country in an adequate way. In August 2017, then, the secretary - general of transport and rural operations ordered a group of workers who were asked to recommend a change in the management of international flights with the aim of achieving more efficient international management and efficient flying practices that resulted in consumers. During the transition in November 2017, the current transport and rural government minister decided that the staff of the work would continue with emphasis on a new government contract to form also a proposal to make domestic flight practical for the inhabitants of the country and that public transportation would continue to be built throughout the country. The staff returned their proposals in early December 2018. One of the proposals of the work team is that from January 1, 2020, there will be international airports Cheflavor airport, Reykjavíkur Airport, Akureyri Airport, and Eglish airports defined as a system of airports with a common cost base and Isavia entrusted financial responsibility for business management, maintenance and building them. By doing so, Istavia can contribute and collect services according to the financial cost of the system's operation. The Ministry of Transport and Regional Affairs should initiate a discussion with Istavia about the change in the service contract taking into account the new arrangements and measures needed, such as increasing the volume of the flying system as necessary service levels are maintained. Perhaps it should be noted that in the same report as I quoted earlier about traffic security, remaining flight taxes were submitted by 2011. If we were to look at the last year they were put to the full today, both the price of the second flight rate and the international taxes on which they were laid, that would be 1 billion and 44 million. In 2011, 1 billion were removed from the system, which explains in many respects the bad status of the system today. Back to the committee. At the same time, negotiations between the Department of Transport and the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs will be rejected for the shape of the Istavia policy as agreed by the government. The talk will include a strategy for building the flights, which is designed to strengthen international flights and its safety for the whole country. The work will also review whether and what laws must be changed in order to achieve new arrangements. The majority agree with these views and believe that international airports will be strengthened and that new numbers will be added to the transport programme accordingly. The majority are aimed at transport and rural management ministers to ensure a review of the transport programme that the new environment of the New York International Airport, the Akureyri Airport, and the LAX will lead to the immediate maintenance and renewal of the funds in 2020 2020 202023, and other flying systems in the base network, including the need for maintenance and renewal. Based on safety considerations. The system, the rest of its network, outside the Cheflavík Airport, has been absorted as I have come to. That's why I want to point them out. Congress should examine the information about a 29th - November transportation program that focuses on a poor status on the national flying system. It shows that the end of the whole country, e.g., will be near. On the surface of the runway. The majority of them also show that they want to have less planes on a international flight to land on the Hornfjord, the Western Islands, and the Isafjordur. It is primarily for safety. The NTSB has discussed the need for this. Reykjavíkur airport plays an important role in most of the medical flights as the centre of an internal flight and as a reserve airport in international flight. The committee noted that 1,25,520 years would take to build a new airport, as suggested. in the reports on the issues. Thus, the majority stress that the city airport will be well maintained and built up to the point of fulfilling his role in a safe and acceptable way until a comparable reconstituted solution is found. It will be guaranteed by the changed arrangement where his business, maintenance, and renewal of the responsibility of Istavia, which plays an important role as one of the national reserve airports. I don't have a chance to discuss the issues of the Reykjavík airport much, but he's hardly been mentioned in the discussion. Hv. paritaprevir Poor Anna Sævarsdóttir mentioned him, which is good, but it happens very rarely. I would have wanted to have a much more thorough discussion about that aspect. Last year there were about 800 medical flights in the country. Of course, 8303/4840 patients have been transferred by a medical flight, of which approximately half have just been transferred to a so - called F1 or F2 transport where patients on board are in a life - threatening or life - style. We don't talk about it much at the Hall of Congress. But let's go with the count. Service expenditures are due to meet predefined costs and must not exceed the costs, in this case, to support a powerful international flying system in Iceland. In order to reduce the impact on the flying competitiveness of Iceland and to reduce its impact on flight drivers, the greater part stresses that all possibilities will be explored to divide the service rate on all users in order to reach their lowest level. These include freight flights, ferry flights, and those who record the airports as an airfield in an Icelandic air space. This will also consider how Iceland's international commitments can provide additional funds or sources for the maintenance and development of international airports in the light of the international commitments of Iceland. In this work, the trade of Iceland and other challenges to flying should be emphasized as well as the need to compare with countries in the continent of Europe. The international airports play an important role, especially in terms of flying and public safety. During the reorganisation and construction of the flying system in Iceland, it is important to consider the needs of flight instruction, an important part of the structure of the Icelandic economy. We've been talking about how many times this flight is the foundation of tourism. I'd like to make a comment, but I would have liked to see more talk about some of the country's public flights or the grass root, which is the basis for the more efficient flying in Iceland. A greater proportion of the environment and transport committees are aimed at beginning a discussion with Istavia on finding ways within the service contract to respond to the need for surface maintenance planned in 2018 at the Western Islands airports and on Isafjordur as well as on finding ways to pay for the reception of more passengers on a international flight to Akureyri. In fact, the government covenant included the government. to work on making domestic flights more practical for the inhabitants of the country. The average price on fare has increased, and it is clear that most flight costs are too high for flying to be a practical option in domestic transport. The high cost of flights within the country greatly reduces the public's ability to take advantage of flights as a journey, thus controlling the ability of those who live far away from the capital area to take advantage of a variety of services for their inhabitants to attend, e.g. Health care, basic education, and advising. They then inhibit any kind of job structure, including tourism. For flying to become a practical option for public transportation, a significant decrease in the number of fare costs is needed. For that, the State must act in a decisive way. There are two ways, the state determines the maximum cost of flight or the state's cost on the market. As reported in a report on the construction of the flying system in Iceland and the implementation of domestic flights, there has been a way of reimburseing some of the air traffic costs in the remote areas of Scotland, in line with the EEA's rules for government granting. This arrangement is also known in other EEA countries. One of the above - mentioned minister's proposals for international growth and flight management is that the urban population in designated areas of the country will be supplied. The country's habitats, where residents travel alone, will have a 50% drop-down on the flight costs to and from the region, although maximum of four trips or eight flights per person per year, while there is experience in access to the system. A greater proportion of transport committees suggest that this system will be adopted at the beginning of 2020. The changing of the international flying system and the above reorganization can lead to a more practical way to finance new arrangements for the inhabitants of the country. The majority of the data shows that it will be paid for the bioavailability of the urban population to provide services rendered exclusively in the capital area. This will highlight the need to work on the implementation of the proposal, such as taking into account the environmental impacts and equilibrium between public transport practices. Madam President. That's it. As I told you before, I'd like to stress that in this landmark piece, there are system changes that focus primarily on traffic and flight security. I'm here to celebrate what's being presented.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u60	I want to thank you. A senator for a very informative review of flying matters as he is expected and indicated. I'm not going to get too far into them, but there were certain chapters at the beginning of a debate that caught my attention, especially the words of a starving transport program in recent years and, in effect, the transport program we are considering today. As more often than not mentioned in this discussion, there is no shortage of funding for these important projects, the necessary activities because of traffic safety and traffic weight and otherwise. They are not financed and need to be paid for. This is precisely in spite of the grand movement that would still be in the transport sector, after the large addition, of this 5.5 billion, under the average transport contributions of this century. However, it will be paid with a temporary rise in taxes. This has often been observed as well as in special discussions at previous meetings, e.g. 2011 in a special discussion that Jón Gunnarsson had about similar matters. This tax gain, the tax rate, all the companies made an oath before the election. I suggest that people listen to a talk. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr are going to be on top of it. Then I'd like to ask. A member of Parliament: What is suggested by the use of taxation every year in order to finance what is really missing so that a transport program is as deserved to the people?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u61	Madam President. It's a little out of control. The account tells me that, based on the fact that the government operates about 800 billion, that of which there is 27◯28% income tax, just one quarter, so with the extra money we're at 50%, we're down to the cost of the $68 billion, as mentioned, we're talking about 1% a year, which is a user charge. This is especially true in the discussion of the flight issues that you may have been doing for the winter and that have taken a lot of time, we stress that it will be user fees primarily to those who use the airport, which will pay it to a large degree. Let's look for funding there. When I talk about being starving the transport system, it's only political decisions in this hall in the past few years after the collapse of the economy, the capital's gone into other things. It has not been a political desire to go into exactly these things. We've talked many times, maybe on a budget and here on the Ponta IIis, that it also costs not to spend money on the hold. But in terms of services, this is about 1% of what the state takes, if we take that expression to get the comparison. I guess that's 0.23/4.3% of land production. Thus, if we look at the economic factor, money is extremely well spent on land production, economic growth, and so forth in the years ahead, as we know far and wide around the world where people have entered the transport system. This is what strengthens the nations. That is what makes economic growth in the countries, whether we look to the United States, Germany, or other nations, who have built up and put great emphasis on it. That's where it comes first.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u62	A respectable president. 1%, that's interesting. Money policy and financial planning should be reduced by 1% during the season. The first step was to get paid last time, where the personal discount was raised by about 500 cents. It'll do for a one-way trip back and forth with a cut. It's interesting to hear the context in this. Another question I'd like to ask is a subsidies on the flight that is said to be between 800 million and 1.5 billion a year. For example, at least in the beginning. What could be done for 800 million to 1.5 billion a year in a country's work and service structure, e.g. The construction of the health system across the country? 1.5 billion a year in innovation and new buildings would weigh a lot, I would think, against this service, which is likely to cross the roads. We need to get roads around the capital. Those in the far part of the country can fly over them at a paid price to reach a service that might otherwise be built for just the same coin.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u63	Madam President. I've got a real job here, trying to answer a question like this in two minutes. 8,800,1,000 million? You will not do much for them to care for all that is needed far and wide throughout the country. It's kind of a joke if you really think that in a few years with 800 million a year you can meet everything you have to do to provide access to services such as it is in the capital area and all this environment. It is often spoken as if a person can simply build up a hospital with all the services around the country and think that they can accept everything. The case is that in Icelandic Health Organization and the Land Hospital, 10% of the whole country's management will be in dealing with the most difficult cases, whether due to premature infants, heart surgery, or neurosurgical surgery. The most serious injuries all end here. There's so much that can be discussed, but you'll have such an incredible short period of time. The state is likely paying a billion dollars in Harpa a year. Has a what? A senator thought about this in the context of things? [[Up front.]] To put this into context. We have one house here at the docks, where the state pays about the same amount we're talking about in this case. It can also be noted in this discussion that the country is a vast city of 2 kroner to Reykjavík, and one comes back. It's been examined. [[Up front.]] Yeah. This is just a very normal requirement for the 60,000 people living in the region today, if we take the area from the White River to the White River. That's not a lot more than that. That they have the best access to the service created for all this country here in the capital area. I've been reading Skúli's fógeti for Christmas. That would be interesting for what. A member of the body to study that book, as we see that it lays the groundwork, and the following years will be taken all the way to Reykjavík and New York 11201 - 2483, and to the United States. It is only a decision that was made 200 or 250 years ago on how to handle matters. [[The president calls.]] This is what we want to balance only with this approach.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u64	Madam President. We've been talking about transport plans for the Senate Hall for five or 15 years at the same time. A transport program includes important plans, plans for this time, and terms that are well-funded, at least The shorter schedule, though, has already become a looser issue and is even referred to in the uncertain future. In fact, it has not always been good to throw away facts in this discussion; what is expectations, wishes, desires, what is pure fantasies, and what is unrealistic. The mind has wandered many times, as did Þórbergur of old: but all things come to one well. The need for major improvements in transport issues is high and the need is urgent. In spite of all of us, we agree that our infrastructure calls for improvement and is highly successful, they fail to respond to the calls and demands of time, increase and change of use, and that it is not an option to wait and see. So I feel that the discussion at the council has been a little indiscriminate on chapters, somehow everywhere, and difficult sometimes to stay focused. I still feel that there is quite a material agreement on the content and priorities of the suggestions presented here and that, although there are occasional conflicts about the importance of projects, there is still much to it. In a similar way, there are other distractions, such as the rest of the conversation. One minute we talk about a huge initiative in the infrastructure, national condition, the need to improve the safety of road users by all means, that accidents are all over the way - and it's true - that this should be done in common, using funds from all of us. The moment is so emotionally discussed that in order to do all of this quickly and that especially road users need to be taxed. Pays and expenses there, either everywhere or in some places, all over the country, even within towns and cities. Let's leave it between parts for now. We need to talk about this in a few months, including. improved means of financing traffic initiatives. On this and all of these matters, we need to make real peace rather than put too much effort to pressure against someone who is badly informed and that seems to be a burdensome arrangement in the way of conflict. There is no need for strong opposition to the changes in traffic costs, but is it not proper to do so in a reasonable and balanced way, to consider various options, and to call for the experience of other nations that have it? We'll get some, for example. The news of our cousins, the Norwegians, is that in Norway there is increasingly a measure of tolerance to the charges, roads, and large groups in this area that are now being raised to support a growing exchange in this area. Similarly, Sweden wondered about another and a uniform payment. Let us take a reasonable amount of time in this discussion and careful and wise means, both to those who are economicly practical, technologically manageable and to which there is a measure of well - being. Madam President. As a member of the country, I'd like to kill down foot in my vast Northwestern district, which, of course, is the most beautiful district of the country, I say, and that's what I trust. [[Taken out in Uu...]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] In the meantime, I'll prove it. [[Up front.]] We will be self-concerned about one aspect of the road transport system, but the transport program will, of course, deal with more factors; the flight, ports, pedestrians, and bikers; for example. At that point, members of Parliament have made comments in their talks. I'd like to discuss a little about the aims of the transport program for positive development. There are things that are defined into five joints. First of all, the need for a national application programme to reexamine the needs of individual areas for improved transport to promote rural development, strengthen the area of work and the country. This emphasizes that, although in single and limited areas, transport is not a matter of personal interest to any area, but it is a matter of interest to all the people of the country. Second, transport strengthens housing quality as much as possible in all parts of the country. Third, we will consider the goal of trying to shorten travel time by building up roads with bound stretchers and building a tunnel to replace difficult mountain roads and expand the workforce. Fourth, the aim of creating a mutual vision for all parts of the country and the whole country through integrated transport programmes to other programmes and public policies to promote employment and quality of life and to maximise the cost of transport efficiency, services and investments. This has now been attempted in a more recent development program. In the fifth and last, that there may be more for opening of the gate to and from the land. This may refer primarily to the air and possibly to the future. The harbors, too. That's a great goal, Madam President. We can reach them, and no one in the councilroom doubts that there is a full will for them. In some of the ways, we discern not roads or routes, but because of financing. For this to work, the combined campaign of Congress and the people of the land must be met, and we need to agree in principle. We need the discussion that takes time, and we are now in the middle of it. We cannot pray for action, they must begin without delay, and we would have had to be going on to a greater degree than we do now. Madam President. Those living in a Western land were proved to be true in the final days when news of the possibility of a delayed project in Kjalarnesi, one of Iceland's largest roads. It is an average of 7,000 cars a day and more in summer, some 14,000 cars a day. The road has been set aside in road reforms for the past few years, and now the situation has become disturbing. It's very dangerous to drive through this area, it's known to people who drive this thing every day. The road, in addition, is one of the strains that have not been changed from the city of Reykjavík. So it would have been remarkable if this big and important project had been delayed. The constant need for protection is completely unacceptable to Westerners and not just Westerners but to all the inhabitants of the country because it is a national highway. Westerners have been fighting for years for improvement in this road, which has taken many accidents and, unfortunately, a tragic number of lives. Hv. The acting director of the Environment and Transport Committee announced yesterday that the project had been reversed and that there would be no delay in performance. Madam President. I continue to move on in this beautiful setting and where I would stop at places other than Acdéri, one of the most beautiful towns in the country. There has been a large and large factory, the Serent factory of the State. This factory has been put at its disposal. The factory is being ripped down and on the grounds of a flourishing settlement along the seashore. However, the cost of subversive taxes was not reached. It has now been made possible to negotiate with the Road Building, and it has set in motion a program of transportation that is a cause for joy and joy. The path to the Faxway must be lifted because people expect rising levels of water and travel across the land, as is the case today. So we're going west and north, it's also a special pleasure to know that by the end of the procedure at the river of Peace in Snæfells. That's what's been going on for the second decade. The Western Transport Plan has been developed for a few years, and these two projects, Kjalarnes and the French Fjords, have been the top priority of the local government. It is a pleasure to see that the transport programs in the national community are effective. However, the cause of great disappointment is that only 550 million are estimated to be generally used in a Western country during the next five years, much less than in any other part of the country. It is completely incomprehensible and difficult to cope with. In the West, about 14% of the country's roads are exposed to some 60% of the roads without erosion. Three rural areas in a Western country are among the ten rural communities on a national scale, where most roads are not bound together. These are the Borradal Stripes, the Dala settlement, and the town of the city. Less than 10% of the country's roads are in these three rural areas. In the Northern West, there are about 13% of the root and network in the country. The funds for their new structures have been less than 0.3% of the total budget. However, the proportion of roads with bound separation is nowhere lower than in these parts of the country, by 29%. There's a lot of traffic, there's a verdant settlement, and there's a very powerful agriculture, one of the most expensive sheep farms in the country. The forest coast, some may have visited, has much to do with the inhabitants of the Snæfellsnes, and in the region of Dala, which for decades has been inhabited by laska malar roads. In many parts of the area, fast - growing transport and agriculture are being developed. With improved transportation, there are opportunities for cooperation in these nearby settlements, as well as the valley region, no doubt would benefit from a vast number of tourists traveling through Snæfells. As is the case today, tourists are driving by themselves, even in Forest Coast Road summer as winter, and they are often in trouble and storms. There must be good management of the funds and projects ahead of schedule. Similarly, the small number of projects on both programs in the northern part of the Western world is disappointing. There is only one project to be considered new. It is the Har - Magedon Road, which is placed on the front part of the second part of the 2019◯023, which, of course, has to begin as soon as possible. Roastland Road has long been a conflict in the national part of the world. The current road is cramped and slanted, with many blind hills on it, and it is difficult in winter. Roastland Road connects a work area that covers the Bleeds and the Skaga coasts of the Sea of the Year and has been fortified in the region. In addition, many youths from all parts of the north are attending the North American High School of the West in the South of the Year and thus traveling this road, some of which are daily, other weekly. The above development of cooperation in this area has increased substantially since the restoration of the road to Mount X - ray. In the northern western part of the West, the Waternes roads have made their way through the discussion and the conditions on the road through Waternes. This point has been in the highest priority of the local people, and it is good to have agreed on a project in the future in connection with changes in road and a new bridge over the Tannar River. In many parts of the company of Skagaveum, you can find roads that are dangerous because money has not been provided for maintenance. However, in a five - year transport program, no direct donations for building malarways are to be expected with a bound discrepancies in the countryside and there are no roads involved, but in the area of non-programming activities. That's not acceptable. But the household doesn't sleep on their guard, because they have great interest and understanding. They have been struggling to draw attention to the health of the transport sector and have moved plans to start a study of the practicality of digging tunnels through the Grinch and to study the social and economic effects of such mechanisms. The development of regional policy in furthering Akureyri appears to be a growing link between both governments and the public and proposals for passage between the land of Tegafur and the Eygroms to strengthen this factor and to show the willingness of the pesticians to adapt to the prevailing regional policy. In fact, the locals believe that roads between the land of Skafur and the Eyjafjörður are no special interest in the pterosaurs but, of course, national interests. Little about our country's airports, which are part of our transport network. They're divided up to see if they belong to a pilot's base net. Alexander's airport in the South Pacific is the only airport in the northwestern country that belongs to the base net. It is important that the course continues to do so and that there will be sufficient funds for regular flights. Also, it may be possible for the airport to be available for hospital flight at any time, but there is no doubt about it, but during uncertainty, it is appropriate to point out the possibility of the field as a training and training airport for a pilot, since the facility is excellent. Hv. Egilsdóttir Last night's excellent speech made sure that we educated good pilots and trained them in every possible setting. There is a great deal of strength in the land of Skavetir and vegetation. The sheep's jar is about 25,000 tons a year and the harbors are about 50,000 tons per year in import and export. However, because they seek great things, they need to improve the harbor of the Sea of Galilee. They want to receive more cruise vessels, and so do beach transports. There are tasks on the seaside. This part of the North Garden, for example, must be re-created. on Hofsose. As well as on Eaglestastpa, where there is an important small boat crew, declines in Snæfells City and the Eaglesta is on the floor. Ice Capacity is a child of its time, with massive trafficships, as well as a building site on the dock, requiring expansion. We know that the ransom fund has been starving for years, and there is a great need for maintenance. Since recent projects have been minimal, it is difficult to meet the needs of new and profitable tools. I use fish farms, and I mention cruise vessels, parachip processing, indisputed embezzlements, or ideas on the electricalisation of the harbors. In the west, humans are eagerly awaiting a march of animals. If this happens to be the case, the Dollinger's morning road and, in the same way, on the Bilddal Road of Arnarfjord, it is a surprise to think about it. It is completely out of the way of opening animal soils and building new sectors in the region. We cannot believe it until we face up to the fact that this matter will not be resolved. It is hoped that construction will occur in the Gufudal Corps on 60 West Coast Road, but improvements will affect both human life and employment in large areas. That's a big difference, especially for tourism. Madam President. A journey to ancient times is the road to the West. In many areas, there are narrow roads, drenched dirt roads, and single - edged erosions as well as bridges. The transport programme does not require any specific actions intended to reduce the 60 single-line bridges found on the West. There's a airport that's one of the most historic and dangerous in the world, and there's a council proposal that we're going to make a choice and take care of a new airport. Only public transportation at the end. The aim of promoting public transport is required for transport to be environmentally sustainable. Similarly, the growth of public transport can have a positive effect on urban development anywhere in the country, increase in job application areas, and improve access to services. [[The president calls.]] This is true of the Westerners as others that they attend e.g. Work and study to Reykjavík, driving around Kililarnes daily, which needs to be improved, as previously discussed. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. [[The president calls.]] I have speeded up a few aspects of the transport program, and I have offered a one-night stand of circumstances in the vast Northwestern District. There are many moving work to do in transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u65	The president asks why. Conventioners kindly give respect for the time of public speaking.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u66	A respectable president. I want to thank you. Guðjón The Brjánsson of a brilliant speech and a fine passage across the West and the Northwestern District, which, of course, is beautiful as it is in so many parts of Iceland. This is now the area that has the highest resources in this transport program. It hasn't always been. There are many important tasks to be carried out. I'd especially like to commend you. A senator for discussing the transportation system as a whole. There is, of course, a key element in all our approach. It is also vital that we do so. A senator came in, applying role models for the payment of the road system to neighboring countries. It's been shown in the middle of nowhere. The Environment and Transport Committee that this is what a team of rural and transport ministers are doing these days. We've had visitors, including. From Norway, to review the experience from there so that we can take advantage of that experience. Hv. A senator also mentioned Sweden. I wanted to know if he knew more in Europe. It has been observed that in many parts of Europe, we are paying due fees, and I would like to ask if he knows where we've had the best experience. I would also like to ask, " What roads do the senator feel will affect all the people of the country from day to day? ' What avenues of transport are there for every day? And for the inhabitants of the land to travel in and out of the country, for visitors to come or to travel abroad?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u67	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm not an expert on charges, and in fact, I don't know much about them in Europe except as an occasional consumer. In large numbers, the Norwegian have grown weary of this price. But this has affected the structure of public transport, I believe in, although I have no confirmation of it. I think it's promoted the use of public transportation. Sweden, as mentioned in the Sermon on the Mount. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson, they are paying attention to a coordinated collection according to miles. That's what we call it. Germany also has a lot of these ideas about so-called GPS, wireless measurements. It's just measured when you move your car, registered with GPS messages, but you're sure you're afraid it's not going to be a protection issue. They need to know if they can't be secure and put together properly for such knots and, of course, this would strengthen the GPS around the country. With regard to the importance of the roads, it's highway 1 we focus on. Of course, Western roads and Kjalarnes Ways are part of this system. In fact, it's a bit raw to drive through there at all weathers, where more of the traffic is large trucks.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u68	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. These are very important issues that he instituted, which are attributed to the Committee on Environment and Transport. It's important to look at the protection issues in the implementation of currency. There are ways. It is important to look to neighboring countries. I have to be equal to this, and in that case I've just wondered about it with the results. It's Route 1. All moving to shore, like cot. A senator came in, and much of the move out of the country has to go by highway one, depending on these routes to the capital and tourists pass through. The only people who may never have to go that way are tourists who bring Norwegian to Sufjörður and possibly some capital people who never went ashore, if we imagine them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u69	A respectable president. I thank you for your answer. There have been significant improvements in road affairs. Although I'm a young man now, I remember a man rattled west on Icefjörður, on a large part of Isafjörður's grave. It's different. That's great. That's great. But what has happened in the past is increasing weight. Now all fish transport is on the road, and freight transport is increasing. The market and the business life require quick return of goods, and people do not want to lie down with much supplies in the country. That is why they rely on the rapid migration of land, and it has been found that the roads cannot withstand this tremendous traffic.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u70	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón of the son of Brjánsson before the speech. There is a section in the interview entitled Various Roads on a road program, and it says, by permission of a president: The ◆ The more part [ proposals] to allow space generated in the transport programme for the coming years by financing large projects with taxpayers. used to increase total road and road production. Then it says: ▪ These include also the Forest Coast Road, Laxáry Road, Waters Road, Jack Valley Road, Gilsavesá, Gilsásásar Standards, the changed road to Hrafjörgil, Garðgarga Road, Garndöngga, Gardensval Road, Skögarhalla, the citynes, and the Innland Road. - and they talk about Aarneshrepp on the beach. There are many roads in the northwest. - I hope so. A senator has heard what I said. But anyway, it's showing what happens when road charges are taken up and carried out quickly during this 15 - year period so that money is released in this way as a matter of time. A senator was referring to a situation that is very poor or imperfect. I would also like to add to the fact that the road between Reykjavík and City is also being accelerated by five to ten years against a moderate tax rate estimated by the order of 2,200,300 k. one leg. I would like to clear out what the senator feels about this idea and how he sees it possible to finance the way I was listing, which was 10 or 12, in a way other than to do it this way. It's an easy solution. This is the same solution that was used to restore the Chefavour Way, and there is no controversy about it in the community today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u71	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think it's a good thing to try not to be too preconceived and not paint the devil on the wall in advance, take a good look at all the sides of the story. One thing we know is that we need to put more money on the road trajectory. Times require it. The traffic requires it. I don't think so. With regard to these roads and what we're talking about and what we're dealing with and what we're making money uninstalled, the space that we've got. A senator mentioned, e.g. To meet the challenges in the country, it is likely the funds to be collected by traffic fees in Reykjavík for customers. I think we need to take this discussion carefully. It will probably not be okay if there is one place to collect and another place to go. We've had that discussion before; we talked about it, for example. Yesterday's details on how we could visualize it in a different way. However, there is no need to rule out the fact that we are storing expenses of traffic workers differently than we do today. I think it says itself, that within a few years, we'll be driven to revise it all.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u72	Madam President. I'm the last man to think so. Senator, I know him from everything else. Anyway. It is not due in Reykjavík, and the money is being returned to the country. They're collecting tax on three root lines. Those who drive Cities/Reggavík, whether by the way, are Smokey, or Borgnes, which, if necessary, pay a price, and that's the money that's going ashore. The fact that social justice is also involved in receiving something a little more for what it has done for a nation, let us say, more than what the heads count is saying. This is perfectly normal. I would also like to point to another: According to the presentation we received on the so - called Oslo Packages of Oslos, there were 2/3 in Akershus and Oslo satisfied with the cuttures of that large area in Norway.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists a second time. These are interesting subjects and they don't leave us. We need to take a stand for them, and we need to strive to make real peace. It'll probably never be a hundred percent. I don't know that much criticism has been made about how the capital area has taken part of financing from joint funds to roadside. That is why the question is asked: Will peace increase with the available funding proposals? That's a matter of opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u74	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón of the son of Brjánsson before the speech. I wanted to ask how it was. A senator would like to have ideas on the Scottish route. He is now serving in a regional district where he is flown to several locations in the district. We have a Valley Airport, Isenafjörður. Then, like a whale. A senator points out, Alexander's base airport. In fact, the corrected route may contribute to a better start on flights than has been tried, in the past year. It would be interesting to know what he thinks of the Scottish route and their ideas. Then the financing of the pilots and what ideas exist in the majority of the environment transport committees on the national airport activities. In 2009, I pointed out in my earlier speech, making very poor decisions, resulting in the ultimate financial expenditure of the U.S. airport economy in 2011. My calculations today, and I found the data yesterday, showing that it was a billion removed from the system used in airports and maintenance and new airports. So things have gotten worse. I'd like to ask you what. From November 29, Istavia's comments to the transport program, which describe the conditions at airports such as Bilddal Airport and Isafjörður Airport. It can be noted that, for example, The trucked valley airport says, as I quote in the review of Isavia: ▪ The tiny runways and airports are very low, as expected from previous landing views and a previous assessment that the runway had to be worn this year (2018). In fact, the fact is that airports need to be closed at this time and next year because of the lack of attention on their part. I'd like to ask about these things.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u75	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The strange way is interesting, I think. I would've chosen to experiment in Iceland about it, and I'd think of two settlements that are very disintegrated on the one side of Gímney, which, in fact, is supported by some way in this respect, and the Aarnes platform on the beach or by the flight to Gjörk. It may be a short time too, but it would be interesting to know how it worked in this context. We had a meeting in the Western Council this spring with the Scottish Minister, who is traveling, culture, and foreign. There was now very little room to discuss the Scottish route. It has to be said that she was not quite aware of this by the Scottish route or by this support, so I don't have enough information beyond what we've received from a council held here for several years. But this is interesting, and it is a question of whether it could be framed in a reasonable way. That, of course, is the goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u76	Madam President. Thanks for the answer. In the United States, international and economic development organizations held a conference for a year and a half ago in Reykjavík on these issues and received, in part, one and a half years. the person who lectures on these matters in Scotland. How this has been handled in Scotland and the politicians in the Scottish Parliament were all alone behind the idea, just to be said, what was presented at that meeting. Then maybe I'd like to ask. A senator, because I am now a great amateur on the Sunway, as many of us would expect, and would have liked to see her way higher, she would come fast and well into our transport system: Isn't it a disappointment now that the waterway has been established and is being built on a road that was most beneficial for them, where the palm trees should be replaced? Isn't it disappointing for Western and Northern countries how the Road has been handled here in the rest of the planning capital?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u77	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for his second answer. Disappointment? Roads lead to all eight. The waterway has not been built, and something else can be drawn up and chosen by another road, perhaps by some extreme. I don't think there's a hundred at risk, and that's the end of it. But I forgot to mention the situation on the runway. Of course, that's a concern. We know the situation in the West as it is. It's just less commercial aircraft suitable for ice ground, so it can't be changed. There's some money in a transport program to reimburse Bilddal Airport. Of course, it is this point that we must take our stand on, I think: Is there a basis for building one new good airport in the area that answers the call of time?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u78	Madam President. Pregnancy's a mess. This is only a failure, since the motto for the last election was: infrastructure, infrastructure, infrastructure. But when it comes to financing the roads needed to go on - that's what the argument is about. Everyone agrees that there is a need for road work and the nation for a survey made by Gallup for Porta's party every year is clearly high in its priorities. The difference between 2017 and 2018 on how the country wants to establish financial priorities, how taxes are taken, and how the budgets are applied is that transport has leaped up to second place according to the health system; from 29.6 to an estimate of less than 39. In addition to education and education, social security and welfare, law enforcement and security, etc. It is clear that the country demands that its government take priority on transport. And that's what we promised. Then it's about how to pay for it. The government's budget can be set in order to do this. Icelandic car owners have noted that motorists pay more than is then assigned to building up the road system. There would be one way, setting priorities for government affairs. Has it been done? No, it hasn't been done. What have the governments promised before the election? At any rate, we know that the groups that approved and handled this case with exorbitant charges, special charges on certain institutions, out of the Commission, said that elections, at least in the South Sea, the Independence Party, the Central Party, even the head of the category, were not to be charged with perpetuation. The word they used was taxation, but in the leading section the greater part appears on page 24. 5: ◯Vare funded by reimbursement to specific institutions. That's a charge. The promise is to betray a greater part of the Committee, the Council. What did the judges after the election say when they agreed on a government contract? Who, then, was to pay for this restoration of the wood, especially the roads? That is what the government covenant on page 18 says. 12 On Transport and Communication, by permission of Presidents: ▪ A project is faced in the national infrastructure. These include transport, communication, host systems, and other activities. This is the first time we've got a parade. And how should this be financed? In the years that follow, there is room for government property to be used on such projects, thus ensuring the solid infrastructure that is essential for a wide variety of, vigorous living across the country. The government wants to speed up road development and other transport infrastructure by both innovation and maintenance. In setting priorities, different sites, tourism, and safety goals will be considered particularly. This is what was supposed to be done in transportation. The first two items mentioned. It was to be financed by the property of the State. What the kingdom gathers into goods, to profit money, says Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson to me to be 33 billion. This could be established according to the government covenant on top of what was determined and added 33 billion. There's room for that. It may be possible to reduce what goes on paying off debt, but 30 billion are put in charge of paying off debt. But what do the people say about their priorities in terms of government? What's the difference between transportation and subsidies? Payback is so low that I have to go somewhere else to look at it. 12% wants to put more on it, and nothing has moved between the years, while transport is getting 39% in the first place. The people of the country want to put transport for four times as much priority as paying off debt. In the Treaty, the government promised to use the government's property income to build the transportation system. And how did the government groups fulfill that promise? The independent party class took the treaty to their party council of about 200. You members of the category are responsible for this government contract. And your classes, as shown in the polls, both Machine and MMR, are not pleased. It shows that the independence party has 52% vs. roads in Iceland in that brain. There are 28% for roads or structures where options are different from 19% if there is no other way to go. So now these members of the council have to answer to other voters of the Independence Party why you are not doing so here on not further breaking your campaign promises and promises in the Treaty on how to finance road structure, transport in the country. When it comes to left green, the party council is there. You set up the government contract for your party council. What does that say? 55% of your people, Mr. Machine's poll on whether the people of the country want roadtolls. But there is 36% in favour of them if there is another way, which is not in this case, in the committee's opinion. If there's no other way to go, there's only 8.6% in favor. When it comes to the Agency, it is the central management of some 200 people who are being placed in the Member States and approved by the Constitution that says that the government's revenues should be used to finance the structure of the road system, the part of the Treaty that is being betrayed by this committee coming out of an environmental and transport committee. I just can't understand the people sitting there, like the Ari Trausti Guðbjartsson, who is in the Southern District, which is the ideal example of the MMR survey, who are absolutely crazy that they are going to put on roadtoll, as is shown in this committee Guðbjartsson written by Ari Trausti the son of Intense. [[Up front.]] Mr. Guðmundsson, excuse me. It says that 73% of people in the South and Smokeynes are opposed to what they say here. There's only 22% in favor of that if there's another way around, which is not in this case. These are local fees to be applied, which are applied specifically to people who live on Smokejanes, who live in the South, near Reykjavík, and therefore often drive through, in Who Type, at Selephoss, and Ak Arane. These are regional expenses for these people in particular. There are only 4.5% for roads in this area, and there are three members of the Southern District of the Committee, all of whom approved this case. Councilmen Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Independence Company, and then Hjaltason Gautë, why. former senator for the Gangs. How does this look about equality? It's a regional fee, especially for these people. Should regional fees be applied specifically to someone else, in funerals, and so on? That is when the committee's opinion of equality is discussed. On page 18. 5 says, with permission from the President: It will be examined with equal force in view to whether certain avenues of the country, which will cut distances, will be financed by means of mixed funding; in part, by transport contributions and, in part, by borrowing that will be paid by remuneration. Paybacks will be canceled when loans are paid off. Some of the projects that might fall into this category are rings around the Hornfield and Axes Road. It's supposed to be taking the equal focus, but it's just paying a lot of money on these settlements I mentioned before, the people who live outside the Great Reygúsavík but work hard in Reykjavík. It's not a thing. This isn't exactly the direction of the left green. First, it is not paid for by public taxpayers, which has already been paid or something like that. No, it's not supposed to. This is not supposed to be a product of tax recovery, since those who earn more and who have more money. It's not to be done that way, but that's exactly the left-green tax policy, at least as they talk about it before the election. It's not supposed to be that way. This is not to be the case, so it is said: " We're going to make people pay to use it. ' And there is not even to be equal when it comes to living people. It's totally contrary to what you read in a left green policy file, and it's against what they promised. If we examine social groups, who are the most opposed? Then women are more against this than men. I'm not surprised. When we look at people's income, it's just a little more money than that. There's something left green, but also the forward party that likes to be left when it comes to elections should be especially visible. It is a tax that deals with women, low income, younger people, who pay more money on that brain, those who have basic school tests rather than a university test. Probably because of the income again. Worse still, those who live alone in a home and many are single parents, and those who are single, are more likely to be single parents. These are all these groups. How could this be done? This could be paid by setting financial priorities. It doesn't seem to be at the top. The secretary of the finance of Bjarni son of Benediktsson has allowed it, but he is the member of the state. But the left green might say: We have to live up to this government covenant. It says that there is room over the years to use government property on such projects, i.e. • ensuring the solid infrastructure that is essential for a wide range of intensive and high - quality living across the country; Of this, the left green pressure could be said: Paying up debts is less important when it comes to government income, money money, and so forth, and making more transportation. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] It's right here. That's what we're supposed to do. But what do lndependence want to put the money? Bjarni son of Benediktsson with his bill wants to place government income, government interest payments, national funds, while it is in the government covenant that they should be placed in the building. How, though, will the money be paid for the infrastructure? Yes, it is to be borrowed and then paid up. The State's debt is to be paid off with the government's capital, its money in the state, and put it into a national fund, and then take other loans to pay for projects in certain areas that are completely ineligible for those living there. This is the worst, and I will do everything I can to stop the bill that comes out of this conjugal proposal and the bill to be shown now in March about the implementation of these charges, if it is implemented in this spirit or not in the spirit that the people of the country can accept. It could be that the people of the country would accept some kind of prenup. It may also be possible to have a much more efficient and better implementation. Like you pay for hot water and you have to read the meter from time to time. You pay as much as you use it. It could be done so that you can read your meter what you have been driving. You're paying for it. It would be a perfect match, you pay for what you use. In fact, even the Finnish way could be inserted, people paying a lot of money on income, income, and property income. If you're fined for a parking ticket or a traffic violation or something like that, you pay in line with your income. If we want to equalize these matters in a national language, we can read from the figures of the cars. Whoever's using, pays. If we want equals or progressors to collect on these fees, we will use the Finnish way. Thus this could be done, even possible to escape the Finnish route and just do the other, with equal payback for the population, something that the people might accept. Still, there would be betrayal of the government covenant. But I will do my part so that the bill that appears in March will not be completed here during a council against the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u79	Madam President. You can give long speeches and come to this matter in very different ways, and that's what I'm going to do. I'm going to come to this matter from a different perspective. There's plenty to take. A lot of things have been said here. This has been an excellent conversation with different viewpoints, which would be helpful. However, I came up here to celebrate one point of view. Last night there was a fine talk about the future, about the vision we have for the community we live in. I think most of us agree there, hopefully -- not all in fact. I felt that this was evident in a special discussion last week, if I recall correctly, of city lines and public transportation. When it comes to transportation in general, I approach them primarily from public transportation. Then you can enter a road rat here or there or what you're doing in this area and the other, etc. and that has been very thorough and effective in this discussion. I'm gonna let me avoid it. It doesn't mean I don't think it's important or important, but I'm gonna let myself see that. This need not be extended by repeating it once again, but it is good to remember what we see in this area - until the year 2040, the population will increase by 70,000. No matter what our view of the other person may be, it does not matter. If we don't do anything, we'll follow the traditional transitions on the transportation we live in today - if the traffic continues to develop as it is today - we'll see that we're going to be in traffic 40% longer than we are now. Although we'd bring in the reconstituted route and make high - speed social movements, times will still increase. It's just facts, and no matter what we think of them. Civil line is simply the answer. If the answer is different, perhaps the question is just crazy when it comes to talking about transportation here in the capital area. You see, at times we've been discussing transportation, as if it were all about what happens to the cars. How does this affect the owner of a car? What happens to car owners here or car owners there? I have a community where people can be without a car. Where fewer and fewer people have cars. I speak there from some experience. In my years, since I was 18 years old, I have had a car for about five years. You can't have a car, but it's hard when you have a lot of things to take your children here and there, etc. It's hard when we're looking at the mass we're talking about being here. That's why we need massive measures. We all need to aim for the same objective that is to increase the share of public transportation, which is developing a real civil transport system here in the capital area, as we see in every city in every country around us. It doesn't matter where we travel. I've always found it quite remarkable when Icelanders travel abroad. Then they jump onto trains, subways, or bus, or whatever, no problem - then fly home and have to be picked up at Keflavík Airport. Not because going another way is not an option. It's just as if something happens in the mind. This is where we take a private car. It needs to be changed, but it doesn't change, I think, unless we get the choice public transport system. How do we do that? I'm going to be so bold, President, and say, "I don't really care." This year's going to be a big deal, but that's not a key to me. I just want to find a way to do it. Is it due? Maybe. That's what we've been discussing with them as planning machines in this area. Is it through the tax system clean and straight? Maybe. I'm afraid, if it turns out, it'll be a slight delay because we're talking about large amounts of money. We're talking about tens of billions. We've experienced it here in this room that if we're talking about spending money on something, somebody's gonna come real fast and say, "Wait, what about this one? Why are we not spending this money from the treasure of the Kingdom to this truly needed group? Are we talking about something else? Are we talking about--I just don't know. As I say, let's find the way. Here we talk about expenses, and we have an opinion of charges as if it were clear what perks are being discussed in this transport program. It's not like that at all. It is not clear how this spending may appear to be due to the fact that a working group who is working has not completed. Will there be collects like this or gays? I don't know. Is there any way better than the others? I don't know. Shall we look at Oslo? Should we look to any other country? Let's just figure it out. To me, the fees we collect to create public quality and city line, which is high quality and high-speed civilization, are in my mind of public quality. Let's find a way to get them on. Even if we did nothing else, we in this room, in our political process, but to contribute to the reality of the city line, we could stop the council whenever it becomes, proud.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u80	Madam President. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he understands the importance of the majority of the committee. On page 18. Fifty - eight of the committee's opinion is written by two members of the Governing Body. A senator, says, by permission of the President: The ◯Mei part emphasizes the need for remuneration to be performed in the following way: 1st On three main pillars, i.e. Smokey Way to the Southland, Southland, and West Road Cheflavour Way, on top of the capital area. The aim of currency in these ways is to speed up projects such as planning and planning allow and to improve the quality of the root vessels, while existing plans are expected. These are suggestions that the greater part highlights and then makes adjustments in relation to them. Does he not feel that he is accepting what the greater part suggests if he agrees with the suggestions of the greater part?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u81	President. I'm sorry if it was. A senator doesn't believe in me any more than it does, so he thinks I don't know what's in his opinion. Yes, the greater part contributes to the payment of payment on road projects. I wasn't talking about it, and it's my fault if I got it blurred. I'm talking about exactly how the payment is going to be done, whether it's toll gate or GPS or whatever it is, the big part of the discussion has been about, and quite ahead of what's normal in my opinion. That's what I'm talking about. When there are any suggestions on how to finance the city line, which I hope will be there, let us consider a discussion. A senator agrees with me that there is a need for a capital area. It's in my mind how you collect workouts. If it's not done in a special fee, I'm afraid there'll be a delay, and we'll all be waiting to see the city line. I reiterate that it is an Omega and alpha in transportation to the capital area. The majority stress how remuneration will be administered and how roads will be financed. Then there is another discussion that we need to take in the future payment on the road. We take everything at the right time. It is clear that in the fall, a review of transport plans will be made. In my mind, the emphasis on public transportation is tremendous, and how to build it becomes reality.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u82	Madam President. Again, I ask the senator if he doesn't like it if he agrees with the motions that he is accepting the proposals of a larger section of the Committee. The majority of the proposals are on the three main stems, the Way of Smoke, to the Cheflavík, Southland, and the Westland Way. If the suggestions are accepted, it's the suggestions we vote for. The senator and the rest of the council send to the secretary of the environment and transportation, the proposal that certain settlements in the country, Smokejanes, the South, especially Who made and Selephos, from where they drive into the city, and Aclin, will be particularly taxed for this. Men have talked about taxes and taxes, and let's not necessarily tie ourselves in it, but these are all road expenses, increased fees paid by those who drive this road, and those who drive a record. It's built in the suggestions. Those who drive all the favors. That's what I'm talking about. Does he not feel that he is accepting what the greater part emphasizes about the way the payoff will be performed? This comes from the greater part and will be submitted to the council. Living up to it. Don't you think a senator like me? If it's not just fine, but I think it's so that it will be the message that will be sent to the secretary of the environment and transportation. When the minister proposes a bill for remuneration, he will take it into account, because the General told him to do so. Then he's in a safe place and can say, "The Senate has agreed on this. Now it's just like this, and that's how we do it. This will make it much more difficult for this council to reverse. This is the danger I see. Doesn't the senator see it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u83	Madam President. I see the danger that we don't dare--no, I'm sorry, President, I'm gonna start again. It bothers me when politicians criticize others to lack courage if they refuse to follow them. I beg your pardon. If we are not ready to revise our transport issues from scratch, we will face enormous problems. I see a window to get the city line on. In my case, I reviewed that this is the opportunity for a political career. In my opinion, the city line is so important that there are other issues that can come close to improving people's lives and interests as much as we can if we succeed in establishing the city line.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u84	Is it worth it...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u85	Wait a minute. A senator respecting the fact that I'm trying to talk. He is the president of the Generals and is to know that the call for advance is not particularly helpful to the discussion, as you can see here, since I completely lost my desire to be on the front call. Senator. [[Up front.]] I lost him so much that I'm not sure I'll find him again, Mr. President. I want to reiterate it. Then we're discussing payment and payment and taxes and I don't know what. Word games don't really matter to me. We now have a system that pays for the use, the cities for use through gasoline or oil fees. I'll spend 100 litres, and I'll pay more than the person who spends 10 litres because I use more. It's not a variation to me. We need to find a way because it should be our objective, all of us, that fuel and oil costs will disappear as stock, because we stopped using gasoline and oil.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u86	A respectable president. This is an interesting discussion, and it has been interesting to watch members of different categories. But there is something in common, and it is important for me to draw forward, which is good in politics: It is that all classes have ambition to do well in transport. All classes have ambition, in my opinion, to care in one way or another, so you use a famous expression, public transportation. There are different emphasises, different strengths, discrepancies, but public transportation has been discussed here, important. Thank you so much. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Proppér, Ottharson Prope, for nameing a city line and being one of the few senators who has the guts to talk about city lines and the importance of securing public transportation, changing their thinking. I knew it was my fault when it happened. A senator spoke of it, when we came home after using every subway in every country and public transportation and then going to my second fine Prius. But it's what it is. It has been interesting and to some extent pleasant but also thought about sitting here in the Hall and observing various talks. The tragedy that I may feel about this is that we are entering the future that we all want to shape. We all want to be involved. For the 2017 election, and actually 2016, but notably 2017 - all classes, and I think all classes could have joined together in the government of transport. Then, in due course, we will act inexorably toward voters. Two of the board of directors, forward and left green, said not so clearly, they just said it was very clear, the heads of these classes are now in the government, one is prime minister, and the other is the secretary of transportation: we are not going to be charged, just not at all. I remember that in the last government, the only liberal government in recent years who served for a few months, we were in a paradise. Counting as an accessory to the best category because we allowed ourselves to have an opinion, not to pay dues, but also to plan for future transport expenditure procedures. We wanted to look to the future and did not exclude anything there. It reminds me of the words made by the prime minister, whether in a council hall or elsewhere, that we would need to build trust in politics, to examine what we say before elections, and then to do after elections. I think there are a number of cases that can be taken off the campaign of the present government parties and applied to how they have been entered into a government contract. It's been given off, sort of. The only thing that this government has really united in, and we in the restoration have experienced many times is the unity of a certain position. A special interest partnership, which was naturally evident today in the payment of hunting fees. And there are other factors. It's true that we in Correction said both in the government that we sat in and before election that we would not rule out charges. But we always made it necessary to examine the overall situation. We also said that we were laid down under great rebukes, including some of them. from the current government class, that we wanted carbon pay. We were highly criticized for looking to the future on carbon charges because we wanted to take the environment seriously. We did not just want to take up the environmental structure and policy that, for example, would allow us to do so. The Independence Party has, led by Sigríður Andersen, which, in my opinion, has produced a particular environmental policy which is then made very clear in the government's climate program. I would've liked to see more ambition there. Maybe it's just a compromise. Nobody gets everything. It's all right. But what I wanted to say in this is that we're supposed to be united, so I'm trying to stick to the policy of transportation, trying to build up the arrangement we can count on for something future. I mean, it can control the environment as we wish, as we would in the climate itself until 2030. It is a plan established by the government and is about many good things, best to draw it out. V.E.G. A environmental minister tries to keep a course of care, although it is of course unacceptable that the climate itself does not mention the word city line, the warm potato, as I have noted. To mention the word city line is like saying the word Macbeth in the theater. A city line, which could just help us reach climate goals, both the United Nations and our own goals. She could not be remembered. That's ironic, of course. This vow is not to go straight for work, not to dare to say things as they are, because we need to promote public transportation. It's been over very well here. Our policy in restoration is to support our public transportation. It's part of promoting urban planning. This is part of improving the quality of life of the urban population, whether here or anywhere else in the country. I would also like to point out that while promoting public transport in the capital area, which is a key factor in the whole approach to the construction of traffic workers, the structure of public transport such as the city line, it is also necessary to look to the country. I'll get to that right after. All of this has been taken care of, and we follow the course that has been targeted, including the following: of the mayor. But I would also like to point out that it is a great joy to perceive the vastness of those who may. has been in Mosfellstown, the home of the highest. A president who has been a zealous spokesman for this one, one of the few within the Independence Party, can well mark and draw out what is well done. There have been prospective people in the towns around the city as well. It has been suggested that, although I had certainly wanted to see a firmer stand and a cohesion on the part of my own town authorities in Hafnarfjörður, I would have liked to see it. But that's another story. Overall, it is clear that the southwest corner focuses on the growth of public transportation. It is also to support those who want to use the car. We know that by promoting public transportation, we are also paying the way of those using the private car, outside the environmental element. Then there is what is important in this, different from me before, when court orders are said to be unattained. We have heard independents say one after the other that this is not completely clear, is unattainable. All we know is that these are tax increases. The amount of donations due to the target should not go into the structure of the target but should be distributed somehow, as this is not possible. It is taking the weight - related road transport benefits of high traffic security - we're talking about trunks in and out of the capital area - being taken and put back unless the target is fixed. The capital area is being forced, the Great extent of land, into a tax system, an unenforced tax system. Let us bear in mind that this means nothing more than a tax increase in the majority of the country's areas, a payoff by the Independence Party. These include: The mayor's memory, too, of independence responsibility. The smaller portion has shown no resistance to the ideas that are shrubs from the reefs of independence, such as this is set on a table today. It is sad to see that the government community is no greater than that, in the beginning, it is spoken of as not paying dues and paying no fees. But then the Independence Party is, in effect, forcing the secretary of transportation into a certain environment without actually leading it. I don't think anyone's gonna calm down. The worst part I find in all of this - because we have the ambition I had at the beginning to build strong transportation, whether it's public transportation or any other type of transportation in the country - is that we're missing out on the opportunity. Actually, I think we still have a chance. There's still a gap, if the government's gonna figure it out. But we are missing out on the opportunity to get all the citizens of the country with us in understanding what a new currency is about to do. We're missing the opportunity for all classes to develop a new currency system, a new system that builds up transport across the country. We should have taken the existing car payments and are also only taxes on automobile owners, reviewing concomitantly with the carbon account, as well as how we can build up environmental transport and improve the quality of life of the whole country, while trying to speed up transport. There is no secret that we need to promote money and support in transport. That's what we need to do. During our restoration, we have identified various ways to meet them. Of course, fishing costs would have been slow, and there would have been no need to mention it again. But there are other ways in which we need to point out the matter. We've said that you can take a share of the shares that the Icelandic state owns in banks, e.g. In Iceland, and turn them into infrastructure, infrastructure capital, infrastructure investment. That's when we're on the long way. But the government that has its government contract should increase respect and solidarity during the council but is not looking for solidarity, and I'm sorry. I say once again: After all the discussion here, and after listening to the metropolitan conversation, I discover a particular harmony that I feel, once again, not to see the government become the product of making use of it. It is also tragic to see this conflict between the D traveling minister and the secretary of transportation, who we know exactly who are. It's just been to make it difficult, to get it all complicated. Perhaps it would have been wishful in this matter, such as so many other matters that we are seeing in the past days and weeks, that the prime minister would have taken it because a prime minister is taking matters to heart if ministers fail to succeed. We can see that because Prime Ministers may feel that they can be better cared for, such cases as equality are taken into the Ministry of Presidency. Which is fine. We're seeing the housing arrangements taken from the secretary of the housing, the secretary of the agreements, and the owner's agreements. created collective agreements to do. They're taken into the Presidency Department. We have recently seen a discussion of food policy, where prime minister takes the initiative to meet with those who produce food in the country. And there are many other examples that can be cited as prime minister. It can be criticized. I have criticized myself that there is no particular doubt in my mind that we organize the Board of Directors according to the particular interests of prime minister. We may receive a prime minister who is interested in ocean research. Will he be taking over a Meritional Institute in his due time? I don't like it, but I understand. Prime Minister, would like to have your hands on this if other ministers fail to succeed. That's why I'd like to see her take more initiative in maintaining a view of the transport program we're discussing and taking a little bit on stage saying, "Good and good, my dear boys, now let's just take it easy and we're going to apply the whole body of Congress because I feel we can get more solidarity by applying all the classes into this situation. Let's go to what even happens. The government groups have proposed. Let us wait until the autumn as changes are being made in the fall. A new plan is being introduced. Well, then, why isn't it, chief? President, can you wait until the fall, suggest that we keep the 2019 safe, 2020 project, and then try to unite in a new and more complete arrangement in the fall that does not automatically include tax promotions, as the independent party speaks in this council today? Of course, it has never been so that the left greens were in opposition to a tax rise. It's a group that naturally wants tax increases. It is not unusual for any opposition to come on the left side of green when independents handed out this fancy tax rise package on the southwest corner. But it is even more unfortunate, in my opinion, to see how these suggestions involve yet another attempt to drive a jet between the country and its capital. Why are they going that way? Why is this not the norm? Why does the region have to face the southwestern corner of the country? Why is that so? Why could we not simply set priorities for the major projects that are key road security projects, including the region as well as the southwest corner, related to traffic safety? Or the airports. There are a lot of amateur pilots in this area. I would also want to see a much more emphasis on researching ways to achieve the economic success of internal flights in order to strengthen public transport in the country than is needed to build up a airport we have to distribute. The pressures of tourism and thus try to push the people who come here and stay a little less, allowing it to take less time to travel through the country. Why was it impossible for us to take further pride in building up, for example. The sound of flights in Akureyri, extended the base of Akureyri, with a view to trusting even more fully in the presence of tourism? We saw huge parish sites, as we did when we went to the northeastern region, where there are huge parishes. It's in my opinion the next large parish for us because of our high build up, which is very enjoyable. I repeat to people going that way, especially when the Rock Road is quite there. Then there will be tremendous opportunities. You see, it's so fun when we senators, whether southwestern corner or elsewhere, have the opportunity to have an opinion and support the settlements of the country, whether in the southwest corner or in the whole country. It is beneficial for all to speak in whole - souled about transport, road events, and flying structure. That's good for us both, who live in the southwest corner and the whole country, that we try to unite in all of this. That is why I feel so sad to see this division between rural and urban areas, between southwestern and national, the government's orders. I'm particularly sorry that this is the way it is, because we could have achieved a much better and proper agreement. I would have also wanted to see about our flights that we would take on flights near the capital. It is evident, of course, that the government will not be able to establish a partnership over where the airport should be going. But we need to keep on doing so. We need to continue with an agreement as to where the airport is going. It leaves sooner than later, and it is better that we have a view to develop it successfully and do so in the territory. For it is evident that there are more advantages to the country than the gall to move the airport either to Cheflavík or to any other place where there is a solidarity, or a purse, or something else. I'm stressing the flying issues. We are to take pride in linking our country to everything. We have that direction, including. I want to believe that most classes have a policy that we want to keep the country built. We will also need to set priorities. We have to have the courage to say that we are going to build here systematically, including, Flight transport at Isenafjörður, Eglíts and Akureyri. There has to be a discussion of charges. We were blessed to go to the Halfground tunnel, which I think everyone sees today was on a successful path. But there was another way. People could choose another way. That does not mean saying to the Skaggas now: We're going to go back to collect fees for the tunnels that you and the rest of the country have paid. Now we're going to charge you other roads through the tunnel. This does not mean offering an offer, nor does it mean inviting Southnes to take a helicopter to the country to choose a different route from the Smokey Way. Of course not. Smokeytown has become the fourth largest rural society in the country, and it is in rapid structure. It is an area that needs much more support on the part of the government, support to build up health care, other occupations than it is currently in the area. They need to be nurtured, and this will not be done by further taxation on the Southnesians or other citizens. [[The president calls.]] We need much more discussion about this. We need to win this better. Roads can be met, much more than is now being done. We're ready for that cooperation at any time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u87	Madam President. We will discuss the transport plan and our road system, which is by no means another road we live in today's world. We need to improve traffic security, ensure better traffic flows between positions, shorten distances, and focus on goals we have set for climate and community. Here at the southwest corner, there is a large task to be solved. More and more, people go to work and study, requiring improved traffic flow, traffic safety, and especially public transportation. Besides the inhabitants of the country, the main majority of tourists who come to the country from Chefjordur Airport, along the Rhine Way, to the capital area and to the country. Much of it goes through the South, where there is also a great need for action. The safety of single bridges and all too narrow roads in the South East is very dangerous, as the examples show us. An effort has been made in the sense of monotonous bridges that have had some better effects on some extent, but there is still no experience of a reduction in traffic speed at monotonous bridges, which hopefully will turn out well. The development of new funding initiatives is being done with increasing progress towards the target in transport and rural management groups as well as the development of financial resources for new implementations. The list of major committees shows that a greater proportion of the guests represented by the committee used a payout idea, if this could speed up projects, fees would be moderate, and purpose clear. I agree with what it says. Although I have to describe my frustration by describing the changes in the majority of the sector's budget, the budget for new road construction around the Hornland River is being made back in the plan. The road to the road will not only shorten the road but also increase the intense local traffic security by reducing about three monotonous bridges, as well as by increasing the road to new standards and security standards. I trust, as has been noted many times in the discussion, that the strategy proposed will be reviewed immediately in the fall when ideas of new financing initiatives have been submitted and approved. But to other transport. This refers to bicycle riding, which has not been given much space during the discussion. I would like to agree that it is good to improve the position of bicycle riding on the southwest corner. The proposals put 1.5 billion in the 20191⁄223 and decline as the period passes through the 15 - year schedule. It is estimated that a major part of that budget is going to a root system in the capital area, but it also points to the need for a footpath in the region. I'd like to remind you that along the road, it's necessary to put you in a better position because every summer, or as soon as we go to spring, there's a great danger because of tourists coming to us and riding the ring, I don't talk about when there's a great conflict like WOW cyclothon and other things going on. This is very dangerous. Regarding public transportation, I agree with the greater part that it is urgent that they exist in all parts of the country. I also feel that the parts of the country are linked together with public transportation all over the world so that they can be practical for tourists, students, and other residents who want to travel through the country and do business that way. The discussion has spoken about how long it takes to take bus fare, e.g. From Reykjavík to Akureyri or Eglish Status. I would like to emphasize that there are people who want to travel within the country. This is not to say that every trip on land on public transportation is from Reykjavík; it also takes people between parts of the country. In flights and airports. I agree with the appeals of the majority of the Committee on Flight issues. It is necessary to highlight the construction of the backup flights in Akureyri, Eggls, and in Reykjavík as well as allow less planes in international flights to land on the Hornfjord, in the Western Islands, and in Isafjordur. It spreads tourists across the country, relieves the stress of Keflavík Airport, and increases flight security. Air travel spending in the country is largely based and interests for the inhabitants of the region, which live the longest of the capital area. In the country, flight costs are very expensive and pay full fare to individuals from 12 years of age. The labor unions have met up with their unions, and they have paid inflation prices, but let us remember that 12 - year - olds do not pay for unions. One ticket, general flight rate, to the Hornground, costs 27,700 bucks. for a 12-year-old. There's no subsidies available. It is, therefore, a joy to be involved in implementing a national subsidies system to a Scottish model. There's one thing I want to come up with about porting, and there's a sandcutter outside the Horn Plan. The government's cost of 60% is expected, but I can see it moved me to point out that this is not a porting project but a monument to influence the traffic security of ships around the Hornlands, outside the reach, and should therefore be fully funded by the state. Finally, I want to use this opportunity and remind me of an urgent, unprovable transport project, but the forces of nature reminded us greatly on the last Monday. There's a tunnel under the Ringhön that replaced the Road through the Whales and Handicaps. There were about 80 people on two buses, milk trucks, trucks, and nine trucks locked up between avalanches last Monday, but they were rescued from the circumstances of the snowing system of Vega. Thanks to the fact that the time did not end badly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u88	Madam President. We'll discuss a transport plan here and especially a road stop. Roadtoll definition is this way: ▪ A prize paid by drivers is a price from a road, a corridor, or a bridge. Other roads are funded by taxes or by special fuel tax, heavy tax, and/or tire curses. Although we are not here dealing with direct taxes per se, this flash process is rather a subtly way to draw money out of the public population because no government contract shows that the nation is not to be weighed down by such roads. Rather, it shows that the government's wealth can be used for that purpose. As this program has repeatedly pointed out during the last two days, this currency will only bite those to whom it belongs. Thus, the major part's operation directly counters the increase in social equality, and it offers more things to be led by the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. It is contrary to the nation's will, as seen in the surveys, as well as in the abundance of reports received by a environmental and transport committee on the case. In all, some 1,500 envelopes were received, and 95% of them expressed opposition to the government's plan to pay dues. Similarly, polls have shown that 54% of the population are opposed and only 32% support the operation. But why? Why has the government decided to go this way now under cover of darkness, first before the annual convention, where the opposition had to put forth effort to postpone the case so that it could be done better within the council? The one present seems to be that the welfare of the government, such as a national fund - which I can absolutely agree to be the key subject to attack - has been put ahead of funding the structure of the road system necessary to attack for the life and health of this nation. I don't think it's the same as building up the country's roads that make them safe to the passengers to whom they need to go. I want to refer here to the highest words. A few days ago, financial and economic ministers at the Parliament's Hall claimed that he had no considerable concern that there was some imminent financial collapse in the maps. All right. But let us now consider what it says in the topic of national treasure: ▪ The aim of these laws is to trust the financial resources of the state in order to meet the consequences of major unforeseen events ready for the national community. I find it hard to see why the government decides to prioritize events beyond those that are truly anticipated. It is anticipated that the current conditions will cause the people living here to experience serious accidents and serious tragedies, land, and nation. Although I've made it clear at the outset that there's no tax involved, there's actually some kind of tax work to be done, such as this. paritaprevir Katrín's Þorgerður was spoken of earlier. Whether to be taxes or not is a matter of word - of - word debate, however, because these payments will still be at the expense of daily life in the country and will be weighed down on the most efficient groups of society. It has been discussed in the discourse during the past few days, and it was expressed in the words of the highest. Secretary of transportation. By permission of the President, I'm going to give you the highest word. This is the Council of Transport here at the Council of December: ▪ Why do we need to pay for such things? Yes, it is. Because in the government's action programme on climate, energy exchange, we have been assured that the next year's fuel and diesel income will be rapidly decreasing. Those incomes will not be sufficient for the roads that we in general accept. On the other hand, it appeared here last night in the public address. paritaprevir Róka Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdóttir that the energy exchange is not nearly as fast as expected and hoped. The senator's speech showed that only 1% of the fleet is already electric or linking trucks. As we look at the history of electrical vehicles and energy exchanges in this country, it turns out that since 2014, we have reached only the fleet's electrical vehicle system into this 1%. Sadly, it is difficult to see how reasoning works. A secretary of transportation is holding. He said that they had become convinced that the government's income from gasoline and diesel costs would rapidly decline for the next few years. I allow myself, a respectable president, to question the ultimate claim. Minister in the light of this slow development in energy exchange, unfortunately. I'm just gonna end it up a little bit more positively, but I started my case. It was very nice to hear last night's executives speak for the growing bickering here within the country. Then he spoke. paritaprevir Haraldsdóttir of the importance of looking for us. No doubt it is. A senator pointed out, more complicated when outside the city line. But inside the city market, it's totally traced and something we have to attack and it's a big, important step on climate issues in Iceland. We do not need to travel far in order to see the genius, the genius, the development, and the means of transportation. We only have to go to Copenhagen, and the weather may not be much better than this. There is a whole variety of people around bicycles and bicycle trails. There people are riding bicycles in their daily lives, and they are not necessarily used as an excuse to have children, where people only carry bicycle carts on the back of their bicycles, so they can move their children from place to place. I said I'd end it on a positive note. I lied. I'm going back on these roads and how fast this has been pushed through the council, or I'm trying to push it through the council. It has lacked the necessary diagnostic work to take place. Like what? paritaprevir During the day, Víglundsson pointed out that it would have taken many years for other countries to make such a huge change. It is shocking to see this kind of government. This is uncomfortable for the council. This is uncomfortable for the nation. Reminds a little bit of pressure to shorten high school without necessary diagnostic work being done on how it might affect e.g. Students. We now see that their spiritual well - being is deteriorating. I would have liked to see proper diagnostic work done, well done, that the matter wasn't as neglected as it is, unfortunately, in spite of the two days that we've had here and conversation with the environment and transportation committee. I would have wanted men to be more careful, I want to criticize it first and foremost.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u89	Madam President. We're here on a transport plan. When it is done at the council, it is about 70-80% of the U.S. Congress that wants to express themselves on the subject, which tells us how important it is for all of us - transportation and the way they are prepared for us. I'm gonna go through this fast, we're here to finish the discussion and cut the clock short. Likely, most views have come forward, and many are beginning to say the same thing. Of course, we individually want to share our viewpoints. Clearly, the transport program has been set up, some 190 billion. Of these, about 160 billion take up maintenance and roads in the next five years. The nature of the case is determined by the work programme and by the speed of implementation. A lot of energy and a lot of time have been spent talking about other financing routes in this relationship, and I'm not going to discuss it at all, but I'm going to leave that up to us here. I would have wanted us to take that discussion in the fall along with a transport plan so that people can see the benefits, the ones that are supposed to lead. It is always a bit more complicated to take matters apart when it is meant to connect directly to something else. However, I was going to mention roads that could lead to other methods of financing other than those traditional Oozmas and Fjords. From there we have directly received a wish for such things to be done. I think that's one of the things we need to listen to, too, i.e. that the people living in the more scattered regions need a faster structure of transport than we can stand for with the funds we have. It is so, as noted in a prior head report, that although we would lay everything that is involved, it would still not be enough to fill the hole. Not to be overlooked is the fact that only part of the budget is being handled, that there is, of course, something else that enjoys their resources. Money goes to health care, they go to the Association, they go to a variety of health care providers, etc. - which isn't unusual. There are a number of ways in which the schedule and priorities set out here are based first and last on security. Corporate roads are being referred to where funding are being provided. It is suggested that the amount of money be used in areas where residents, including children, are on a daily route to work and school and then travel into the highlands. We also refer to counting, so we have more information about people who do things not necessarily take part in the discussion on a daily basis. These counts are said to have to be improved in view of the changed behavior of tourists. We know that the weight of traffic has increased greatly. I'm glad that the greater portion of the project is going to be rushed for two perimeters, yearneshreps on the beach and Langanes on the northeast corner, along with the road to hunting necks, and then improvements in the way of Langanes Beach, along with the construction of Brecknach. This is one of the things that have been called after a very long time and that is an enormous need when we are moving to all kinds of services and pushing them. Even when we're trying to make it possible for people to live where they are. This is partly linked, as indicated by the opinion of the greater part, to the approval of the government in November. Suggested growth based on the Backflakes. The committee had discussed these matters and had suggested them. That's where we even came from. to suggest that the workload in Langanes Beach should be completed and that this year's work would be started. After that, it will be after the Brenches. This can make a big difference in maintaining an area in which to live. I'm also going to talk about footpaths, as we've just been talking about. The last speaker did so too, about bicycles and footpaths. We see an enormous change, and countless people are making good use of their bicycle for work as well. I don't remember whether it was found that a lot more bikes for work than using bus, I thought it was interesting. They're now making such a path from Akureyri into the Eyjafjorda. It is an area where death has occurred and the importance of getting bicycle riders off the road that follows. This is clearly one of the factors that promote a healthy life - style, fostering environmental transport, and helping us in climate. As for the public transportation, they've only been tore here. I'm generally worried about public transportation. I was in Finland during the days, and since there was talk of a city line, I thought with myself, since their city line drove around in the snow: Since the Finns can do this, we can probably do this so well. But public transportation between parts of the country, from Akureyri to Reykjavík, or from Olafured to Eglur position or what it is - the time it takes, the frequency of travel, and so forth, is not to say that it is a real civilization. It's not normal to be 10◯12 hours on the way to take six or seven, that you are nearly half as long. I think most of us agree on that. From this, we need to solve the fact that I think it's very important that we have public transportation. I think people use it when they become real that it will be more practical for you to take public transportation than to go in the private car alone and when your travel time is comparable. I'd also like to mention what's going on about dealing with societies and their societies when it comes to construction. Here's the deal. Things aren't good enough. A better course is needed. Granted, it is not true that the road type is a matter of security and aggressive about what the national body would like to do first, but it must be possible to weigh a little together. I would like to mention the safety of young people on these roads and young people who are taking their first steps - but also just throughout the countryside, where students are traveling in school cars on different good roads. This is something we should consider and put first. The same thing I'd like to say about winter service. Since I live in an area where it's very important, I know it can matter. When winter service was to be cut down in the northeast area of a meeting year, I remember, resurrected, and unable to accept it. Of course, we do know that the road structure has a budget to cut, but we also need to think about it when we are making money. Then there's the flight. Here's my partner, huh? paritaprevir Private Friðbertsson, I want you to be very comfortable with flying. I'm just gonna tell you right now that I think we should take good care of these airports, build up airports, and international flights. One of the most important things we need to deal with in this regard is the fact that we can take care of these matters properly. It was also nice to remind you of the backup airports, the medical flights, and all that we need. Then we also need a Reykjavík airport to be okay while there is no alternative. I am glad to see that the greater part emphasizes that it will be maintained and built up until the end of the year. I have to talk about the subsidies of domestic flight costs and the carbon tracks surrounding it, which have only been discussed here. The situation here mentioned has not been driven to the point that there is a need for more than 2.7 passengers in a mid - public car. Of course, not necessarily a type of car or something is defined. They said there was only 1% of methane or tvin or power cars, so it's clear that the car fleet is still being targeted as it is today. It's also something that isn't necessarily meant to be forever, but it's something we're experimenting with to correct the situation of those who are most remote, and it's extremely important. I encourage all who have doubts about peering onto the national flights to see what people say on Facebook. It's just about four trips a year, that's all that's up. It's not that many people put everything on their side. We are to do this along with building better infrastructures that have everything to do with everything else, whether in health care or something like that. A respectable president. We had agreed not to talk for a long time, and I'm not going to go beyond what I was supposed to do. I now express my joy in the fact that this transport program is here. She is fully rewarded as she was put forward in the fall with the suggestions that have been made here. This does not change that it can be done better, and on it we hope to find a solution when we are ours or fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u90	A respectable president. The premise for sustainable communities is that transportation is easy. Transport systems need to take into account the needs of society and its inhabitants, both for employment, for services, and for culture, so that the mobility of people will be improved. All of these are requirements set out by modern society for basic services in each area. The transport program is now being discussed in the 2019 20203 years ago. There is a source of the Commission's opinion of the Environment and Transport Committee, which has worked hard and is grateful. The aim of the transport programme is clear: That the EU's transport system would integrate and serve people and commercially. There are a number of ways of doing so, and it seems to be different. Throughout the year, transportation is essential to the growth of employment and innovation throughout the country. In the West, a new industry is studying land, and it is a fish fire. The country's largest exports are said to have fish farming. Already, the land will be divided by sea - based fishing conditions. It's on the West, Eastern and Eyjafjordy. Clearly, the larger portion is estimated to be in the West Sea. Clearly, then, it is ahead of the extensive development of the sector that will bring economic benefits and provide transportation with a convenient basis for success. In a more efficient transport program, Western roads are now being introduced to other generations, thereby creating southern Western soils for modern living. This is a means by which financial means and transport programs are financed. It begins with an animal tunnel, a construction site on Daringður Island, and a new road around the Gufudal Squadron. There the transport program supports the economic growth that takes place on the West and ensures the basis for security. Structural development has improved quality and transport between defined work areas should be improved and increased where possible. This contributes to the growth of jobs within and between parts of the country. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir mentioned that in the committee opinion, a greater proportion of the project would be used to speed up the implementation of two border areas, i.e. Coastal and Langanes' settlements along the northeast corner, along the way through a hunting necklace, and reciprocated through the Langanes coast. This is also important for innovation and employment development in areas where people live in a less populated area. Transport is everybody's concern. We look forward to great changes. The number of transport systems in the country has increased. Shipping has moved ashore. The number of tourists on the roads of the country has increased, and there have been significant improvements in services, and changes in employment are facts that significantly alter traffic flows. That's the key to security. It is expected to speed up construction projects at stockways that are not tolerated, including due to unacceptable traffic safety. Traffic has changed faster than previously anticipated transport programmes. Hence, the transport plan is the speed - moving action it proclaims. It is a pleasure to see that the main policy for transport is to emphasize root - track out of the capital, and now the base network of roads on the West coast is to be completed. In general, the main development of the programme is to ensure the safety of road users as well as the building and ensuring of improved transport systems. A respectable president. The government has set ambitious goals on climate and aims to assess all the larger Kingdom plans on climate goals. By means of a supplementary schedule, it is expected to be involved in this objective, with the permission of a president: It should be delayed to allow transport to become environmentally sustainable and to reduce the global environmental impacts of transport. Energy exchanges are being used in transport. This means that new income institutions have to be defined, and other changes need to be taken into account by the changing world. For transport workers, there has been some reports of payment when looking for personal action and quick treatment. In order to speed up transport activities, there is a process of reimbursement that is useful to specific workers. Such remuneration of individual manpowers allows space in a transport program and can be used more quickly than expected. Then we're talking about speeding up edifications across countries that have reached a point of time with no waiting. To achieve the aims of the transport programme for ensuring legal and safe living across the country, you need to have the courage to make a decision regarding the changed income farms without compromising other basic services, such as health or education systems. In the context of my committee of environment and transport, it is said that the sudden ideas of the majority of the budget have changed the work in which the committee was working and that professional work of the Commission was prevented in a transport program. I'm surprised that it is not part of the professional work of the Committee to review the new road of financing, and it certainly has been an idea for some time. The individuals listed here have not been able to review all the reports received from a transport program, since they are running into thousands. Clearly, the discussion is great, so much more than strange if the charges had not been taken into consideration. There are many envelopes that deal with the charges, and you hear what I've been doing since they've been introduced, that they give you some satisfaction because people want to make more safety, better roads, and quick treatments. A few of them. The members of the smaller section have come up and referred to taxation and food holes that can be drawn up to build up our roads. It has been called hunting fees and bank taxes. As stated in 1st paragraph. they are expected to meet the government's costs for research, control and control of fishing, and are now proposed to contribute to the development of transport workers. They may be raised to that end. I don't know how the smaller part is going to make a general agreement about that financing route. A respectable president. The main objective of transport management is to make transport practical. Long-term transport efficiency is being improved by the safety of road users, by shortcuts, by shortcuts, by shortcuts, by reduced number of road users, and by the number of landways. I welcome an ambitious transport plan and hope that it will soon be accomplished.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u91	Madam President. At this point, the transport program has been discussed, so I'm going to use this opportunity to talk only about the phenomenon of changing my mind. It is both positive and yielding to change of mind, but it is beneficial to have certain conditions met, in order to conclude that new information has developed that proves to be wrong. It is also fine that people have not been so preconceived that people can count on the fulfillment of promises. This is especially important in politics, which is a key element for voters to be assured that what is said for elections will not be completely wronged by what is done after election. Of course, there is always some room for improvement, and it is necessary, but when they make a clear claim, someone may call it a lie or hypocrisy when they say that they are so firmly following it without any statement that justifys such a conversion. Madam President. So I don't speak under a rose, it's right that I'm aware of what I'm referring to. On October 24, 2017, the conversation of candidates to the Generals in the Southern District of Channel 1 was conducted. The question was asked: Should hairs be set up to implement these projects? A VG agent did not say that VG was in favor of roads but needed to build up the transport system. Then it was said that there was a plan to get the money. They were asked by a participant: "If anyone has a charge, raise his hand. Not only did no one raise the hand of the ten representatives gathered there but I pointed to the strange fact that representatives of the Independence Party did not raise their hands in the light of what had been discussed, including. of what? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, up until now. That's when it hit me. paritaprevir The word Páll Magnússon said that the independent party had failed to pay dues. He said, with President's permission: It is not the policy of the Independence Party to pay dues. All members of the Independence Party in this district are opposed to paying due fees. The Minister of Transport has not spoken for the charges. V.E.G. Minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson said, with permission of the president: We're against charges. We're going to use rich resources, we're going to put 10 billion into transportation. He said that there is enough money to be made, which is, in fact, right. People generally spoke against their expenses, and some now talk with them. Therefore, the voters of the South Sea ask why. The members of the greater part, Páll Magnússon, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Ásgerður K. Gylfadóttir and Vilhjálmur Árnason, whether this is consistent with the promises made before elections, including. of the above factors. It may also be asked, " Has something happened in the meantime that caused them to change their mind, because changing our mind is very good if new information is received that may reveal that you were wrong? ' I've been looking for some new information that might justify such a conversion. I have searched, I have listened to talks, and I have not yet found any new information that was not there in 2017 - and even much longer - that can justify that transformation. It is proper to finance a number of projects that have sat on the back, including completing a double Sveinjanes Way as well as a new Grand Way, completing a double on the Hellishe road to Selephos, removing alone bridges all the way to Hornfjörður, so I can keep to the South Cathedral. There is also enough work to do in other ideals and very good work waiting, whether it is a city line in Reykjavík or a tunnel in the West or in the East, so that it is not spoken of the importance of building up a situation for public safety first and last but also for better service in the country. But general charges will not solve any problems that exist in Iceland. You see, you're right. On October 24, 2017, the secretary of transportation said that the remainder of the state's budget was sufficient to implement the needed projects. Even though the rest was not enough, the fact is that the funds of the state's funds and economic situation at the moment give rise to considerable investments in the infrastructure. There has finally been a slight drop in production power, and it would naturally be that the state would invest in road construction and other projects to take advantage of that relaxation rather than letting the public down in the form of a lower level of employment and a worse dresser. That would be normal. It would be a natural approach, to build faster when the system is relaxed, even if it costs a little debt, because it will pay back when the economy takes full flight. I'm not saying the economy isn't flying all the time, but we're supposed to use it for a little bit. First, let us note that the debt is very small. It is less than the debt of the Norwegian State even, as a factor in gross national product. Yet, a government fund may technically be able to see the entire debt paid if it would be reasonable, but that is not wise. The other is that, in fact, spending money on the part of the State is the means to get a chance to the economy of building up. That is the purpose of the financial expenses. The purpose of taxes is to use, not to finance a government fund, but to pave up inflation. At any rate, we are in the position that it is the government's aim to establish what I would like to call an internal border in Iceland in the form of roads, which limits the freedom of people to their economy. Some people will simply no longer be able to afford to live in the village or in Whosora or in the Volgum and drive to Reykjavík in the morning if they do. Of course, there is not a bill to do such a thing, but that's for sure. It's not a review process, so we don't know exactly how it will be, but at least the greater part of the Council seems to think that due payment is the solution the nation has sought. I say no. The standard of justice given is that they should be the speed of building wood, which every government after its collapse has omitted the construction of the building blocks. People believe, but people don't. People know exactly how this works, especially those who drive the Smokey Way every morning and maybe everyone who doesn't drive the Sunway every morning. Taking up general charges seems to be primarily a step toward the privatization of the road system, which violates the principle that national infrastructure is generally available to the public regardless of the economic situation. Yes, people still have to have a car or they can take a bus, but the charges themselves are publicized, that they can live where they choose, without having to set their own standards in an unusual way. At the same time as possible, the Independence Party will use their existence as an excuse to reduce transport contributions. We know that's the case because that's how it's had so many registrations over the years. That's a lot of contraband, Madam President. It's a methodology. The basis of wood should not be funded by special charges. The idea of social infrastructure is that everyone can take advantage of it for his own benefit and for the community. The public charges on the highways of the country are in force on the inner border. It discourages travel, imposes economic limits on people's freedom of movement, and undermines communities. These are geographic boundaries, and I protest them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u92	Madam President. We'll discuss a proposal for a resolution of a five-year transport programme, 20191⁄223. First, I'd like to thank the Chairman of the Committee and Vice President for their excellent work. There have been numerous members of the Committee meeting, as indicated in the opinion of the committee, and there is a great deal of work behind this well - worked work that is being done for my judgment. It's a pleasure to read through this committee opinion, it's very thorough and it's good to me. As we know, the accumulated problems are very common. I would also like to thank the Committee for making peace with them in making the most of the needed improvements. I'd like to thank the chairman of the Committee for taking a stand on the original plans of the government that went out much slower, as such. as far as the Smokey Way and the Southland Road. It did not stand to complete these projects until after 20 years. It's been changed. The same is true of the major roads on the West to be made over a much longer period of time. I welcome the Chairman's initiative in taking a stand and changing these plans. That's fine, I think. We know that the pressures on the highways of our country are especially due to the great and increasing flow of tourism we have enjoyed in recent years. It means that the pressures on these roads have been multiplied. By the end of 2017, 2.2 million tourists have arrived in the country, and a large number of them travel in rental cars. Then there are the natural buses and everything that comes with the tourist flow across the country. Of course, this has a profound effect on the transportation system. On page 18. 3 discusses the state's income of the oil and fuel costs that will help reduce the future because they reduce the number of vehicles using fossil fuels. I agree that it is urgent to take up the discussion of how we visualize farms that have similarly reduced the number of electric cars with no fees. This has only come on the board of budgetary committees, and I accept the emphasis that the greater part places on reevaluation of the general fees. It's important. It will then show that there is a need to ensure that such a payout as a road tax does not increase car owners' costs. I'll take my mind off that. But that is what it says on page 18. 3 to ensure that road costs do not increase car owners' costs beyond the benefits of facilitated and safe traffic flow and improved environment. I think it's a little hairy. The middle class highlights this in this discussion - and it is a prime measure that the class makes with this body's decision - that there will be a decrease of spells if this taxing concept becomes possible, a charge such as automobile fees and other fees that are very high as we know about car owners and the use of cars. If we're only going to pay the fee, i.e. roadways, says that the majority also stress that currency will be provided in terms of national equality and that visitors coming to the country will be involved in the construction of the transport system. Of course, it is only natural for them to participate. It is up to you to see that there is good experience with the Haggard tunnel in this regard. I think we're just gonna have to take it on a little notice. This isn't exactly the right comparison for me to know. We know this, as it has been, that the currency of the Haggard tunnel, which was very controversial at the outset, has provided a significant contribution to this fine and efficient transport system, such as. To the West, and to all that travel north. However, this is not quite comparable to my opinion because it has the choice to go to the Hagland, compared with the planned exchange of major initiatives from the capital area, e.g. Smoke track, where there's no choice. In that respect, it is not quite comparable to me. On page 18. 5 discusses the major currency of three main institutions, the Smokey Way to the Cheflavour Airport, Southland Road, and the Westland Road, from the capital area. I'd like to take a little closer to this side of the road. We see it naturally, and we know it's a big deal. It's a tax system that's gonna make a difference to all the people in the country. And as I mentioned, there are already great taxes on cars. In this case it is a significant increase in tax returns if the bill is at the highest level. A secretary of transportation has declared it legally in the spring months. It is of interest to note how this matter will come about without further exposure to the cost of installing and operating cameras and collecting expenses. Let us not forget that the tax was not on the agenda for the last election and is not in the government covenant. This is gonna come in a little bit unexpectedly. It may be possible, e.g. The expected presence of a camera monitor may result in significant costs. I know that Sweden collected a so - called strict tax from those who drive into the centre of Stockholm. Technology and the expense of that network cost no less than 40 billion dollars. It needs to be taken very closely into account where all the development and management costs associated with possible road blocks in this country are expected to reduce the weight of general users. It is minimally necessary that all administrations are more careful about these ideas on roadtolls. Today's suggestions are unproved, and it is important for the public to arrive at these suggestions if they are to be reconciled. It's controversial in the community. In these areas, there is also equality and environmental objectives. There are new taxes on car owners, on top of the super taxes, that are on the property and the business of the household car. History now tells us that taxes on which we are charged are rarely retracted. I would like to mention in the case of the car charge, which was imposed 30 years ago, on the initiative of equals. It was supposed to be temporary for one year to meet a budget at that time, but it is still a people 30 years later and it returns less than 8 billion dollars. from automobile owners' pocket to state funds every year. It can also be mentioned by the carbon account, which was first placed on automobile owners in 2010. That year it gave $1 billion. This year it will bring back the state funds of 3.7 billion. More and more money is not available to environmental matters. Sports fear that roads will not just be used. I certainly hope it will, but there are examples that prove otherwise. What's interesting about this, too, is the forward shift in terms of charges. The party led the last election to what was more aggressive than paying off charges, and it was very difficult to see that the band was not in favor of roads. It's quite interesting to see this transformation at the highest level. A secretary of transportation in this matter. These ideas have been criticized by Icelandic car owners, especially since they lack the expense analysis of the benefits of installing, instigating, and running this collection system. There we need to look at factors such as the value of taxes, the collection of fees, and other cost of business. The cost of income and how much collect will cost consumers is uncertain. All of this needs to be discussed and covered carefully. FIB is concerned that there are new taxes on the families of the country, and it provides the basis for the fact that already 80 billion car owners are charged by taxes and fees. There are clearly increased spells in the homes, and I secondhandly reiterate that the Central Party stresses that if this is to happen, other charges must be turned down. That's what I'm paying for. I'm going to add a little bit of this and mention some discrimination based on a farm that's a concern to my opinion, that this remuneration does not occur by reflecting the use of the ways that will fall under planned construction sites. There the road charges are naturally fixed on those living near the capital area and having to drive past depositors or cameras every day. Many will also drive a short chapter of the procedures planned for construction. Then there's an equal thing in it. Men may be paying a relatively small amount of money at the same time that a large part of the country may get out of paying these fees, even if the person uses one of the country's highways just as much as the people who have to pay. Then, according to the above, the cost of building is sound. It can be a heavy, sophisticated system of things. So there is much to consider in this regard and to expect that it is difficult for many to live up to high financial expenses for this, especially the loss of income. Also, it is the remuneration of foreign tourists that are specifically stated to be involved. Some of the tourists come on their own cars to the country, so there's a solution on how to collect it and then they can collect stress bills, fines due to neglect, etc. Be both complex and expensive. That's what I wanted to say about a planned currency, a roadtoll. Next, I will enter the chapter on page 20. 10 of the public transportation outside the capital area. It shows that the implementation of public transport between and within the national part of the country was extensive. Then, according to Vega's work, contracts were extended in 2019 and ended, says here. But they also say that the South was out of the deal. There's been differences between the state and the Union in the United States. What they say about this is not at all worth the effort. There was a covenant proposal from the Southern Union on how it would be best to pay a considerable amount of money and to improve the quality of the ministry. The road was ready for that, but the Ministry wasn't. It's a matter of thought, of course, the stiffness of the Ministry. It is urgent that the matter be resolved, for this arrangement has proved to be successful. But there has certainly been nods, especially due to a tilt that is urgent to be solved. I'd just like to step aside from the affairs of the flight. A fine section shows that there is no waiting to start working with increased flight security through the prosthesis of the reserve flights. I want to think about this whole thing. It's, for example. very important to finish your flight barn in Akureyri. There are also security reasons if Keflavík Airport closes, as well as smaller airlines waiting for a location connected to the airport. I'll agree with this. The same is true of Egils and a driving track there. It is essential to implement them. The next article will discuss the fact that the greater part wants less planes on a international flight to land on the Hornfjord and in the Western Islands and on Isafjordur, and I agree to do so. This is very important and, of course, can lighten the country's roads. It also discusses the importance of considering the needs of a flight program that is an important part of the design of the flight, and I agree with it. It is now, for example. Almost any flight experience is moving to Keislis in the old defense zone, where the use of the airport is difficult because the international flights are natural. It is urgent to find a place for teaching flights. And I'd also like to welcome the ideas that are presented here to subsidize air cover within the country. This is an important national matter, and it is a good thing that the committee emphasizes it. Then we will see on page 19. 16 In the section on Marine Prevention and ports, rising funds will be devoted to the construction of sand prisoners on the Hornfjords. I think it's very important that we and the Ministry are aware of the need that the cruise route outside the Horn Planos is acceptable throughout the year. If not, the future of the oceans is at risk. A safe passage into the harbor is essential for further construction of the seas on the Cape. Otherwise, the good companies that are looking for another one are prepared to do so. Madam President. I see my time is coming to an end. I've been able to review the main points, and I want to thank you for a good discussion of this important matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u93	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a future transport program, one on five years of transport, and then a multi-annual arrangement for a 15-year transport program in 2019-52033. There has been a great debate in society over transport and mainly on the ideas of remuneration and how we see changes in the economics of the future. Many times, I feel that the discussion has come quite far from what is discussed here, i.e. from the transport program we're setting up here. In the opinion of the greater part of the arraignment. The environment and transport committees are certainly expressed as terms of remuneration in relation to an important project that is requested to speed up, but they are actually just at the level of ideas. These are changes in the progress of projects for the next two years, the development of projects, and the budget between periods, which, of course, step forward but, in itself, are less variable when considering. No matter where the discussion of transport is covered, the reviews on this big issue and on the case of the committee's guest, that action is needed in road work on all parts of the country, both that are involved in the maintenance and implementation of all roads, as it is said, and it is also considered extremely important to increase the pace of the projects we see ahead of time in the programmes we are considering. A cumulative problem is great and has occurred in recent years. In the wake of the collapse, financial contributions to the seminary and financing were not in accordance with the need at all. Thus, to form winter services and road markings, a gathering of country's maintenance needs is a great need, as well as a need for new and expanding services. During the same period, traffic has increased substantially, including Due to the increased number of tourists, but last year's traffic increased by 11%. As a result, the demand for easy and safe transport has increased substantially throughout the year, and it constantly makes for greater success. About this position all political groups were aware of over a year in their campaigns and the highest. Government and supreme. A secretary of transportation, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, has certainly set in motion a significant improvement in the seminary and will launch into the necessary structure, necessary new projects, such as twice the capital and the capital areas, through the Westway, through Kjalarnes, on the Southland road, on the Smokey Way, but at the expense of them alone, some 60 billion dollars are considered. In comparison, the 2019 transport funds are nearly 42 billion. With that amount of money, it takes 10 years to meet the estimated total investment needs, and it shows up in the members' list of the total holdings of the sector, 3,50,4400 billion bucks. It's a simple balance bill that I cross over to control, for of course it's not that simple, because all projects bring up expensive maintenance. It's a lot of money, a respectable president, and I think we have to bury the discussion. As noted, Iceland is a rural country, so the road system is vast, compared with the population population and we don't live anywhere near neighboring countries. To figure out the scope, consider the 2017 GPA. This first-time road system, in addition to some of the dockers, is introduced into the process of international accounts allowing for, i.e. to make investments in transport edifications. The road system is thus moved into the books of the Roadmaking and then moved as part of the holdings of a government fund and is evaluated by groups with varying lengths of extensions, but major groups are considered for possession, such as. Lands and fills, subsidies, farms, and fences. In addition, there are sewers, signs, and carved gates, along with corridors and bridges, so it is pretty well listed in the individual property. It says that a reevaluation of the founding value of the road system is some 800 billion dollars. and the unwritten portion of that 565 billion francs. For 2017, copies were 9.4 billion. Such accounting is a big step forward, providing a clearer picture of the composition and the appropriate scope, and especially the need for the maintenance that is made up of such assets. The pressures on the system have increased, and heavy shipments have increased - the greater the number of cars, the greater the number of road breaks - and the number of tourists traveling around. Jóhannes Þór Skúlason, director of the Association for travel service, has pointed out, and rightly so, that in recent years, tourism and the increase make it possible for a discussion of speedy progress and the level of projects to be funded faster and earlier. He points out, as many have done on the Havenan tunnel to support it, but it was paid earlier than anticipated, but less than 3 million road users pass the road but not 340,000. We tend to talk about this growth in a negative tone, in terms of growth, but I don't think that's the case. Of course, we rejoice in the growth and prosperity of the article, and it is vital that we achieve a solidarity in the process of making progress, with a specific exchange if necessary. It is important to achieve a solidarity over such things. It is important that we provide these ideas in this regard in order to facilitate traffic and to increase traffic security and thus speed up projects. Because I mention the tourism service here, it must be prepared properly in cooperation with the sector, but one of the nuclear factors in tourism is transportation. I rejoice, therefore, that the organization of tourism is taking the initiative to work out solutions with the government. The transport services organization has already taken the initiative to cooperate with the transport and rural management department for these factors and is not advisable unless the time is taken. It may be most important, before the beginning, if ideas of rapid implementation become reality, to give everyone the opportunity to realize things and work together in such solutions so as to make peace with such decisions and to make them work. In fact, I feel as if the number of road costs, increase taxation, and the extra taxation of automobile owners has exceeded the proposals we discuss in this transport program, while at the same time in the leading branch section, it can address that these ideas can be established before careful implementation of a specific bill from the highest level. A secretary of transportation will be here for the council. For transport funding, energy exchange and future development need to be considered and taken into account. It has to be that we will not be left behind with such transitions when the income of gasoline and oil costs inevitably fall together, and the revenues will be down to the effort to take place, for what we have seen before in the past decade is that the problem will increase to the future and we will not be able to reach the tail with the abundant need for maintenance, let alone obtaining needed needs and urgent innovations within the time frame called. Thus, it must be possible to agree with the trial presented in the leading committee list by permission of the president: ▪ The more part feels that there will be a rapid response to the problems raised over the past few years that will be targeted at improving road and transport as rapidly as possible in terms of the practicality, climate targets, equality, and security issues. It is important to look for ways to speed up the most urgent road to transport. More is being done here than making up what everyone agrees to do, the transport program before the council. It also points out that based on economic growth, it is less relaxed to develop in the economy, which causes situations to be carried out without stability and the demand for normal economic growth to be disturbed, thus building on economic and economic economic economic economic growth in the country. Under these circumstances, a respectable president can be taken. The majority, in turn, take an important and convincing argument that it may be wise to speed up the process being proclaimed in a transport program, which suggests that it is wise to make progress. on the commitment between Iceland and climate change, the importance of energy exchange, which is designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, as it says. Thus, specific currency, moderate tax costs, can speed up the progress of such projects into better, more efficient roads, thus driving and driving with less spending and cost. Perhaps it is most important to consider the overall price exchange, the general expenditures such as oil and gasoline, and the price of automobiles, i.e. that there is no excess in the benefits of such projects. Such an overall review is inevitable until later, that work is already under way under government guidance. The schedule is now, in contrast with what has often been done, in accordance with budget, policy, and therefore is up - to - date and there are no changes between discussions. Is it good and positive that the government budget is working in the process of communicating plans, that there is a harmonization between policy plans, implementation and funding, as agreed upon when these laws were adopted here at the General Assembly, i.e. of long - term thinking, stability and discipline in the implementation of budgets, as well as the trust of the International Parliament to set the goals of government and government funds that are fundamental to the making of budgets. The current plan, as it is available here, is fully in line with an agreed financial programme at the highest level. Governments. And if such ideas are needed, they must be done more quickly and they need to be thought of other ways to do so. There is nothing wrong with discussing it, as the discussion has been, setting the basis for such discussions, as is done here on the part of the section, and in full agreement with the work as the highest level. A minister has started with groups of work to recommend solutions and to discuss the challenges facing everyone in transport. In fact, it's exemplary, I mean, looking to the future and thinking in terms of the present challenges as well as discussing it with the council, through the process. Environmental and transport committees, in relation to the transport programme as it has been done, in order to ensure the establishment of the Council as necessary. It is well built, and on this basis the more part contributes to a change in policy objective for a five - year transport program, making it clear that a new financing process will continue to be accomplished. This will be done by a special bill that will appear before the council and, of course, must submit to the laws we have set for government policy and planning. A respectable president. Each of us agrees on the importance of speed-up projects to improve driving safety. And here we need to assess the benefits for car owners or road users beyond the expenses they require, assess the costs accordingly to the individual and to society. I rejoice at the emphasis made by the greater part and must express myself as a Southwestern senator that it is urgent to try out on every route and with all means to complete earlier with the Elphani's final legion, the leg between the Stepway and the Breinholt Way, which has been repeatedly delayed, and must be completed sooner than in the original program. The design and design are completed, as mentioned in a committee list, and there are mainly safety reasons there and increasing traffic that weigh heavily. There is a delay in response due to medical transport, and fireman's demand is inadequate, and there is an urgent improvement to be made and with all available measures to speed up. In Kópavogi, the east of the country is rapidly built, and the community has done well in the general service that has been carried out. There is now an abundance of flourishing areas and a blending of jobs in the lakelands. Traffic through the waterfront today is cracked, and we feel it well in times of stress - many of which are busy, over 12,000 cars per day. [[Up front.]] The majority of them focus on promoting public transport by land, air, and sea throughout the country, covering the situation and developing later years, and testifying even. to work in 2018 at the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs to shape the overall policy of public transportation. I'm celebrating the work as the highest. A minister has established a city line as part of a public transportation. There is an important step in the organization of transportation within the capital area, a system reported from another traffic. It is important to import it, create a future structure and a declaration and consult the rural areas in the capital area and the State in order to improve options, reduce predictable traffic expansion and the environmental impact. There's a good report behind these traffic plans. If nothing has to be done, things will get worse. I also welcome the work as the highest. A minister has arranged for a group of personnel to operate on air transport. Hv. paritaprevir That work has been covered by Njáll Friðbertsson, who studied the flight program in his earlier speech and, in particular, the domestic flight as a practical option for the inhabitants of the country. The inquisitive route was mentioned, but to her we have spoken and hoped that it will become a reality, as foretold. But it's moving fast. Actually, I didn't mean to talk for so long, a respectable president, but it's a big deal and a lot to talk about. I want to be at the end of this article to point to the obvious subject behind this important subject and plan: In all coverage and work, we have a problem. The Environment and Transport Committee did a very good job. I thank you for the careful work and the foundation for the discussion we've been through here. I agree with what. My associate, Anna Sævarsdóttir, who's sitting on the bed. Environment and transport committees and have worked hard and hard on this committee's list of aspects. It often speaks of transportation as being about many things and touching our whole community. They are the largest community in the world, health, education, sports, welfare; environment, culture, and are huge, natural, professional. Emphasis on natural and safe transport around the country is the key to using resources around the country, promoting a wide range of employment, and thus building under the well - being and standard of living that we have blessed with a relatively rapid improvement. In spite of everything, at least in international comparison, I'm talking about standard of living. Then we must have been able to do some good about transportation, but we want to do better. We have extra stress to deal with. To cope with climate change, we have made international commitments. All this matters. A respectable president. It is important that we accept this transport program as proposed and then accept the discussion of change of budget and future changes that will take into account these factors and the urgency of projects. Let us continue this discussion and try to make the most of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u94	A respectable president. I felt that it was necessary to seize the chairman of a legal committee just to talk about certain matters relating to public financial laws that relate to the transport program. Although the transport program is fully financed, it has also been shown not to be, end up going through roadtoll, etc. to improve the amount of money needed to reevaluate the transport plan. First thing. A senator mentioned a law on public finance, and I thought about what a financial body has said in her opinion about financial and financial policies, which is called cost-and-suspecting. There is now the cost-and-improvement analysis of these projects none, but we have received the indicators or the amount of benefits that would be derived from the projects that would be carried out in the capital area, which were about to go on in this way: the cost of accidents and the like, the transport site, is about 50 billion per year. The cost is reported to be as much as 50 percent, 25 billion there. It's in a social context, i.e. The entire national product. The government may take 40% of it, so there should be about 10 billion of them, as well as a difference of budgets for the projects, in health care and social security, and in other activities. That's 10 billion. Suppose there were only 5 billion, to plan carefully. Based on a group's report on transport, it paid off to finance all of this and to make more money each year. [[The president calls.]] Why, then, do we need additional dues? Has the cost-benefit analysis not shown us that the advantage of going into it is far greater for the whole community than we can get from paying our dues? [[The president calls.]] It's not enough for us to get the money we're paying extra for it, it's a double.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u95	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir To answer, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. I see what you're doing. A senator is leaving when discussing social benefits. But I didn't quite grasp the example as he set it, I will admit it. However, I would like to say that it is important that we make peace with one of these ideas - because we want to speed things up and increase security, which is socially improved to form an example. A senator went over - that they are in harmony with official financial code. You're right about what you're doing. Senator. Therefore, the move must be in harmony with this, and it has not yet been seen. We haven't seen the ultimate extraction yet. It's an idea level. We are, in fact, just accepting the arrangement of transportation, as it was suggested. That is why I said that she was a full - grown man and in harmony with what was suggested. Granted, there are ideas and reasons to meet the demands that security has to be carried out sooner than on the Smokejanes Way, on the Western and vascular roads, and on the Kjalarnes Way and the South, on the blood vessels around the capital area. I didn't get to answer the exact figures in the illustration. A senator suggested, which is exactly the sort of analysis that we need an accurate example of when we see the details and announce the bill to the top. Secretary of transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u96	A respectable president. We have seen an analysis that dealt with some 90 billion projects in the capital area, which included the waterway. It expected about that time. 5 billion a year on expenses. This is less 1/3, or 60 billion, so we have 46.5 billion a year to finance these projects compared to 20 years of payments. The social cost is 50 billion. The reduction in incidence of accidents is to halve the cost of 25 billion, which is improved by going to work. Careful estimates are 40%, and then we're up to 10 billion, with a careful estimate of 5 billion, which is then the direct profit of the State by going into the process. It is the same number as it takes to collect charges. You wonder why it is not simply looked into the profit that makes it happen, and it was used to pay for it, in effect, at a much shorter time because it is carefully planned. A treatment strategy as it now looks, not with the forward transport reforms that everyone agrees on, as shown by the reduction in the share, is so that all projects are left behind which are security due to important or traffic-weight conditions. It's not really a tick in any of the boxes that should be checked, not even when it comes to based reasons, because of some problems associated with it. They are not included in a transport program. You've heard during the discussion that they're very late in the program because they're a taxpayer. They are left behind simply because they can be exacted. [[The president calls.]] We leave the project in a transport program, charge expenses for it, and thus finance them. [[The president calls.]] And it's all in the southwest corner. This is what the current transport plan looks like, if I'm to be as honest as I can be. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u97	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir To answer, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. Sometimes it is that you need to hear things twice and three times and sometimes more. I agree with what. Senator on the benefit analysis, it's important. Like what? A senator provides an example of the social benefits that result from the project and cannot be disputed. On the other hand, when I face the thought of going to a specific currency, I am more concerned about a term as good as good. A senator has used many times, and I like it, which is an inner debt. If you look at interesting figures in government accounts where we're starting to access the road system, and we're starving in the past decade and the increases ahead of us, I'm concerned that if we don't think about it in any other solution, that deposit in the outside will continue to be maintained. In reality, this is a far worse example than the fine example of profit, which is certainly true, because only the reported 800 billion road systems of 2017 are 9.4 billion. We can see that we put some 3 well for a long time, but it's every year 7. If we take ten years, it's more or less the number we owe, which has been estimated to be about 70 billion if I give a report, for example. The union of the industry. If we continue in that course, we will face serious issues. That's why I think we have to think about it in solutions. I think we're looking at the full - time transport plan and accepting it, and we're open to further study these ideas.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u98	V.E.G. President. The transport program discussed here may be in some strange place, if you can put it that way. In the meantime, a minister offers a plan that has made quite significant changes, to the extent that the year has not been taken deeper. Of course, the minister of pity, the document he presented, was in line with what had been established in the government financial program, namely. It was a rather low chapter that involved transportation. It is therefore heartwarming to see that the committee has taken over the program and that I want to thank the members of the committee and, of course, the committee's special chairman for taking the matter, changing, and offering suggestions that are very helpful. What is also pleasant is that there seems to be a monotonous spirit among members of Congress on the need for large expansion, especially in the maintenance of the transport system. I think we're gonna have to celebrate this singleness. This too has been introduced, and someone says that transportation is not always the most interesting. That is understandable in many respects, but when we become involved in not being on our own or being stuck somewhere in traffic or missing a flight, our tone changes slightly. Is that not similar in the capital area when we are trapped in a traffic jam? All of us are thinking about the same thing, trying to get our way. I think most people would agree that we somehow have to speed up transport, but it seems natural to who seems to be in setting priorities, making plans, or offering suggestions on how to finance these projects. We know that as soon as we manage to speed up projects, improve traffic, improve transport systems on cars, or anything like that, we are reducing the number of accidents. - I got it. Councilmen to turn their phones off here in the hall. I think that most people can agree on what is stated on page 20. 2 in the leading section, and in reality there is quoted and subject to its policy of transport, by President's permission, to facilitate, safe, economic, and environmental sustainability, and aims clear on positive development, to transport. That's very good. I think everyone can agree that it's wise to work on this. In view of the greater part of the committee, visitors have stressed the need to put forth effort to improve transport and speed of implementation where possible. It also shows that the need for investment is a total of 3,300 to 4,400 billion. It involves a number of things, a growing number of tourists, a change in habitat patterns, and more. In a hurry to take action, everyone benefits. It improves safety and thus reduces the health costs. Shorting travel time is important for all of us, and it is important that we all have to spend less time in a car or some other vehicle that we can use with our families or at work or in other ways. It is only natural for public transportation to be discussed, and they are very important and important to develop and make them so that they are real options, which is essential that people are ready to rest their private car. However, the data discussed by the Committee, which appears in the panorama of the greater part and, indeed, in part, in a report on the construction of transportation in the capital area to 2033, published in November 2000, we see that it is not possible to change people's travel habits, i.e. that they use public transportation more, cycle, or walk will increase car traffic by 40% to 2033. Changing travel habits, i.e. To get people to use public transportation, cycle, or walk, we are still talking about a 24% increase. As soon as we talk about it and stress that we need to improve our public transportation and make sure that they become a real option, we cannot overlook the fact that we have to pay the car's route at the same time. This is followed by the suggestions presented here. Naturally, a little discussion is about how to do this. In view of the greater part, implementation is suggested by the way of user fees. We can have all kinds of names or names on these charges and what they are, user fees, charges, hastes, or anything like that. At any rate, it is suggested that there be a mixed way, charging for use, using sales for some property into it, and in some way we can calculate profits - perhaps profits are not the right word, but if we can save in another place, e.g. in the health system or similar places. I believe, however, that it is a dream to think that if we can save 30 to40 billion in our health and transportation system, they just leave the health system and any other means. As we have been here for a while, we know that the health system is not shrinking, it will grow and grow, unfortunately, really. As a result, I think that another is just a dream. Naturally, these ideas have come as a surprise to many, but it is very important to bear in mind that the Central Party's position, as clearly stated in the commission, has been promoted to a great deal by the Chairman of the Committee and to us, is that if we are to go this way, paying special fees, other taxes that are put on the vehicle and its use must be reduced. There is no extra curses to be added. In effect, this is a prerequisite for taking such a course as an alternative form of action. I'm going to be able to quote those words, even though it's not a direct quote, which a nice mayor of Hafnarfjörður dropped on radio show I think the local government would rather be in favor of reimbursement if the money went into the road system. If money had to do these things in their rural communities or to shorten their travel time and improve security as needed, they would not resist the withdrawal of expenses. But we in the media say, " All good things, let's take a close look, and it'll be done in the near future. ' We will discuss how this payment can be implemented so that it will not just be at the expense we are paying today. Of course, today the payment on cars does not come into the road system. There's a lot of money out there. Therefore, we need to find a balance that can be viewed as normal and fair. On the other hand, if the conclusion arises that we can do some sort of reconstituted way, that is very positive, i.e. that the government will always supervise these projects, if I have correctly understood all of this, keep them through the road or any company, whatever it is done. As a result, we can take some sort of reconstituted route and rush out of our urgent necessary tasks, such as on the Rhine Way, which is a major clot in circulation when we drive through the city and on the Southnes, so that we do not speak all the way to Cheflavík, for all 2.5 million passengers, or those who arrive in the country by flight. I'll keep these numbers in line if I'm confused. Well, that's happened now. It is very important that this improvement should be done in a very rapid manner. I actually spent about 40 minutes away from Valla County a few months ago, into the Gangsidetown, 40 minutes more and less, just as the road had nothing to do with it. There is also the need to mention that the waterway is really important. Not being specifically addressed in this transport program or in the opinion of the greater part is in line with the fact that the organizational issues regarding it are indistinguishable, as indicated in the committee's opinion. They need to be won first, and then, of course, a new agreement with the city authorities and rural areas in the capital area, which actually gave up this contract against a 10-year contract that they would have a tremendously improved transport, against some injection into public transportation. At one time, the man here criticized the agreement, thought it was wrong. I still think it's wrong, but I think it's important that the waterway be realized. It is not acceptable to have the traffic as they are today, all that heavy traffic through the city, and Mosfellsville, and up to Kjalarnes. And speaking of Kjalarnes and the Westland Road, we can also speed them up if we go this way. I'm also going to let me mention that it has been a big interest in the Gardens to get a certain part of the road through that deck and I think there's something that needs serious discussion. A respectable president. I'm glad we have a specific solution. There are many things that need to be discussed further. The flight must be reviewed, e.g., but I'm glad that there's a focus on the Reykjavík airport and a reminder of the airport situation. Its importance is undisputed. Similarly, the spare airports need special attention. But we'll discuss this later, in due course, how the deposit will be implemented. I reiterate what the Central Party has said that this cannot be a direct addition to other spells.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u99	A respectable president. I'd like to start by looking over a little bit. In 1907, Hannes Hafstein recommended two prime posts in this hall, one of the bill for road law, the first ones placed in this hall by the half of the Icelanders, and not the Dana king, and the budget for the 1908◯1909. According to a story, Hannes'first act in a minister's chair included roads, and it also says his story that of 2.7 million. K. Government expenditures over the course of the two years, 1908 and 191909, have almost half, i.e. 1.2 million. D.K., travel route. You see, it was very important in those years, as it is today, to link the whole country with safe transportation. Iceland can't be Iceland unless it's made up by roads, phones and anything so we can connect with each other. This is how transportation has shaped society, and they also react to the development of society. I think there's a time when we need to wonder if the procedure we're using for transport is not calling for an update to deal with the 21st century. We have some changes in transport practices. This tool has developed, but I think that we will soon have to go further so that our transport system will serve not only the aim of ensuring easy and safe transport but also the primary objective of ensuring earth and land life to the future. Transport and climate are tied to unbroken bonds, and ambitious climate goals are low if they are not seen in a transport program. There have been reports of how thin Iceland is. You're right, but Iceland is such a fun variety that it's also densely populated. The fact is, we are one of the most densely populated countries in the world, considering the part of the nation living in the capital area and the urban areas around here. Within an hour of traffic from the International Assembly Hall, some 70% of the population lives and the capital's labor attendance reaches south by sea to the city of Rhines, east to Selephos, and west of the citynes. We've got access right over there. Getting a proper grip on transportation in the small areas of the southwest corner can result in tremendous success in the fight against the climate. Because Iceland is both densely populated and densely populated, we need to ask ourselves, " Do I have the same objective of transportation in both situations? ' Gestures, economics, safe and environmental sustainable transport are the aims of a transport strategy, but are transport really easy for the urban population in Reykjavík? For example, is it the interests of rural society that most often focus on safe transportation and safe traffic around the city country? How do they fuck with the highway policy? We can look just west into town, on the Ring Road, where there was a recent accident, where the speed is probably just too high for the situation. Gesture transport in the West Side of Reykjavík has begun to have a negative impact on safety. In the years to come, we may need to start thinking about the need for a different approach to a greater degree. The schedule we are discussing here today will immediately be able to initiate a number of important projects, transport reforms that are called for, and there is no shortage, as many have noted in this room. The cumulative need for development and maintenance in the country is huge, but we are at the same time in a very unusual situation because a new plan has already been announced right on autumn days. This year's about clear, but that's as far as we can tell. There are some important issues in this program that are only beyond the one - year horizon, and hopefully we will be able to make peace in the autumn. I would like to mention especially three of them. First, a clear text of the building of a city line that is ambitious and important for the future was reached, almost one of the largest transport projects for several decades. However, a large proportion of the environment and transport committees were not able to meet the challenge of completing negotiations with rural areas, so the funding of the city line remains. I encourage the minister who accepts the assignment to propose the next proposal for the Council in the fall to settle down with the rural areas and finish the case by the fall, so we do not return to the year with a semi-completed transport line. Then I'd like to mention bicycle rides. It is the time to indicate that in a transport program, there is a special chapter on cycle riding as a means of transportation, something we must rejoice about, and that high amounts are suggested in the construction of footways in the capital area, about 1.5 billion in 2020,2023. However, I pause at the presentation of a larger section of the Committee that this budget will reduce over the second two periods of the 15-year transport programme, perhaps especially because we need to look a little more than just to the capital area when it comes to this structure. Here's why. paritaprevir In K. Gylfadóttir company, on a narrow highway in the southeast corner, which was a very safe matter. I think we should just set the goal of closing the ring so that we can cycle around the country in a secure cycle. We should make it our goal to bind cycle paths to every major urban core of the country and to see what regional cores call for building a special cycle in their rural boundaries. You can do better here. Then I'd like to mention public transportation outside the capital area. The city line is what may be the most important thing in that area, but it must come together with ambitious funding to bind national, regional, and the whole country with public transportation that works. Here's why. paritaprevir Our son, Trausti Friðbertsson, is about how long it would take to take a bus from Reykjavík to Akureyri. In fact, he overgested the period of about 45 minutes, but it takes 6.5 hours on the Bus plan to leave Mjód and up to Hofi - and that costs 10,000 bucks. One way or the other. When you compare it with a five - hour drive, and the cost of gasoline is worth a quarter of a dollar. This is not a system that draws people between Akureyri and Reykjavík. Here's a big campaign, and it also takes a huge effort to unite the area around Reykjavík, as mentioned earlier, to the city of Rhines, Cityness, and Selephos. The march between Reykjavík and this core may be one or two hours apart and too expensive to use it as a basic method when it arrives at Reykjavík to attend work or to study, as many people do, is something very important. This is likely a huge but something that we need to consider with an open mind the next time a transport plan comes for the Senate's payment. Then I'd like to mention two points in the motion of more part of the environment and transport committee that I'd rather put on question signs. First of all, there's aerospace subsidies within the country. I think we need to take a closer look. This is a suggestion made with a good mind, a big, important suggestion to settle the national situation and allow people to attend services in the capital area, wherever they live in the country. But that's 800 million. K. proposals for subsidies on airplane expenses that I can't see were estimated from climate issues except by old numbers and some sludge. It's not a good foundation to build a system like this, and because it's one of the unfinished suggestions in the plan, I suggest at the highest level. Minister that before the fall, he reviews this mail and examines different scenarios. In fact, I discussed this aspect with the first issue. The general plan because, despite the statement in the Government Convention that all major plans would be determined by their influence on climate issues, it seems that a transport program, though the biggest government plan, has not been implemented. It needs to be done before the fall. There is no doubt about that. Then I'd like to mention a point that many have entered in their last days, the perks. Like flying subsidies, it seems to me that this is an incomplete suggestion and can hardly be nailed down to this point. This is an enormous change that is certainly intended to cope with the accumulated needs and pressures of transportation, but I worry that a minister will receive blurred guidance from the council on how to develop this proposal. I don't see if this is related to transport energy exchange, as is sometimes said in the opinion of the greater part, or simply a quick implementation. There are two very different goals. A hurry to take a price on a certain route not only raises questions about the facilities and cover - up taxation, as some have mentioned, but also moves you to ask yourself about the position of a transport program as a controller. If specific projects are made quickly, have we stopped ordering projects according to the needs, security, efficiency, and payment of transport and starting to arrange for the payment of road users in that area? I'm sorry, but I can't make it. On the other hand, I can better understand the ideas of future payoffs when energy exchange is advanced because it's just our official policy here that works here to eliminate gas and diesel cars within a few years. Then there will be little to squeeze out of fossil fuel charge, but while electrical vehicles are 2,700 on the streets of the country, just about 1% of the fleet of cars, I find this untimely anxiety. The rate of the future also needs to be based on the right basic princes. Because, for a long time, I'm worried about it, if we put up at this point, some speed - management system, that, on that basis, will be based on a future fee that must serve the goal of drawing e.g. drive to achieve success. There is no such idea of a speed system when people speak for big users. Rather, we should point out that large users, and especially those on heavy cars, pay considerably more. I assume that's the future fee. A future taxpayer, a green transport currency, is about payment to match the pollution resulting from its use. At the same time, I wondered if by the end of the year, time would simply set in motion an idea of future payment when energy changes have begun. It's okay, there's no rush. We easily have two, three years to shape it in conversation with everyone involved, perhaps the especially rural areas around Reykjavík, who view these ideas about the added taxation of their citizens and who are not happy at all. Mr. President. I see my time is running out, but I may mention one of my favorites just at the end of the city, Reykjavík. In the opinion of the committee, Mr. President, I find it quite successful to speak as if the council could arrest the airport in Watermur for another 15-520 years. I'll have, for example. it was not noticed that this was discussed with the city of Reykjavík. Such a change will only be made in a conversation between the city and the state, and I'm concerned that the ideas that appear in the majority opinion will be that the airport will be well maintained and that it will build up and play its part will cause it to become too much structure on the field to delay its departure. [[The president calls.]] It's a fact, Mr. President, that this court is on its way out. It is a fact that matters, not only to ensure easy and safe transportation within the capital area, but also to ensure victory in the fight against the climate and to open up all this construction ground to solve the problem of housing. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u100	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u101	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for a fine speech, extensive. He reached up to a number of key points discussed in the past two days. I did not agree to speak here just at the end because we seem to have a common interests in excess of many others - the city's airport and its future. Hv. A senator speaks of the place in the heart of the city to the various matters that are discussed in addition to transportation, i.e. Tourism, housing, climate. Since we're here talking about a road program, I'd like to get a hearing on how this could play together. Like what? A senator I used to wonder how we could be discussing transportation to 15 years of age, including public transportation in Reykjavík, even though they did not have much room in the ratings or in the program, and they could drive passengers into Reykjavík, and so on. For example, I can read it out of a word. A senator, but what means would have been there to address this approach in this extensive transport programme, whether it would have been more appropriate to withdraw it into the situation, etc. Or what sees why. A senator? I'm also going to let me ask you what. The senator's left green, if he knows what this is, and I'll name it, for example. Implementation of national and international flights in Whalesun.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u102	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the questions. I don't know exactly how it would have been best to get close to this, but I think I could have talked to the city of Reykjavík about how things are going there, because it's a good way to get into the airport in the majority of Reykjavík's covenants. It says that the management security of the airport will be guaranteed, which rhymes a little with what remains in the opinion of more part of the environment and transport committee. But it adds: While preparing a new airport in the vicinity of the city. They could have taken the position on that job and put it on the committee's opinion. That work, the preparation, is important, as the senator mentioned, so that we can continue, so that we can take decisive action. With all the time frames, we would likely have to do this during the first or second periods of this transport program, work progressively to find a new airport area, or find a conclusion on which flight will take place if it leaves the Habitat. Hv. A senator asked if I knew what else was going on in the Board of Staff on these matters, but I have to admit that I haven't asked about it, I don't know. I hope there's someone there, because it's a huge interest, and it's about, as the senator mentioned, so many things.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u103	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Clearly, we share in the vision that it is not separated, i.e. to complete this case with the future location of the airport and solve the number of solutions that governments will face in the coming years and decades. It is all right to reflect on the extent to which a good religion was made, regardless of how they viewed the location of the airport in the heart of Reykjavík. There they shared a vision that the international flight would have to be guaranteed, a connection to Reykjavík, for many reasons. But I ask if he would be there until peace could have made things worse and made people sit down and say, "We can't find out the peace '; the airport is just here. I give examples of panic and inexhaustration as the eternal issue of location in a new domestic hospital. I'd like to think about something else, and it has something to do with this: we can't talk about transport without discussing climate and environment. It's the same thing. Absolutely. We're not going to do anything that's good and that's bad. It's just that way. And because of what? A senator himself is a member of a class who has taken a great deal of action on these matters and is directing the government, with an ambitious climate plan, I ask: Is it possible for a city with an airport that has become a center with no ambitions in climate matters? Is this not what people pause to say: Maybe we should consider this also? It's not quite going to work out. Is this not discussed in that context?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-02-06-63.u104	A respectable president. I appreciate the questions. Yes, this is a good consideration of the year when the airport will end in that it will never leave. This case has been on hold for far too long. I think we need to push that by the fall, we'll be making the suggestion as the highest level. The secretary of transportation comes up with some idea, some proposal to proceed. We do not need to have a final result in the fall, but at least we need the common vision that we are going to reach that conclusion. Interacting with the objectives of the entire transport system in the climate and its entire design - an airport, a public transportation between parts of the country, or whatever it is now - is of enormous importance. Therefore, it was so boring that the original proposal of a minister should not have been evaluated for the impact on climate events because it is the basis for the evaluation that we can tell how subsidies in public transport between parts of the country have been affected, how subsidies in air transport have affected the development of a better road, possibly leading to higher speed. We need all of this in front of us so that these basic programs can talk together.
