ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u1	Borist has a letter from the 7th. We're out of Suðvest. "The Þorgerður of K.. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, that she'll be absent at the next official level. So today, on Monday, March 18, at the General Assembly, she is serving as a deputy of the 1st Preservation List, Sigrider María Egilsdóttir. She has previously taken her place at the General Assembly, and she is invited to serve again. Borist has a letter from the fourth. That's the north side. "Þórunn's Egilsdóttir, " says Eglís, "that she cannot attend church meetings in the near future because of her illness. So today, on Monday, March 18, the General Assembly takes up residence as a deputy of her 1st, in the district advance list, Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson. He has previously taken his place at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u2	Borist has written a letter from Þórunn Egilsdóttir, the 4th. That's the north side. "Where it resigns as the fourth vice president of the Generals. The election of the new vice president will be scheduled for the next meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u3	Borist has received a letter from a health minister and secretary of transportation and rural management to provide written answers to the requested application. 955, about sterilisation and pregnancy break, from Ævarsdóttir Sunna, and on the inquiries of the icicle. 950 on administrative and land registration, from Anna Sævarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u4	A meeting is being arranged for the discussion and is expected to last for two hours. At the beginning of the discussion, a minister will have 18 minutes, and he will be entitled to respond to an evacuation when speaking to a prime minister. Otherwise, answers will not be permitted. At the end of the discussion, the prime minister has three minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u5	Mr. President. In the beginning of my case, I want to acknowledge that the request of the Council's President, on March 14, made the changes in the state council of former U.S.A. Minister of Justice, Sigríður Á. Andersen, prayed for release, and at the Ministry of Justice, he went to the highest court. Present justice minister and traveling, industrial, and innovation minister, Þórdís Kolbrún Reykfjörð Gylfadóttir. Mr. President. I present a report of the situation following the Court of Justice. We may take this judgment seriously. As we sit at the General Assembly, we are faced with how we can deal with him so that we are concerned, that we allow ourselves to be allowed in this discussion to tear apart the sides of this matter and present our views with the common goal of destroying uncertainty and finding a successful solution, not just for the justice system in this country, but for the common people in this country. No matter where we stand, this is our shared assignment. Judgment is reality. On the other hand, we have an opportunity to demonstrate what is in us how we deal with this judgment. So, in the beginning of my speech, I would like to say that we, the Minister of Justice, who will both speak in this discussion, would consider a meeting with the heads of the council to allow us to take a closer look at the issues and options we have. I think that's what we're talking about. All members of the Parliament must agree on this when we take the different viewpoints presented by professionals in both the conduct and the following of this court, that the subject is not quite simple. As noted, on March 12, the Court of Human Rights was decreed, and the State's attorney had prepared the defense with zeal. In connection with his work in writing his work for the Icelandic State, experts, both local and foreign, were obtained opinions. was consulted by Thomas Horn at the NTSB Schjødt, Oslo, who read aloud about the work of the Icelandic state and gave tips and comments. Then David, the former judge of the European Court of Human Rights, was consulted by Þór, the Davíð of Björgvinsson. He was meeting, including. with me as he reviewed matters with regard to the case as well as to a state lawyer, but Davíð Þór also provided further counseling and assistance with the writing of the book of the Icelandic State. The matter was reviewed and discussed the possible results and possible consequences at this stage, but in addition to the above, the ocean Hafsteinn Dan Kristjánsson, adopted at the University of Iceland and a doctorate at Oxford University, gave counsel to the Ministry of Justice, including the U.S.A. about the transcript of an opinion. A memo from the state attorney's office on the possible consequences of the Court of Human Rights was requested before the decision was issued with a request for information and the possible results and possible response to them, with all the views and ways that are now being torn apart in the discussion. I have felt that it was important from the beginning to look for opinions from as many people as possible and from those who work in different areas of society. That's why I would like to reiterate what I said at the outset that it's very important that we work to solve this case so that the Senate, the Government, the courts, and most certainly those involved, i.e. The public in this country will be content with the way we respond to our judgment and will trust in the means to which it will be decided. The judgment standard is not simple. Our goal is to obtain such a clear solution as possible. Although I report this report on the request of the governor's office, it is the Ministry of Justice that handles the administrative case and a state attorney is responsible for Iceland's lawsuit with the European Court of Human Rights. So I would like to say this in the beginning that I have had good cooperation with both the former and present Minister of Justice and the office of a state attorney. The question has been asked which experts have been involved in this case following the execution of judgment. To answer, a group of experts has found that my wish has been met, along with representatives of the state attorney and Justice Department. That group is likely to meet again this week, with the Berglind Svavarsdóttir, president of the National Legal Society of Iceland, Jóhannes Karl Sveinsson, the highest court of law, the high Hjördís's Hákonardóttir, former Supreme Court Court judge, Ragnhildur Helgadóttir, professor of the School of Justices of HR, and Björg Thorarensen, professor of the HI Law School. Let's just try the court. His conclusion is that by order of a certain judge of the land's rights, a person's right was broken so as to be released from a court of law against him, as 1 mgr. Section 6. The European Convention of Human Rights. It is obvious, then, that the same view applies to three other judges. I'll take a little closer to that question from now on. This conclusion is in opposition to the court of the Supreme Court, which had previously ruled that the judgment was rightly appointed. In the judgment of the Court of Human Rights, there is no detailed discussion of the consequences of this conclusion. The direct obligation of the State is to pay the sufficiency of the lawsuit, but no compensation was deemed. Regarding other matters, the Court says that it is under that state's choice to monitor the Ministry Committee, the general and incident measures to be taken in the legal system to stop a violation established by the Court, and to eliminate the consequences as possible, in paragraph 131. Many have found this to be complicated in their discussion. The Icelandic government body follows the so - called ditheistic theory. As a result, national rights are not part of the Icelandic national rights until they have been adopted in a way recommended by the Icelandic government. It has been thought, however, that the regulations of the land should be explained according to national commitments. The European Convention of Human Rights was granted legal value in Iceland by law No. 62/1994, and review of the 1995 Convention on Human Rights To ensure that the provision of the Constitution met the minimum protection of the European Convention on Human Rights. This was made clear in the discussion of the changes in the government order that would then take place. paritaprevir Geir H. Haarde had history for it. As a result of the same lack of direct legal action in Iceland by the European Court of Human Rights, if the Court's findings are not followed and the necessary improvements are generally the consequences of the state's breaking of the contract. Strictly speaking, the judgment does not call for action until it is established whether it will be final, i.e. whether or not the case will come to the upper court's attention. Yet, it is obvious that right away certain precautions and effective measures are needed, and there is no doubt that the judgment is to be taken seriously, referring to all three branches of the Kingdom government. If we look at the article that we sit in this hall belong to, it is the former highest. The minister of justice accepted political responsibility for this matter when she withdrew from office last week. It cannot be denied, and she did. Then come what is under the courts and the state of the land. The Court itself has interpreted the judgment as not applicable to all 15 judges but only to the four others who were not among the top of the judicial committee, the judicial committee. The Supreme Court concluded from May 24 last year that the Council had signed a vote for each judge, but it believed that this minority had not been such that he had a talent. The Court of Human Rights, in his own judgment, says that the Supreme Court did not carefully investigate this point, but it says that when it comes to taking up a legal arrangement on the part of the former Minister of Justice - which was pointed out in fact right away during Generalism, e.g. of the ones who stand here - and the case of the Allellis, i.e. not to vote for each person but all, and to mention more, is to name what is called, or translated, a severe or gross violation of Article 6. The covenant. However, none of the 11 judges listed by the Committee of Rights, nor does the criminal investigation of the 11 judges in this case seem to be lacking. If the wording of the court appears to be critical of the releases of the Generals, the order of the four judges who were not among the top of the list of the panels would have been influenced primarily by the order of the four judges. Thus, it can be seen that the survival of the Allegris is not a gross offense but a part of a greater cause. According to the National Court, the position of these four judges has to be met primarily. He has now decided that these four judges will not be involved in judicial action, which would be a reasonable precaution in the final outcome of the European Court of Human Rights. This brings to mind what is being done. Whether to request a review of the case will be made by the head of the court. There are three months of cases involved in making such a decision. Of course, a thorough assessment of the interests involved should be made before making the final decision. They need to assess the interests that recommend pressing the matter to an upper department and weighing them against the interests that may be measured by not doing so. It is said to them that such a request would not be agreed with by the Court of Human Rights. Those who feel that it is not right to continue to point the matter out feel that it is possible to concentrate permanently on solving matters rather than waiting for the ultimate conclusion of the matter. There, too, we may be able to determine whether a person agrees with the material outcome of the judgment. What recommends, however, is that this is a significant intervention in the order of the judicial system. The Icelandic legal system has been seriously disturbed and there was no unity within the court. I find it interesting to hear the discussion that the minority opinion of the court is not really important. I find that very interesting. That way, I feel that if we look at the history of the court and the amazing impact of minor opinion on matters, I will not be able to resist. I don't have to mention the minor opinion of Thurgoods Marshallur in the U.S. justice system, but he had a tremendous impact on just his minor opinion. I don't think we can allow ourselves to say that it doesn't have to be taken into consideration. Of course, we need to review both sides of the table and meditate on them. The judgment is unprecedented, and it may have significant significance for other member states of the covenant in terms of the order of the court. Hence, it may be reasonable to refer the case to the top department so that these matters will be clearly resolved. At the top. Minister of Justice has discussed these matters. I don't think it's impossible that we call a foreign specialist to review them with us and to weigh these options with the Icelandic government because in my mind this is primarily about doing what is right for the Icelandic community and the Icelandic legal system, but also about doing what is right in the international context. Of course, we need to weigh the impact of this on the state of the land rights and at the same time ensure the normal environment of the court regardless of the decision. This may be the result of the Generals, let us be aware of this, after an incident by agreeing to an increase in the number of judges to the court. We can assume that this can happen even if it does not exist at the moment. The rights of those who have handled their case in the land's rights should be considered for more than one year of service. It examines whether the standard techniques for appeal or re-insertance are sufficient. As experts have noted, many people are in no way able to see the benefit of repeating, for there is no evidence at this stage that the material results of the Land Court in cases where the four judges mentioned have been kept in the court. However, there must be a distinction between a number of criminal recurrences that recommend immediate reimbursement of the criminal system and prior duty if it is permitted to do so, but a decision to make a decision on private reimbursement is to be taken. Then it should be emphasized that at some point, the Supreme Court may need to decide whether the measures in the national rights already taken are considered satisfactory. Mr. President. It's only natural that the sentence caused a great deal of rot in this country. It involves various fundamentals of the government, government, and politicians, which have been a political issue in this country, i.e. The orders of the judge. We should use the judgment to learn long - term lessons from it. We have called our most skilled counselors to counsel, as was the case in the leading of the judgment, as I said at the outset, that there are quite a number of conflicting views on how far - reaching conclusions should be drawn from judgment. Therefore, I reiterate that we at the National Assembly of Iceland, let us not make matters worse with unconcerned measures in these delicate categories, the national courts that are primarily to serve the public and the general population, and have full confidence in society at any given time, a trust based on the fact that the common people can assume that they will be fully neutrally treated at all three levels of judgment. It is up to us to determine how far we need to go in response, depending on the surveillance of the European Council Ministerial Committee, and there is nothing new in this regard that judgment offers an interpretation problem of exactly how much must be done to enforce it. The case is likely to also be relevant to other European Parliament members. In many parts of the continent, the intervention of the European Commission in judicial matters has been criticized. Of course, we do not want to be counted among the nations, where pot is broken in such materials. In that case, however, the issue may be a far more serious issue. However, it is not merely the judgment itself that draws attention to in many lands. Our response to him will also bring attention. Therefore, it is important that we work professional and professionally out of the position of the Council of Europe's ideals for the protection of human rights and the protection of the state of justice. There we should continue to work to develop and enforce standards of the legal state. So I say we should take the decision seriously, but we also have time to break the judgment's viewpoint. We're supposed to tear down the minor opinion. If we are serious about securing peace about the legal system, we are not meant to allow this discussion to take place. We should not allow this discussion to reveal how we feel about European cooperation or foreign capitalism in general. This has nothing to do with it. This has to do with our being members of the European Court of Human Rights, which has been for decades. Here at the time, exemplary, the decision was made in broad agreement to change the human rights section of the Constitution and to legalize the terms of the covenant. That was in the long run. I think that's what we're talking about. Senators should review it. I think that's a good review, at least. I felt that way when I reviewed a discussion about the political changes then approved. We do know, however, that in the long history of the European Court of Human Rights, a sensitive matter of opinion has indeed been tested. In many cases, it is not easy for a case to get international criticism, so it is able to prevent any kind of human rights that they have value regardless of their borders. But let us allow ourselves as a democracies to tear down these conflicting views in a grammatic way, knowing that we agree that human rights have barrier protection. It's our guide. However, there may be some viewpoints about how this judgment should be interpreted and how to find the best solution to it, allowing us to talk about it. Then we have an extended period of time to arrange for an earlier order of judges in Iceland to be declared above all doubt, to create courts and legal systems as the best cover in time and length. I just remind you of the current revision of the Constitution, which is, of course, the ideal opportunity to strengthen the framework completed by the courts. I think we have a great opportunity to be careful in every step and to be responsible for what lies ahead. I restate on the fact that the presidents are important to have a meeting on this matter so that we can be as fully informed as to what is considered, because there are still many. We will be tested to make such an arrangement that it can result in success for all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u6	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. The prime minister is eager to give her information to the council waiting for, although it is certainly the highest level. Recently, prime minister did not fail to answer the media. I take this sentence very seriously, as was shown in the case of the Supreme Court. Prime Minister, the government did. That is why it was also a pleasure to hear that it was the highest. The minister did not agree with the words of another minister, who went on to speak down the European Court of Human Rights and the results that came from them. This sentence is perfectly clear. The court's messages are very serious to us that we must guarantee independence from the local courts. This is a fundamental course, absolutely fundamental in the legal realm. V.E.G. The prime minister said that we should not take unwise measures, but as the days pass, unsolved cases in the land's rights are often heaped up, and we often talk about very delicate matters - of course, all kinds of subjects, but many of them are very sensitive. So I would like to ask the highest question. Prime Minister: Will the plea of the Court before the weekend be considered, and this morning an unforeseeable result for children and other inhabitants of the country's territory would already be arranged to appoint four more judges to the land's rights?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u7	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. But I'd like to say it, and repeat what I said here, that I don't look at them at the highest. Ministers who have expressed themselves on these matters and have had a view of the scope of this judgment are speaking down the European Court of Human Rights. I think we need to allow ourselves to have a conversation about what values we're offering support, and there's nothing unusual about it. Yesterday, I was told that he was very progressive in the sense that he is unprecedented, he goes a different way than we have ever seen. Then it is important that we give ourselves this opportunity to have that conversation. Do we agree with the reasoning presented, and is this because of the nature of the issue that would be normal for us to move forward to the upper branch of the European Court of Human Rights? I think we should give ourselves some time to talk about it. As to this challenge in the court, I know that it has been presented directly at the highest level. Minister of Justice. The Minister of Justice has that in mind. Since the Court has already responded, these four judges, as mentioned earlier, do not participate in judicial action, which means that the judgment can work with the 11 remaining judges. I can totally figure out that workload. A senator thus mentioned that I know that this matter is being examined at the highest level. Minister of Justice. This too is undoubtedly shown in her case below.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u8	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister very much for the counterweight. It is true that this judgment, the message from Strassbourg, was unprecedented in that I think it is absolutely unprecedented in history that a whole level of judgment is being so upset as it is taking place here in Iceland, and is in Iceland after the former Justice Minister, who is entirely responsible for it. She won't be taken away. She rebelled against the advice of all the experts involved, opposed the Ministry Department's advice. But this is not without reservation in that the European Court and the EFTA court have previously been telling countries such as Poland and Hungary that the European Commission cannot intervene when it comes to the order of the judiciary, as it happened here. [[The president calls.]] So I think that we all need to get together right now and not focus on minor opinion, as it were, in the words of the highest degree. The prime minister, do not look at anything if, in the first place, and in the beginning, but, rather, do the work now. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We in the United States will certainly not be on our side when it comes to the restoration of the justice system in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u9	The president asks why. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u10	Mr. President. Yeah, minority opinion, and if it were, then it would be. I'm the kind of person who makes it seem that politics will accept it for minor reasons, even though there are only two other views. I think the correct story will show us that it is our duty to look to them too. The result, however, is quite smart. It was in my case. We take it seriously. The solution, however, is what will be sufficient to meet that conclusion. I'm glad to hear it. A senator describes his position. What will it take to eliminate that uncertainty? As I mentioned earlier, I may be in charge of the Generals. Then I think we'll agree on that, me and the other. A senator, for us to be ready to handle such matters with dignity, for it is, of course, our task so that the land's rights can be restored to function.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u11	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for this report. I especially noticed that the prime minister spoke of the need to be careful. The nature of the matter, as it is, of course, very important, because we will send a message to the international community on our response to this sentence, which was especially directed to the General Assembly and how the decision-making campaign was here in the National Court. First and last, these four are naturally spoken of. We're talking about getting experts to tell us how to proceed with an order in the Country Court. Are these 11 judges designated by the Qualified Committee, and the Allied Council voted for this one package, as it was presented in its own time, rejections of all doubt, is there any doubt that it will be valid? Is there any doubt that this will give us a measure of justice, and it will be all right with the judgments to be executed below if such a system is to be arranged? As I see it, the Court of Human Rights leaves no doubt that it was not right here at the High Council. There should have been a vote for each and every one of them. That's why I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Wouldn't it be natural for us to take seriously our initiative and begin to vote according to the rules and laws to which the Council is required, that we bring up each of the judges in the land's rights completely?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u12	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland for the comment and query that is absolutely valid. This is one of the questions we need to answer, of course. In my speech, I considered only that our evaluation, which is not final, is that the primary focus of the judgment on these four is that in the judgment of the Court of Human Rights, there are many reasons. The Supreme Court had earlier learned that the execution of the Generalis to which he made comments would not be so important that it corrupted the order of judgment. But there is no question about it. I must say here and hope that my case has made it clear that there are still a number of topics that we will work to resolve in the next few days and weeks. That's why I think we're supposed to look outside the cliffs as well. But if we look at the words recorded in the judgment, these four will be out of harmony with the judgment. These are the clues of the interpretation of the judgment we support. Like what? A senator, of course, says that the handling of the General Assembly was especially tore up, so I believe it needs further criticism.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u13	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The answer is made by the prime minister. Yes, there is indeed reason for doing so if we are really going to benefit now and can say with a good conscience that we have really done everything in our power to meet the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. This is a huge offense against us, the legislature in the country. That's pretty clear. There is also doubt that the four judges appointed by the then minister of justice must especially be ignored. But once again, to be fairly sure, in order to say that it is above all doubt, a minister doesn't think it's a reason at least to make a special point that each judge in the National Court will be chosen for just anew, in order to ensure national justice? Just over again, as the law and the rules say?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u14	Mr. President. That is so, and the General interpretation was that this payment was completely permissible. It was not discussed in the original judgment of the district court on the first case of this case, followed by a hearing given in the court of the Supreme Court. I think we're just going to find out more about it here at the council. Our finest people in the world have seen this happen, and they don't think it's relevant. I reiterate that this view is not over, and we will have continued discussions about it, including of the Senate and the crime scene of the officers of the clans.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u15	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. The prime minister of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter for reporting the situation. I hear she cares that we find a parapolitan solution to the challenge we face. I certainly declare myself ready, and me and Pirata, to share in this important project with her. However, I would like to give one advance of our support to Pirata's actions in the government, and he is that they must in no way weigh the independence of the European Court of Human Rights and its credibility. I think I know, after sitting with the highest. Minister of the Council of Europe, cares about the court, and is aware of its importance. I noticed that the minister called for a more objective discussion of the judgment and its subject. That's why I want to ask the highest. Ministers whether she has any concern, such as me, of the words and comments given by the former justice minister and current financial minister have dropped on the court. I call attention to the court, not necessarily the judgment. They have even. claimed that the Court was used for political purposes in the National Court case, that it followed trends in Europe rather than a law in its decision, or that the European Court gave its interpretation authority to the court, possibly involving the procedure in the state of Iceland. So I ask the highest. Minister: What is her position on these statements by her colleagues in the government? Will she use it if it looked like this attitude could become the dominant part of Iceland's foreign policy? Does she feel, as I thought, that she indicated an answer to a statement that this would include a critical criticism of the judgment?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u16	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Iceland has probably been a member of the European Court of Human Rights since 1950. I studied it in my talk in the past, including the effect it has had. of national legislation and national constitution. It is appropriate to review that these constitutions went through the General Assembly. I noted that a former senator, Geir H. Haarde, had recommended these changes, and this was under the seat of the Davíð of Oddsson Oddd at that time. So, of course, this covenant has broad support on the political side, and I don't think there's any reason to doubt it. I believe, however, that it is all right to discuss what is presented to be a minority party, not that I have become some special spokesman for their opinion, but that we are important that we take care of it and also appreciate it in all this discussion. It discusses just how far it is appropriate to walk toward the rights of those countries on the part of the European Court of Human Rights. It is the discussion that will be taken into consideration there. I feel nothing wrong about it, and that's what I was saying in my speech, that we'll talk about it. In that sense this judgment is considered to be what was called progressive, or steep, or whatever word we use, because it goes beyond what was previously done to me by those who have come to know. I think it's perfectly normal that we have a conversation about it without it being concerned that we're turning away from our commitments, because that's not what we're doing, if that's what we're doing. A senator is asking for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u17	Mr. President. No, I wasn't asking if we should tell us about the European Convention of Human Rights. It wasn't my question, but I was asking whether a minister could agree with a statement like this, that the court was used for political purposes. V.E.G. A minister points to the minority opinion, as some independents have also been very greedy. It shows that the smaller portion feels that the size of these cases in Iceland has only been too much for it. I think it's a completely different arm than saying that the court has been used for political purposes, that it's following some policies and currents in Europe, some fashion waves, rather than following the established laws, or that the judges include intervention in Iceland's sovereignty. I don't think that's a demeaning criticism. I'm surprised to find out. A minister did not make a clear point with me by speaking of it with no sound support that someone was using the European Court of Human Rights for political purposes in this national court. [[The president calls.]] It is a grammatical criticism of the judgment itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u18	Mr. President. I can put it very clearly, and it was very clear in my speech that I do not view the European Court of Human Rights as being used by other forces for political purposes. Otherwise, I wouldn't have started my speech saying that we needed to take this judgment seriously. If I thought it was a political raw skin game, I wouldn't have started my speech that way. I hope so. The members of Congress are absolutely aware that when I say we take this judgment seriously, it means that we take it seriously. We wouldn't if this were our food.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u19	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The prime minister is eager for the detailed, good, and reassuring review of this great and serious matter. It's not surprising, but I'm glad to know that this conclusion will be taken seriously and stressed. Ministers are required to deal with this case, so it's a good idea. It is evident, as noted in the case, that it is not merely the judgment itself but how we react to it. I must say, and it has been as if it had been established here by other members of the council, that I feel that up to the chilling point in the time we are living now, how quickly those advocates of the government, which at first expressed themselves, began to criticize the Human Rights Court, not necessarily the decision of the Court, but the court as such, that he had no jurisdiction here, and that his conclusions were merely due to yield to our sovereignty. It's a completely insane approach, and it's basically in human terms that people want to be free from the interference of the European Court of Human Rights to restrict the civil rights of people, so I interpret the words in their most profound form, which I actually don't think were the meaning. But these are serious words. I would like to ask the highest part of my first talk. Minister, in view of her earlier words that during the months of the court handling, she had been preparing a memo about possible results, possible consequences, and possible reactions. What did this memo reveal about government reactions? I can't imagine it actually being that on the memo, we go to the Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u20	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for her comments and a question. Of course, the government's modern - day plan is out of the question. As I came to the beginning, though many of the lawyers, there's quite a difference in opinion. It tells us that as we approach the decision of the judgment, we must look forward to a variety of reasons that could be very different. The result could have been many. How conclusive the conclusion could have been, for example. to see if this applies to all the judges or only to the four whom we have only discussed today? How far would it go? How much would the appeal of the Generals be made? Of course, our strategy is primarily about how we address this judgment and what action will be taken. As mentioned in my case, this too is complicated because it affects three branches of the state. This is not only about the execution of the project but also about the courts as a matter of personal worth, as has now been done, as the nature of the case as determined on how to proceed in the case. However, it may also require intervention by the legislature authority regarding specific measures. I had thought that I and the Minister of Justice should meet with the officers in order to consider the technical issues facing us and that we need to resolve in the next days and weeks. Because of what? A senator asks about the different conditions that have been drawn up, and I have said that not all the factors would be put together to interpret it as a gross fraction of 6. G., which came to an end.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u21	President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister is eager to explain and explain. I wondered, " Is this memo something we could have because there are others who are giving the answer? ' With this question in mind, I'm going to declare that the convention party of reverends will, of course, contribute - asked as well as not to be asked - to advance and resolve these matters so that they are needed. I have a question for you right now. V.E.G. A minister spoke earlier that this team of experts had come to resolve matters. I wonder, then, perhaps in the light of what is upstairs, whether there will be a transparency at that job. Is there time or anything you can watch? When it comes, will it surprise you? Can this be achieved so that the council and others in the congregation can effectively coordinate their lines in these matters? I'm not going to minimize the matter by myself, surely not, but it is by that magnitude, it affects the area of human life and society, that it is of enormous importance that responses should be coordinated, that humans do not start off with something unconcerned, and then spend the next few days and weeks taking it back or correcting it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u22	Mr. President. I can easily understand why. A senator and therefore we will request a meeting later this week. It's the highest. Minister of Justice holding the matter in hand. I expect her to go over how she makes the time line grow. There we will be able to take a closer look at the evidence. I'm gonna make the answer enough that we're gonna call a meeting this week, and then we should have a clearer view of the time line. Now, everyone is working as fast and hard as they can, but I want to reiterate that it's very important that we try each step.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u23	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for this passage. V.E.G. The minister urged the Senate to stand together and not go to holes. This is a fatherly and positive encouragement to a serious matter. However, there is concern that there is a clear distinction within the government on the interpretation of the Court of Human Rights in general. It's, for example. not the harmony between what we have heard in the media from the highest level. Secretary of the budget, then the highest. Prime Minister. This is a concern at the same time as the highest. Prime Minister encourages a body of elders to stick together. The sentence is a sentence against the work of the Generals as well as the Commission. I'd like to ask the highest. The prime minister's conclusions are from the criticism presented in the court - and the judgment is clear - in the work of the Generals, which includes votes for all 15 judges, not each.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u24	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I might have called myself motherly rather than fatherly, and I don't know what I mean to put into it by reason of it. Senator. Hv. A senator makes it a matter of the fact that I spoke and called for solidarity but that there is no solidarity in the government. Well, then I'm gonna make you happy. There is a solid agreement within the government that we will respect our commitment to the European Convention of Human Rights. There is also the agreement within the government that it is reasonable for us to discuss the different views that appeared in both the majority of them and the minority and to review all aspects of the matter. In fact, I always hold such discussions, wherever I work. Hv. A senator especially wants to discuss the matter with the council. I reasoned in my initial speech that it is, of course, one of the measures taken by the Court of Human Rights in their decision that the Supreme Court had previously thought would not have the legal value, so it can be reversed. At the same time, the goal of the case is gathered together and that it is one of those who causes the breach to be considered gross. However, it may not be possible to conclude that such an effect would have been the result of the release of Generalis alone. But I'd like to say that I still feel like we're going through that matter. You might say that what is stated in a court order is that the General didn't make the comparison between the four not on the list of the top of the qualifications that had to be done. But this I do not believe, by the words of judgment and by the experts who have reviewed it, that it is the only reason for the decision of the European Court of Human Rights in its own way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u25	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The answer is made by the prime minister. I'd like to continue the entrance of the Generals to the case and the procedure of the Generals. Is there anything in the General procedure, including the agreement between the presidents and the heads of Congress, who need a special opinion? Did you have a mistake in the consultation process for the vote? I'm waiting for the highest. The prime minister is to give a clear explanation in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u26	Mr. President. I expect, of course, that the president of the council and its administration will review what was in direct charge of the decision, which was certainly taken from the opinion of men that it would be a matter of Congress, where it would be reasonable to agree with certain votes. That was the conclusion then. She wasn't in the air. But I view it, in the light of this conclusion, that the Council will review it in its own time. But this conclusion was not taken out of nowhere, just to be said. That was an example of how the Council has handled matters in the past. But I expect the General to review the decision with this view.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u27	President. I'll agree with the highest. Prime Minister that it is important for humans to reason on this judgment from the European Court of Human Rights. It is only natural for humans to consider both the majority and the minorities, especially in the light of the nature of this court and the nature of the court, both in the judgment and in the minority view. If we begin with the decision of the court or the majority opinion, it is said that, apparently, people are influenced by political discussions in Iceland and, as the lesser part points out, have been influenced by the violence, as it is said, in Icelandic politics. As a result, the memory part describes a number of concerns, including worry. that by setting up a warning example and, in fact, opening up what is in the minority view called a pandobox. It is, in fact, not on this political side, but on the fact that the greater part is taking a stand, not because the individual had a reasonable trial, but some other technical issues that took place long before the trial began. And the minority correctly points out that if the European Court is going to change its approach in this way, even those who have been treated fairly can win the sentence to some prior point, opening it up, apparently, almost endless possibility of taking up a case and expecting the European Court to change the decision of the state. So these are fundamental questions, on the one hand, whether the judgment in this case has begun to be different, beginning to define its role, in terms of the interpretation of the law and the scope of what this court would address, and whether it will be influenced by political debate. Both of them are a major concern and give us Icelanders a reason to discuss this matter in this country but also in international cooperation, for that must be ours, like the lesser part, a concern if it is actually the case with this court. Of course, his job is to ensure human rights on the basis of the law. Therefore, it cannot be overlooked that the lesser part is, in view, seeking to secure human rights by referring to the law and by the law, above all, to defend people's rights, not those that seem to be the most suitable or the best for the times. When a person criticizes the memory of the part, it cannot be overlooked that it is viewed by a sincere willingness to defend the basis on which the Court of Human Rights rests and thus the human rights. The work that lies ahead of us in solving these matters in this country should not forget to discuss these matters in international cooperation and perhaps even in the future. especially those countries that are concerned about the development of this court. They must want to gather for him to work in harmony with what was set up when he was formed. So it would be in my opinion that the European Court of Human Rights would pay it if the Icelandic government decided to appeal the case that they must do. I've heard it in counsellors. However, in view of the opinion of the greater part and the lower part at the previous stage, you wonder whether the former Justice Minister has been dismissed, or disbarred from the government, Iceland's position may be weakened in the long term if possible. The reason why I'm wondering is that if you look at a political discussion in Iceland and build some part of your stand on it, it must include an unfortunate message on the part of Iceland, in view of the government's position, that the Minister of Justice has had to replace, resign from the Court of Human Rights, due to the previous decision made by the Court of Human Rights. So, in view of this, there is a bit of concern that the political development and discussion in Iceland are so much referred to as the subsequent evidence that the Ministry of Justice has been expelled from the government or removed on its terms. Nevertheless, I respond to the greatest encouragement. Prime Minister that the Council is reasonable in this matter and reasoning without falling into standard political shootings and opposition. We in the Central Party will contribute to that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u28	Mr. President. I'm celebrating the declaration. Prime Minister that she intends to work this case in cooperation with all categories. The union is ready to arrive at that work, and it will be based on toughness and respect for the European Court of Human Rights. In view of the way this has been conducted in recent days, it is not a matter of political stability that the directors of the administrations have considered themselves to be finished in the country, asking whether the stability is all about the loss of the government for four years or something else and more. Could it be that he also has to deal with greater efficiency and political decision - making and, finally, that the important support of a legal state is solid and well established? In fact, it does not take long to see that there is no political stability here. On the contrary, government is characterized by soon - to - be. Although it was clear that this would have to happen if a workforce was to be agreed, the government reduced over a year. Private diplomas took over a transport minister in a transport program, proclaimed new ideas that they did not themselves understand, and hardly will the government's decrease in donations to the rural community bring about any political stability. Now, however, we are faced with the need to resolve the confusion of a whole court case created by a former justice minister who continued and ignored advice from a number of experts, including the U.S.A. ... tomyself at the Ministry. Moreover, she failed to accept the offer of the government to take more time to back up her case and to do it decently. The government seems to have been completely unprepared for the judgment despite the Supreme Court. One prime minister earlier said that there were some results to be expected. As a result, the situation is now marked by complete uncertainty and even resolution. In this administrative work, it seems that there is no attempt to look beyond the attention of the Minister's nose. In fact, governments now have voices to extend this uncertainty for a year and a half and appeal the judgment to the cross. In fact, it is absolutely uncertain whether she will accept the case. It is true that the United States has never appealed when it has lost judgment in the court of Human Rights. V.E.G. Secretary of finance, as well as former Justice Ministers, have aged uncannyly and dangerously far, I think, to undermine the credibility of the court and even suggest that it is possible to report. Thus, they flirt with the response of countries that have been weakening the legal system through judicial intervention, such as Poland, Turkey, and even Hungary. They have spoken of events in the continent, likely in these states, as being a factor in the contingency of the sentence. It may be. It may well be that the Court of Human Rights has just decided to take the courts seriously and defend the European courts. I think it's necessary, and it's actually a celebration in many parts of Europe. Hopefully, this judgment will now be heard in order for ministers to be tempted to put in courts of interested persons who are not fit from a series of candidates, knowing that it can bring damage to the taxpayers, while the judge is sitting on trial. In recent years, there have been some of these issues that we all know. I do not doubt the rights of those who applied to be appointed to a new land, but it will be interesting to see what the four positions will be as likely to be. We may be able to reach them with some contracts or they'll be on the payroll of a career career, but we may find that the ex - secretary's fuckup is going to cost us quite a little. Likely, the cost will run at hundreds of millions of dollars. While it is expensive to observe independent courts and good courts and judiciary systems, it is worth the entire investment, but it is a treasure that could have been saved and used in better things. Mr. President. The European Court of Human Rights has provided huge legal improvements for the entire continent, including Iceland. The most famous case is Jón the Kristinsson of Christian, whose court case against the Icelandic State led to a finally violation of the prosecution and the court. It took a few years to change our system to meet the conditions set by the court and cost us very much money. But it was a good and urgent investment, and no human today would doubt its rights. This changed the whole legal system and led to the U.S. District Court. The citizens got a better and safer system of justice. We have changed countless things in our lives because of the judgment of this court into cases that we have not even been involved in, and this is likely to be reflected in the laws on criminal treatment and judgment in that area. Mr. President. That's at least It's good to have a new minister who can trace the mess the former Ministers are knitting. I wish her good fortune in that work. I repeat, the Conspiracy will be happy to work on it. However, I would like to remind the Ministers that the courts are independence and one of the three foundations of the government, and therefore they need to listen very seriously to the words of the head of the court, which says too soon to make a decision to go to the authorities and keep everything in doubt. Then I'll advise a minister, like the highest. In fact, the prime minister proclaimed that he would do so, calling out the most skilled legal experts, and heed their advice this time. It is important that we restore this new and important intertrial phase so that there is doubt in the world that the courts in this country are independent and unwilling, and that they enjoy the trust that is an unbreakable part of a democratic legal state. Even if it does, it's too much for you to say. Finally, the prime minister has thrust his fist on the table and moved ahead with the minister's resignation will not be able to criticize her strongly because she had been accepted at the outset that the same minister had put us in this troubled situation again entrusted to the Ministry. Mr. President. Now we have to clean up. We need to be careful. We all need to stick together and make sure that this time there will not be a expedition that will extend and increase the uncertainty of the justice system and undermine it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u29	A respectable president. We are faced with a very serious but important task. In difficult matters, as discussed above, the result is not alone, nor is it to be ignored. When the formation of a new court order was initiated, the objective was clear, to improve the system of justice, to ensure a careful and just trial before courts, and to the court of the highest court, the Supreme Court, to perform its role as an unprecedented court. This included important corrective measures to make possible an intermediate assessment of the oral evidence of an appeal phase when necessary and that careful court treatment could be ensured in cases where specific factors and other factors are tested. The Lawgiver decided that at the first appointment of judges in the new court phase, a minister would be obliged to present his proposals under the Council, which would then approve or reject them. With the arrival of two of the three branches of the government, the order would be based on confidence in the court and on the legal system. The third article of the government, the courts, finally arrives at the order by making legal judgments against it in spite of its problems. It is in my mind that the order of the land's rights was an important way of pleasing the justice of the country. Of course, we do not know that the situation we are in today because of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights is not good either before the court or before the justice system. It calls for a thoughtful attitude, and we will respond to that position firmly. Mr. President. It is very important that in such a careful manner the facts be maintained, but many have been held up in the heat of the game for the past few days. It was immediately revealed in the process that the lawgiver had proposed for the first time at the Court's Court, that the project would not be an easy solution when the Qualition Committee submitted its decision, showing that 15 were most qualified to the 15 places to be appointed, and out of only five women. Whether the result was in accordance with the findings of an appropriate committee or not, a minister had the obligation to submit his or her proposal to the National Court's orders for the first time at the General Assembly. So the minister looked for the general opinion of the jury's list and received a message from the leaders of the classes that the art would not be accepted unchanged. These views were mainly based on the poor share of women on the list of the judicial committee. Then the minister continued his inspection, increased the value of court experience, and proposed to the Council adopted here in this hall. The president of Iceland, who made an investigation of the case beyond the obligation, then confirmed the decision of the Generals by signing an order to the 15 persons approved by the Council. As a result, differences arose that occurred to the courts of the country. The Supreme Court issued a judgment that stated that a minister had not performed his field of research enough before he proposed that the judges' orders for the Council and that the votes for the proposals at the General Assembly were not legal. Six months later, the Supreme Court pronounced judgment that all the judges'orders to the land's rights were legitimate. That judgment was brought to the European Court of Human Rights, which made its judgment last week, which was in opposition to the Supreme Court. This creates the troubled situation we are facing today. In the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, a greater part of the court concluded that a single court order by one judge involved a violation of 1 mg. Section 6. European Convention on Legal Orders The same applies to three other judges in court. So the accuser of the case that had been condemned by a judge in this way would not have received the treatment of the righteous court under the covenant. There, therefore, the outcome of Iceland's Supreme Court and the Human Rights Court conflicts. The judgment of the Court of Human Rights does not have a direct influence. That means they are not binding to Icelandic rights, cr. 2.g. track No. 62/1994, of the European Convention on Human Rights. Thus, the result does not automatically affect the solutions or the position of the court in Iceland. However, Iceland's national commitment means that governments oversee the decision and take action to correct the situation that is supposed to cause the resulting offense. And we will. For details on the need and the need for action, both general and specific procedures. 46th. The same law on the European Convention on Human Rights makes it clear that treaties are sworn to repetitive the Court's final judgment in whatever case they are involved. I consider the most important concerns of the activities of the National Court, of Rearing when it comes to judicial hearings and reviews of the Supreme Court of Human Rights. All these matters of opinion contain various viewpoints. I've already said that I believe that it is normal to request a review of an unprecedented judgment by a minority of the court's department to give a clear view of the subject of the legal order of the court. I hear well the views of the potential negative effects of the period of waiting that is inevitable. In my mind, this is not necessarily a matter of either or, but it requires an assessment of the global interest between the European Commission and the legal system. In the situation that exists, it is important that all of us, as part of the legislature government, try to set up this matter from the tombs of traditional politics and to trust in the support of the Icelandic legal system. As suggested and desired by the order of the land's rights, it is just as important now that we can handle this project together. President. I have spent the last few days meeting with various sources, including representatives of the National Court and the Court of Justice. I have spoken with specialists and have observed discussions in the political arena. Many views are promoted, and many routes have been called, from cold practitioner to Polish, but all seem to agree that the solutions are neither simple nor obvious. I have no doubt, though, that as time passes, we come to a certain understanding and can wisely respond to the situation that exists. Today, therefore, there is not one obvious way we can go, with an obvious vehicle to the obvious destination. Having chosen the route and destination at once would be indiscriminate. What matters most on the road ahead is that we have chosen for guidance. My guide is to arrive at this project in calmness, in agreement, in order to ensure the efficacy of the courts, in confidence in the judicial system, and in the security of justice in the country. A major weight in my decision-making will be ahead of you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u30	A respectable president. National rights were intended to be an enormous penalties for the Icelanders. Ólöf Nordal, former U.S.A. Minister of Justice, had worked on his organization in transverse politics, and it seemed that we were going to prosper at the order of a new court order in Iceland, i.e. until the former Minister of Justice, Sigríður Andersen, chose the matters of judges. The administrative committee and monitoring committee at the end of May 2017 planned that the Committee and the Council be taken care of for a few days. How it would be possible for members of Congress to evaluate the choice and procedure of a minister in this very short period of time is incomprehensible. Except, of course, if you look at all the intentional giants forced through the council with no notice and no time. That methodology is well - known in this house, and it is often used by the government of every time to defuse the control capacity of the government. It was not just a lack of time that interfered with the proper handling of the matter at the council. The minister of that court also chose to keep the council uninformed that all of her principal professionals and officials in the council had strongly discouraged her from taking the course she chose in the order of judges. So the former minister knew exactly what she was doing. She knew just as well as the officials who advised her that it was against her inquisitor's duty to do what she did, but she did. From that day on, the same former minister has invited a council and a nation into an adventurous number of explanations and accusations against most of the rights of the state. The favorite explanation given by the former minister is that it felt that it would be appropriate for a judge's experience to add weight to the assessment of candidates. But it doesn't seem to matter how many times this nonsense has been cleared up with reference to the case, it always hangs back into its defense and independence. It may not be surprising, since similar explanatory explanations have been effective in justifying the political orders of a judge for years, as many examples prove. When Björn Bjarnason took Ólafur Börkur Simondsson's Þorvaldsson, Oddsson Odddsson, before three applicants considered the Supreme Court to be more qualified, an experience in the field of Europe was pulled out of the hat. When the Supreme Court evaluated five applicants more qualified than Jón Steinar Gunnlaugsson, a confidant of Davíð son of Oddsson, to perform the court of the Supreme Court, Geir H. Haarde asked the highest right to change his criteria and to increase the impact of legal experience. When a suitable committee assessed three candidates more qualified for the local Court than the son of the President Davíð Oddsson, then the head of the Independence Party, Agnition of Mathiesen was justified by the permission of the President Þorsteinn, a multi-itemated experience in these areas. None of these cases mentioned a single mention in an advertisement used by the Ministers as a justification to ignore the counseling of the Commission or the Supreme Court. Thus, the same explanation for the changed change in life has been followed each time the Justice Ministers of the Independence Party do not want to appoint a professional but rather a group of predominantly in the judicial office. And she's still living a good life. The preliminary decision on the first order of judges in the land was designed to stem these political paramours from the order of judges. However, former Minister Sigríður Andersen did not give in to this. Rather, he drew out the good old explanation of the need to give some particular experience to add force to the selection without reasonably rationalizing it. At the same time, however, she deliberately missed a few other candidates who had been judged to have more experience in judging than one of the four chosen ministers. It's what went on. The minister got his way and ordered the four of them against the recommendation, against the administrative law and against the principle of not selecting the most qualified candidate in a certain official position. She also seemed to think that she could get away with it, as did her predecessors, that she was political in the office of judges, and that she just keeps saying that the unfair things were often enough until things got slowed down. This time, the European Court of Human Rights has hit the staff of the Independence Party, which has been overdue for far too long. I refuse to allow a vision to be supplied by the independents'explanations or to allow them to run through with misleading, false language without any cause. May it be the least of their backs, their delinquencys of the European Court of Human Rights, and his judgment in the National Court take root in the discussion. Before I hear an injurious objection to independence that they are just asking questions and they just want to discuss the court, I want to say this: The Independence Party is subjugating the credibility of the court, and their language has little or nothing to question the judgment. It can be discussed whether to appeal to the court, although I present a large question mark to its benefits and to the courts as well. What is not to be done is to insist repeatedly that the court was used for political purposes, without having any solid evidence in it. Or speaking of courts in Iceland giving their power to foreign courts. Or to say that the Court is roading to Iceland's sovereignty. There's nothing behind this. I don't think independents know. The European Court of Human Rights, with all its covenants, the European Convention of Human Rights at the top of the category, and all the joint capitalism that ensures that we protect the human rights of all Europe together, is one of the most beautiful creations for mankind. This has been accomplished by the tireless work of all generations throughout the continents for 70 years. And now the Independence Party just wants to ask questions as to whether this is a significant test because the Human Rights Court, which is responsible for protecting human rights in all of Europe, came to a conclusion that Sigrides Á. Andersen does not appreciate. Mr. President. It has certainly been done by several European governments to attack the credibility of the Court for a political home bridge. The Danish government tried to fly the wings of Rasism and foreigners to Strasbourg, British politicians could not allow prisoners to vote, and men like Victor Orbán, Pútín, Salvini, and Erdogan could not hesitate to attack the basic human rights institutions in Europe to promote their national political and political policies at home. It's as unpleasant as I find that whole campaign with those powermen being the motivation for independence even worse because it's so cheap. I experience that this time the Court of Human Rights should be torn up just to protect the vanity of Sigríður Á. Andersen. It's something so patheticly cheap. No direction behind it, just self-interest and opportunity, as someone said the other day. Because we may have the opportunity to appeal to the judgment, there is little chance that his conclusion will change. The judgment is thorough and well - supported. He is in perfect harmony with a judgment example, and he rhymes well with the fundamental stand of the court that a court that is not legally appointed can't be viewed as a court of law. That's not a complicated attitude. She should not have surprised the government as she claims. Let's overlook the fact that from the beginning, Piratar and I have pointed out that this exact situation would probably come up, since listening to us doesn't always seem nice. But this outcome should not surprise the government. Yet, the former Minister of Justice notes that nothing has been done to prepare the Icelandic State, especially the judiciary system, one of the three arms of the government, for this outcome. No plan, no ideas. And that's why we're standing here, less than a week after the fall of the sentence, in the reality that last week the Court's work was completed, and the court's position is completely upset. We are at best concerned with handling the situation. But our worst concern is to prepare for months, even years, by uncertainty about the level of judgment, because the government thinks it can gain some money from appeal. It is my sincere opinion, Mr. President, that it does not serve the public interest of appeal to this court of Human Rights. I can't see how continued uncertainty about legality and the effectiveness of national rights is in the interest of anything unless the defiled political heritage of the former justice minister. We're not working for her here at this council. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u31	A respectable president. Judgment has failed, and it is urgent that the Council discuss the matter and the following steps. In my opinion, there are three things we need to discuss. First of all, there is absolute security in Iceland. Second, whether the case will be reviewed by the head of the court and third, the methodology used in the selection of judges. In my historical history, I will focus on what I believe is most critical, i.e. The government's decision to direct the case to the head of the court. To me, it is very important that we make peace with each other about how the United States, the government, and the courts work out this matter. We are all in the public service, and the people of the land must be able to trust that the system of judgment is solid and complete around it. As I mentioned earlier, the next step is that governments assess whether the case will be reviewed by the head of the court. There are three months of cases involved in making such a decision. It is important, in my opinion, to make a thorough assessment of the interests that recommend putting the matter to the head and that they will be weighed against interests that may recommend that they not be done. A respectable president. As we have seen, governments have called the most skilled experts for counseling. It is emphasized that the whole process of this matter is difficult and that trust is formed. We can do this together for the community. However, a decision on the matter cannot be made without weighing the impact of it on the state of the land and ensuring a natural environment of the court regardless of the decision. In my mind, it is very important that the Council cooperates in this important matter to support the legal system in Iceland. At one time, a decision was made at a council meeting on how we discussed the matter. The media requested more time to review the matter because they were working quite quickly. We're talking about a point of judgment in our country. So now we must have the good fortune to unite and cooperate. The people in this country deserve it. In fact, I have full faith that this will be the way the council works. It is clear that measurements of trust in the council are not what they should be, and all of us must handle the matter in a way that allows us to increase confidence in the International Council. This is a very good thing, I think, to work together and cooperate. Let's listen to each other, what we're saying here. These matters, as requested by the government, are important and are to be used. We should take advantage of what is stated in the case of the members of Congress. A respectable president. Many may have reacted favorably to this conclusion. But it doesn't matter right now. We've got to win an interest assessment for Iceland and then make a decision, weigh the benefits and benefits. The candidates give tremendous weight to the fact that this matter is being cooperated with the entire council, that there is complete transparency in all the practices. That is exactly what has been presented in the case of the highest court. Prime Minister. I think the language we heard in her history is important. In order to increase confidence in the General Assembly, we must combine and cooperate with the people and show them that this sort of professional and faithful language can be handled by the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u32	Mr. President. This issue is about a simple but very important point, that there is no doubt that the order of judges is in harmony with law. There we join the nations, the democracies, who want human rights to be highly respected and highly esteemed as separate from the State. Of course, it plays a key role in the independence of the courts. Three counts of judgment have now come to the conclusion that national rights have not been legalized. It was the decision of the district, the decision of the Supreme Court, and now the decision of the Court of Human Rights is the same. This is the fundamental issue. Indeed, the Court goes beyond the Supreme Court and concludes that since the law was not a law, it was an illegal practice, and Iceland thus failed at 6. The Convention of Human Rights. The conclusion may not have to be so surprising in view of the basics under which the order of the judge is acting. It may not be particularly surprising, especially in view of the development we see in some European countries, where legal independence is taking place, that the Court of Human Rights has drawn a clear line to the sand in these chemicals. Perhaps we want this judgment to explain the precedent so often referred to in the discussion and that as a democracies, we support the example he has set. The matter eventually centers on the independence of courts, and there is no doubt that they are acting in accordance with law. These are the rules that we have made in order to work behind. Those who have been before us in this hall have had the vision of appointing us to the countryside with the governments that have fought for freedom and general human rights, including those of the United States. involved in the European Convention on Human Rights. I certainly hope that there is no doubt in the games in this room that we intend to continue to follow that course firmly. It is worth keeping in mind the fundamental role of the European Court of Human Rights to protect the city's interests from the efforts of the government and the abuse of power. During the past week, it has been said repeatedly that the Court's results are technically not seen in binding areas and that responsibly include some sort of exposition of national sovereignty. That wording is of great concern, to say no more. The European Court of Human Rights was indeed formed to oversee the European Convention of Human Rights and to be followed in the Member States, to ensure that the national law and government in the Member States would not violate the human rights of those in the covenant. He was also set up to ensure that human rights are not only in word but also on a table. Commenting on the fact that the European Court has no jurisdiction here and that just listening to the results of these international batteries - we have, using proben, been a part of it, and we have a judge at the court - is, of course, some sort, of the sovereignty's exposé. But what is the complaint, and what rights are we talking about? In fact, when it comes to handing over the national sovereignty to the European Court of Human Rights, it is a complaint that the right of the State is being tried to violate the Constitutions of its citizens. On this basis, in view of the unprecedented nature of the case, the issue has been referred to by the court of Human Rights. But these statements raise two questions. First, ask: If the case has such high standards for the court and the judicial action, why did the judgment not personally request that the case be taken into custody as it is authorized? You see, this can end for two reasons, one because of the issue and the other because the judgment is required. But the judgment clearly did not feel the need to dismiss the case, and that may be because of questions number two - i.e. If the matter was really so revolutionary, how in the hell could the greater part of the case be referred to more than a ten - court example in the case? If we take these two things together, we will be able to refer to other examples of judgment in the conclusion that do not feel the need to refer the case to a statement, perhaps suggesting that the matter is not as exemplary as it is. Therefore, we must carefully consider whether there is a valid reason for appeal, as has been said or not to be more important, considering the interests of the legal state, that we monopolize ourselves in the steps needed to restore the state of the land's rights and to make sure that there is no question about the legitimate law. We too need to learn a wide range of lessons from this matter. We need to discuss how we think of the appointment of judges for the future, the role of ministers, emissaries, and the Allegors to such orders, ensuring that a state is established in the appropriate criteria for each appointment and not changed after practicality. I welcome the highest words. The prime minister that there is reason to pause and to make sure that the next step will be stepped aside and carefully examined. There's been a sufficient and serious mistake in this matter. I trust that this can result in a good transverse cooperation and that all options will be on the level, but will not be taken to any conclusion as a more premeditated, including speculation to appeal to the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u33	A respectable president. We and the General may have a problem. As mentioned in the case of the highest. When we were taking her over the report she gave us, we need to be careful. We need to be very careful, we are sending a message into the international community. How will the United States respond to the adverse judgment we have received from the European Court of Human Rights? It is worth taking a little look at why we are on the court of Human Rights. That's because we wanted to be classified as a state of justice. We wanted to protect civilians from abuse of power and violence. One factor is recognition of human rights. In 1950 the European Convention of Human Rights came into play. Soon Iceland validated this treaty, in 1953. The European Court of Human Rights is then formed in 1959. It took us a long time to legalize the covenant. We did not do this until 1993, and then we rebuilt the section of the Constitution, toward the European Convention of Human Rights. Time is not sufficient to deal with how we have in the past had to admit it. We have had an enormous amount of blood to prey on the citizens and even to the fact that they have not received the rights of 1 mg. Section 6. The Convention of Human Rights grants them, i.e. to present their cause before neutral and unjust courts. The message is now clear, Sigrides Andersen and the Council violated a national law at the order of judges in the court of the land. In this country, there is a total measure of justice in the case of the Court's judgments not only before but also now. The results were surprising to governments, apparently to be, even though the loud criticism voices were completely heard from the very beginning, from the very beginning of the case. It was clear from the time when the former legal rights minister chose to leave. She decided to ignore all the critical voices and all the opinions of experts who warned of the consequences of following the present - day arrangement. In September 2017, a federal law was found to have been violated by a court of law. In December of that year, the Supreme Court considered a violation of the order of a court of law to be a court of law. It is since June 2018 that the Court of Human Rights decided to act quickly. It is customary that it takes even three or five years to get his case before the court, i.e. if he/she has a head case for treatment. In this case, it seemed that this case was so growing that it was an exampleful, really without condemnation. Consider how this can deal with us and how serious the situation is. The European Court of Human Rights claims the Allied Council of Iceland for not rightfully upholding the legislation, has not been right to the order of judges, and although we are not bound by those judgments, we are bound by national rights by taking it into account, and that is what we have done so far. So far, we have respected the national commitments to heed the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. That's fine. If we are going to try to protect the Kingdom of justice that we will be so confident about and would like to be involved, we must also protect ourselves from the factors that come, from where they come, that can guarantee it and protect us against the exact things we do not want, the abuse of power, and the oppression of the rulers. That's why, as I talked about to the highest. The prime minister of the past, in view of all these judgments, three courts, those we have judged here at home and since the Court of Human Rights, to look to what right we have in it if we are not going to do anything more about the National Court than to watch that the 11 judges recommended by the Committee of Rights and approved here will continue to judge in the National Court while the other four of whom are largely concerned will receive no more judicial action. All judgments have been acknowledged that there was a wrong choice in the court, that there is no law against how we handled it. There was set up one package of all 15 judges without the taking for one judge at a time and laying for the council to accept or accept. If we are really going to talk about justice, it must be more likely that we will follow at least the rules now that the United States has, in fact, been reproved for not having done before. Instead of continuing in the trial, I feel that we are now at the point where we are simply obliged to be careful and really jump the cards completely. According to all of this, and including what has been accepted, that the then justice minister, Sigríður Andersen, actually violated the law, let's just say that, by the council, though the rule of government law, ten. gro, if it was also taken as a offense, it might have been in all directions much better. This does not change the fact that I want to say that as a minister of justice, I feel that she has done well in many ways, and I'm sorry that this situation has come up. Still, that's the situation. Maybe it's not appropriate for an officer of a government stand to say this, but I've felt that she's done very well, on the answers and on the other hand, and was really smart at what she's doing, it's quite surprising to me that her reaction was only slightly marked by the self - determination and self - determination that she is there with which she considers the sea above all the rights. That is what I would like to finally say: We are now at this fork. We have an obligation to be careful, and we can do so. Therefore, I say, let us unite wherever we stand and secure justice in our country. Let us do so quickly and safely so that there will be no doubt that subsequent judgments in the land are not subject to any doubt.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u34	President. I've kind of thought that the most brilliant light in the dark around this issue is what I've detected in this discussion of the need to come together in our reaction to it. It's a pleasure to hear it. People can have some meaning about exactly which direction to go, which specialists should listen, even the opinion that this should lift higher than the other, but I do not know just how strongly this case is to be taken, and that the reaction reflects it. Neither should it surprise anyone, nor should it surprise us who attended the discussion here in 2017. She was also very serious when the vote for a new judge was paid. We who shared in that vote, as well as many who were observing it, sensed it well, and talked a lot about that it was a big time that we should bite from the needle with which it has proved to be true. We spoke many times then that we should take more time. We wanted to postpone the case so that there would be a better argument and a better decision would be made. Sadly, it did not occur above. Instead, the present - day part of independence, restoration, and the future were decided to take another course, and we are discussing here the consequences of the entire decision and the case, as it has developed since then. That's why I like to experience this harmony in everyone here today, and I look intently at how we can cope with this situation. Although the conclusion of what we choose may eventually become very complex, I feel that our assignment is simple. Our task is to respond to this judgment. This discussion has somehow gone out to my understanding and south, what we have seen from time to time since this judgment was passed, discussing the entire Human Rights Court, the Convention of Human Rights, and some words that have fallen here or there, and someone has this opinion and another. I think it's just a sidebar. But I can say here, have said it before, and thought there was an agreement, that the European Court of Human Rights is one of the most important institutions we are involved in. To this country, there's been an enormous amount of legal rights being done through our membership there. I worked hard as a journalist for a long time. This class is well aware of the importance of the European Court of Human Rights, since in this town, people have often had a more modern and progressive view of journalism than have sometimes had by Icelandic courts. So we've picked up a lot in that stream. And then there is the severity of the judgment to all of us, all of us have to listen to the discussion here. Clearly, this is a judgment that affects all three branches of the State. The severity of such a judgment and the magnitude of the response to such judgment need not be taken into consideration. Such practices cannot be flaunted and not justified in calling after one, two and three as soon as the judgment is down. I would find it unscrupulous if right now there was a question of how to respond to the decision of this court. There has been our presentation in the left green ever since this case came up that we should listen to specialists, from the moment this case was discussed at the council of 2016◯2017. We should have listened to experts on their lists, and now we're supposed to acquire knowledge and advice from our best experts. That's exactly what they're doing and what they're doing. Prime Minister introduced earlier. The minister has accepted political responsibility, is no longer the minister of judicial cases. I spoke of a simple project, but as soon as it was complicated, not all agree on how far this judgment can be drawn. That's one of the things I'm so happy about being called in to write and plan are taking over. What can be drawn from the judgment far - reaching conclusion? What reaction is needed immediately? Are we talking about four judges, 11, 15, all these matters that we have discussed here? In these matters, we should listen to our finest people. Then we can discuss and take their stand, since the reaction must also be in a certain way. Some have to resort to it sooner than others. One point to consider is whether this matter should continue to be addressed. How would that affect the state of the land? The normal environment of the courts, regardless of any decision making, is required in both this and other matters. As I mentioned earlier, and as more people have been coming in here, it involves all three branches of the government so that we can imagine how far the reaction needs to be. They need to be reconciled to my knowledge, and all that has been proclaimed has been done is that it is what we are working on. Our task is to deal with this and to do what is right. We need to respond to the judgment, resort to specific action that it moves us to take, but our mission is, especially, to build confidence in the judicial system. There is no small project, nothing more important than working together on that project. An occasional discount and what we say about something we want to be noticed by it is of no importance. In this regard, it is important that we take careful action and step to the earth. Earlier in this discussion, transnational reconciliation was discussed in this topic. I totally agree with that, but I don't think it's even that. I think we need to make some community peace about how we're going to react to this. This is our project as a community. That's why I've been very happy with how much I've responded. Prime Minister in this matter. They have been characterised by immediate action taken, professional people call the table that knows things best, and practice the professional practices that are already needed to be as important as this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u35	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The first - century minister of her report feels that she has a good tone of voice during the discussion. Icelanders will not compromise our obligations to national rights. In a sense, the Court has completed the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights by determining that four judges will not be involved in judicial action. By doing so, the National Court has made room for governments to remove permanent relief. The objective must be to provide adequate support to the land's rights so that judges can do their jobs and that the peace of the intermediary world can prevail. It should be noted that no one has questioned the qualifications of the judges confirmed by the Council by the Council of Justice. It must be called to the most skilled men, like the highest. Prime Minister Shalt, and after an incident, seek advice on the counsel of the European Commission, if necessary, under the supervision of the Court of Human Rights in the European Court of Human Rights. It's a great thing to be praised. The prime minister preaches a consultation between classes. Care should be taken not to crash into decisions, e.g. to increase the number of judges in the United States before all aspects of this matter have been fully investigated with the objective of creating a suitable national site. At the same time, it is vital that the decision be made only after careful consideration of the appeal of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. Far from being obvious, then, it is an ideal option. An appeal requires chronic uncertainty, and the conclusion is far from premeditated. The judgment of the European Court of Human Rights split, returning two judges a special mask. Interestingly, the harshness of criticism of the judgment of the greater part is reflected in the minority opinion. It is enough to mention two points in this regard, that it is disfellowshipped from an established local rule, and that the judgment takes some into account political views. The reference rule means that the courts of Member States are given a set amount of space that is limited to their not crossing certain boundaries. This is not to be distributed with regard to the judgment of local courts. All the power elements of the Icelandic government have arrived at the order of the judges to the National Court, to the Commission, to the General and to the Supreme Court, and as the President of Iceland signed their commission after making a special investigation of the treatment at the General Assembly. There is now a judgment in which a certain formality, which is to be minimized, is largely disintegrated in the Member States of the European Court of Human Rights, which is accepted as a democratic and judicial state. The other factor that calls attention to the criticism of the lesser parts of the judges is the restoration of political views. In this regard, we can say that a more serious court sentence could be judged than that it would appear to be viewed by political or political views. Advertisements and laws should determine the outcome of courts, as everyone knows. I allow me to express my opinion that the court may further be criticized for the lack of criticism of the employment practices of the selection committee, which the majority claim to the appointed specialists, even though not all members of the Committee are educated in legal science. Although the calculated difference between candidates was only measured in a second or third decimal and that an important assessment of the work of the judge was released by giving all candidates the same grade for this factor, the Committee provided a list of 15 names, as many as was required, thus providing no scope for the selection between qualified candidates. Perhaps there would have been no need for knowledge in any field to realize that the order of 15 judges in which gender differences between two thirds and one third were not supported by the Council, which was not true. Mr. President. Finally, I want to state that there is good reason for a review of the arrangements under the order of the judge. There must be a moderate means here, for it is careful that social authority is not placed in the hands of people who will not be responsible. The key point leading up to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights is to produce a successful result, one that is in common with Iceland as a democracy and a state of justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u36	Mr. President. V.E.G. In the media, the prime minister has observed that it was not prepared for the outcome we received from the European Court of Human Rights last week. I'd like to state that I was not prepared for this reaction by the government, and it was months from the time the case was sent to the Court of Human Rights and weeks from the time we were informed that the court's decision was made on this matter. You see, when judicial action is taken, whether for offense or for defense, everyone knows that the result can actually go anywhere, no matter what he wishes. So when I heard that the government had not been prepared for this conclusion because the colleagues I've talked to during the past month were just not surprised at this conclusion. That is exactly what they expected. Then you wonder who the government was discussing. Was it just individuals who have never been court officials who think that because they feel that they are in some position, the court would agree with them? It was anticipated that land would be hit if this took place, as many had predicted, a lot of law experts, that Iceland would be judged for having violated the 6th degree. European Convention of Human Rights. As early as the last week or the same day, on March 11, the National Court failed, the National Court was prepared to do so. Similarly, the Supreme Court responded to the same day and sent letters to all those in charge. Similarly, the court office responded immediately - but the government was not prepared. The court lay down for a week, all as one. What does that mean? What are the issues of this situation under government rule? What are the benefits? What's the big deal over there? We're talking about assault cases, sexual abuse, restraining order, child abuse, child protection, custody cases, custody cases, forced care cases, saving children outside the home, etc. but also many concerns about money, which have very little emotions and can therefore completely wait. But this, Mr. President, is the case that may now be held by government. The metal level is unpredictable. A third judge of the U.S. Court's rights is incompetent to the government. There have been 82 cases that have fallen in the past 15 months, just for the district attorney, which now remains uncertain. That is 42 sexual abuse cases. And what are the costs of all of this? We saw in a brief review that ten cases for one judge who has judged 128 matters are the cost of a court case of 28 million. K. and we're just talking about our own lawyers. We're not talking about the cost of a federal attorney or a federal attorney. - The government's cost of reimbursement, the cost of suspense for the European Court of Human Rights? It was a pleasure to hear a clear stand. The prime minister of the European Court of Human Rights and that this judgment should be taken seriously. You see, we're being watched from outside the world. There are judges in Europe and European lawyers who welcome this conclusion because they know that the independent courts are fundamentally fundamental. But it was not as pleasant to hear when it was the highest. The prime minister asked how far the European Court of Human Rights could go against the independence of the Member States because you begin to ask: Has the government forgotten the purpose of the covenant? Has the government forgotten what is the purpose of the European Convention, which is to guarantee the rights of citizens of the Member States against the violence of the European Commission, against the violence of the governments, in the Member States? Why do we need independent, hostile courts? This is to ensure the right of the citizens, that they may receive justice in their affairs, in matters contrary to the kingdom, or by the kingdom against the citizens. It will not be guaranteed if the government of the country holds its judges in court. This is the severity of it. All interests must be valued as we look at the rest of our life. My old law class colleagues do little more than answer to their clients who either want to make a comeback or postpone a loan. Rearing, how will the government suggest that it be accomplished? As mentioned earlier, it's 82 cases just for state attorney, 31 child protection cases. What about the 11 other judges? Are we confident that the right of the land can function as he intends to work through this week? When will the day come when some lawyer will leave and test it out in Strasbourg of the European Court of Human Rights? No, Mr. President, I would sincerely like to ask the government to try to reduce the damage we are now facing because of the Trustees of Sigríður Á. Andersen in the ministry of the Minister of Justice and to evaluate the interests of rebuilding the National Rights again rather than continue this uncertainty with appeal to the review.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u37	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for this report on the response of the government to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. The matter is not simple, but it is not that we cannot interpret it. We are not supposed to create despair or chaos. Similarly, the case is bigger than that, so that it can be placed in a group of political uniforms. However, we here have an obligation to avoid political migratory or to bring the discussion down to an even lower level. We need to be able to make wise decisions in order to discuss matters carefully and to determine how we want to do so and to think that it is proper to act in harmony with the order of a judge for the future. Only then can we trust the foundation of courts that a free society needs to trust. To put matters in perspective, it is interesting to consider what former judge of the European Court of Human Rights, Davíð Björgvinsson, wrote in an article on the National Court case in the summer of 2018. He is now one of the judges of the Land Court. In his article, Davíð Þór carefully that the order of all the judges to the land's rights had been fulfilled during the signing of their commissions on June 8, 2017, and quoted from the Supreme Court, which had been handled. It stated that all judges of the land's rights met the criteria for receiving an office of command, including the law of the law. In the light of career and legal knowledge, that they would be removed only by judgment. I am here to quote from the conclusions of the aforementioned articles, by permission of the president: In a very short and simple case, the Supreme Court believes that while a minister is in charge of the order A is violated against Article 10. However, A administrative law would be as legal as a court order and would have been counted to that [represented, is incorrect because of his experience and knowledge of the law, and would be able to use the legal rights as such as other judges. According to the highest court of our Icelanders, the Supreme Court, there is no question of the legal rights of the land or of the judges sitting there. The majority of the European Court of Human Rights then came to the conclusion that they were not correct in dealing with the order of a court judge in the land and that the violations were considered to be significant. The covenant. However, it is also clear that the end point is rather vague and can be concluded from last week's discussion, in which many have expressed themselves differently, that the outcome remains quite uncertain. Lawyers have also warned that the conclusion should not be often dismissed. In these words, there is no criticism of the European Court of Human Rights as an institution. It is natural that all stones are rolled about in such a vital matter, a potentially extending to other European countries. The European Court of Human Rights has had an important influence on the Icelandic legal system. We built even. In accordance with the Convention on Human Rights, the Constitutions of our 1995 Constitutions are members of the Convention because we want the Court's judgments to be taken into account and that they have meaning for us. However, he does not have a direct right effect in this country. And like Davíð, Þór Björgvinsson's son, in the same article, with the permission of a president, changes sentence, if that is the case, nothing that the sentence against G stands unfashioned, so MDE is not a court of appeals that can disqualify courts. That judgment stands unless g case is repeated according to the rules available in Iceland on the resurgence of the paintings to be repeated. A respectable president. Again, it is important to deal with such matters from a balanced and responsible standpoint. It is easy to crawl into political holes and hope to score a few points, but it is harder to face the project and deal with matters in a balanced and responsible manner. In the past, it has been stated that it is reasonable to refer the case to the head of the European Court of Human Rights, leaving the sentence unprecedented and the minority irreverent to the decision of the greater part. This gives us a clue about the different viewpoints that are certainly present in this matter. Again, it should be borne in mind that this also does not involve criticism of the court as an institution. During this process, solutions will continue to be sought, and after events, they will respond to the potential challenges. The most important thing is that the National Court can function and that there is no justice in this country. Here again, the responsibility of the Generals and of us here will be tested to take the next steps off careful management. V.E.G. President. We are responsible for this administration, and we must take advantage of this opportunity to consider the best course of action in the order of a judge so that all criticism is under way, does not discriminate, and does not cause contention. It's our job to get this process in place. Are we going to let other judges choose a partner? Is the Qualified Committee to Serve? What's the role of the Minister and the General? Do we want to see other viewpoints, such as the experience of judges and perhaps the sense of sex? Do we want to make a decision and a responsibility to those taking it? All of these are questions that we need to consider and answer. But one thing is clear: We must make a decision and responsibility together. That's key.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u38	V.E.G. President. We will discuss the response of the government to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, a verbal report at the highest level. Prime Minister. The Court has reached its conclusion, and it passed March 12. There have been discussions and tore, and much has been done since that day in political politics and professionally in the politics, since we take the sentence very seriously, as reflected in today's discussion. V.E.G. Before his death, the prime minister handled the work that took place in the leading of the judgment and possible consequences and possible consequences of the judgment. At the same time, it must be important to look for as many of our viewpoints as possible and from most of the points of our community. The European Court of Human Rights found that the appointment of judges to the Court was not in harmony with Article 6. The Convention of Human Rights. In short, in human language, the court's decision is that the court was not duly appointed. The European Court of Human Rights reports that there has been a violation of a person without questioning the rights of a judge, but this and other developments have been discussed in the media and in the various areas of judgment that were split into more and less parts. I'm not going to trace it any further, Mr. Honorable President, but it is certainly confirmed that there are errors in the formality of the court order. Government laws were violated, and the council did not vote on an individual basis. The result is clear, and we need to respond to it. It should be clear to the people that we take the judgment very seriously. V.E.G. former justice minister, Sigríður Á. Andersen, has disfellowshipped and accepted his responsibility so that her person would not get involved, as she herself put it, so that the situation and the peace of the State can be resolved. I respect the decision, and I appreciate a minister who puts the court and his credibility at work ahead of his character and values the greater interests. That's a big decision, and we respect it. It is also to be seen that we are deeply concerned about the kingship and that we are. to this end members of the European Convention and the Court of Human Rights. There is also the fact that while the judgment does not have a direct bearing on the land, the consequences will be if we do not follow the decision and make needed improvements to break the commitments of the covenant. Thus, all of us are concerned about the state of justice and respect for human rights. I think that was very helpful in the discussion. The most important thing must be how we act on national rights and guarantees that there will be uncertainty about the legal system and the legal rights to be brought to an end. Confidence in the right is needed so that confidence in the courts becomes the best. What we do next must be what really matters at this point, and it is important that we make decisions in the near future. That task management has taken the highest priority. Minister of Justice, Þórdís Kolb Kolbrún R. Gylfadóttir, and we trust the minister to manage them. The project, in effect, is threefold, and it went to the highest level. Minister well over that as well as the highest. Minister of Education and Culture, Lilja Alfreðsdóttir. First, it is the effectiveness and credibility of the Land Court ahead, where the justice will depend. Second, a reimbursement and a review of the procedures that we have a choice of judgment and, third, a decision to turn the case to the court's head. Whether it is normal to submit the case to court, there are three months to make such a decision, and a thorough assessment of interest needs to be made. The judgment is said to be an example, and it can have far - reaching consequences for more nations. Then we must want to get a clear message about what the situation is and what the message is. That is the work ahead of us, and it is important that we be careful about it and make sure that the level of judgment and the order is above doubt. It's our duty to keep in mind and to make sure that the politics will not interfere with their work. A respectable president. I welcome the declarations of all political parties who have declared their support to unite in that work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u39	Mr. President. We are faced with a difficult, serious assignment, and it is urgent that we do so without delay. One of the cornerstones of the state of justice itself is beneath. It is important that we do so within the rights of the European Convention and the European Court of Human Rights. The Member States have brought us much rights and timely reviews in many areas, not of the General Assembly, of the European Commission, or of the National Court, or of our own initiative. It is our duty, whether in a government or in a position of government, to approach the project with humility and respect for ourselves. Mr. President. The discharge of this project is not a government matter. Political interests or the pride of an individual minister who has the interests of government or government opposition cannot be controlled. All the processes of this case from the beginning to this day show that when a new important judgment level was established, it was not right. Everyone involved in the process must learn a lesson, including the one listed here. Because of the growth of the situation, the first reaction to the government was frustration. It was disappointing that a former justice minister deposed the reputation that she did not agree with the findings of the Court of Human Rights and immediately published her opinion of the new Supreme Court. Minister of Justice that, of course, the case should be applied to the treatment of the head of the European Court of Human Rights. In the same vein, other ministers in the government, including the highest. Prime Minister. Most seriously, however, it was to hear the view that the European Court of Human Rights had gone beyond its authority and on pathways requiring that Iceland take a stand to see if his judgments should be handled and if they would usually have any effect on the country. Sadly, the first reaction to the government does not reflect careful consideration. Happily, though, a certain new tone of speech was heard in the highest language. Prime Minister and new highest. Minister of Justice. Mr. President. At times, it is best to recognize the power, to make a confession, but not to beat his head at the stone in hopes that the stone will eventually break, not his head. The person currently does not have the best ways to go. However, I do know that when an assignment like this exists, it must be checked out. First, we need to identify the problem. The conditions that must be met in order to be found must be determined. In this case functional land right, where the order of all judges meets the strictest conditions and can thus have confidence in the future. There is a need to determine which steps can be taken to get things right, what can be done for a short time, and what can be done for a long time. All options must be set up and carefully checked and considered for each of them, and whether they are a contribution to a successful solution. Only with this type of work is there good results to make peace and prevent uncertainty and chaos. For this work, we are supposed to call our most skilled experts, saving ourselves large statements on what is best until they have had the means to cross the post and put forth their suggestions and ideas. Mr. President. The government is now testing. She must approach this project with humility and respect and must come together with the Council to resolve the matter, of course, in an effort to cooperate with the government. Fortunately, the report will be at the top of the report. The prime minister promises that this course will be followed. Mr. President. What is not to be done in the future is that the case will be dealt with as some kind of fight for Iceland's sovereignty and its independence campaign against foreign intervention. If it comes down to this, there's danger. Let us not forget that we are members of the European Convention of Human Rights and the European Court of Human Rights. This is especially true in order to protect citizens' rights from mistakes and mismanagement by the European government. It is the interests we should protect and ensure by all means. Let us not forget this basic principle of handling this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u40	Mr. President. In the beginning, I want to thank you for this discussion as the highest. Prime Minister leads. In a brief talk, you will not be able to handle such an important subject as this one, but the previous speakers have been very careful in reviewing the points. We here discuss the recent decision made by the European Court of Human Rights, which upsets the national judiciary and that the Minister of Justice decided to step aside. There is no doubt in the mind that the European Court of Human Rights has accomplished much in the field of human rights and has done many good things, and we are taught not to argue with the judge. In the minority opinion, there is speculation that political decisions take account of the greater part. Of course, the fact that judges have such meditation in their own personal sense is very serious. It is, of course, very sad if the court concluded that the Court of Human Rights has a sentence that dishonors belief in a lot of the courts here. But where have we come now when the court has decided to judge Iceland in a legal way in which the legislature authority had chosen the Court of Justice and our president specifically investigated the matter and did not find any wrongs and the Supreme Court of Iceland finally thought, despite the limitations of a court order, that the counseled judges were impartial and legally appointed in their professions? Despite the fact that all the rulers of public authority here in Iceland thus approved the order of these judges, the Court of Human Rights puts the system of justice in full turmoil here at the same time under a call to run after political winds. Is it possible to conclude that all these principal members of the Icelandic government system were so speculative about the matter and its implementation? It has been pointed out, including of former justice minister, Ögmundur, son of Jónasson, that the situation of human rights in Turkey is extremely poor, to say the least. The alleged atrocities committed to this same court of rights were put to death in court that it could not be considered in a court of law where it could not be emptied from local courts. In other words, the matter was to be taken all the way through an almost unattainable judicial system in Turkey before the Court of Human Rights could discuss it. Since we are talking about important human rights matters, it brings to mind the position of human rights in Catalonia, Spain. There, politicians fought for their homeland, but they were in prison because they were pursuing political goals that did not please the government in Madrid. Surprisingly, very serious human rights violations are being committed in the continent of Europe without any apparent intervening response or that governments responsible for them are compelled to abandon them. Could it be that there are other forms of another and a much more serious consideration? In discussing the judgment, there has been no lack of suggestions, and response to it has been through the news media that has had eight - story Slicks in the past. The land rights have responded. I would have thought the best thing to do would be to eliminate the uncertainty as soon as possible and to seek to correct the situation in this country. It would take a major policy to rebuild the national rights and the judicial system. Then the order of the judges must be taken in an acceptable fashion, where I believe the Minister of Justice must be held accountable for the selection of judges, so that, based on the findings of the commission, where candidates are organized into a few groups of qualifications, the Ministers can appoint judges from among qualified candidates. Mr. President. The visit by Generalis to a judge's order is merely questionable, and it has been most evident in terms of national rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u41	Mr. President. I wanted to say, in the beginning, like other speakers, thank you very much. Prime Minister for the report she began this discussion on today. In general, the conversation today was rather upbuilding, indicating that most people in this house are willing to sit down and discuss matters on some objective terms. From that point on, there are certain exceptions, but hopefully they were shocked. Today, members of the council who have been very upset with this discussion so that these matters can be discussed on upbuilding terms with a view to sorting out the issues that are certainly up to us to resolve, and that humans can, in this way, simply put aside, at least. For the time being, class of stereochromes. This does not require that everyone agree on all things, whether the findings of the European Court of Human Rights or the response of the government to them. On the other hand, we face a common challenge that we need to resolve, subjects, so to speak, more than one. I think it would be good for us to do so in a very meaningful way and with the consideration of bringing matters to a successful conclusion rather than making decisions about some political opinion in the way that has run into the individual speakers here today. However, I note that basically, the discussion has been on purpose and upbuilding. The first thing we need to consider, of course, is the current standing of courts. Foremostly, matters are clear in that the findings of the European Court of Human Rights do not have a direct influence on the land, so national rights and courts are the same according to the judgment as for them. That fact is clear, and it must affect the way we handle the situation. This is not to say that the findings of the European Court of Human Rights do not affect the country. Clearly, we are bound by the Convention of Human Rights and by national rights, and we need to respond in some way. But I think we must breathe with our nose as we discuss the position of the judges and the court in view of the findings of the European Court of Human Rights and look to the material issues involved. And I don't think it serves a purpose to try to do more than the material being out of the alleged agitation, because the language came up and that sort of thing. I'm not sure there's a whole line of opinions that's been said on that subject, at least. for the number of cases and the like. But we certainly stand up to find solutions in the manner of the land's arrangement. The position of these judges must be considered, and in what ways should we respond? We need to ask ourselves, " What is the difference between the position of four judges and 11 in this regard? ' There is reason to recall, as more than one has done in this discussion, that when voted for judicial matters at the council, it was the same way with all 15. If a person thinks that the vote has been done in the way of the event, that is just as serious as any 15 people do. Of course, the issue was different with the four and 11, than the procedure involved in handling the council applies equally to all of them. This is one of the things we need to keep in mind in this discussion. There is another factor, of course, that we need to consider, and I have some certain evidence that it is reasonable for me to feel that it is reasonable for me to test whether the court's territory is ready to take this case for reevaluation. We don't talk about appeal in this regard, I understand, according to those who are best used in the conceptual use of the European Court of Human Rights, but there is a right to ask for this review of the Grand Chamber Panel. I think it's normal for a person to be seriously examined. It is then the decision of the superintendent to decide whether to handle a matter, and of course we do not know in advance what the outcome will be, or what the material outcome would be if the matter was taken until a material conclusion. But my first reaction is that it would be unnatural not to try whether this department is ready to take this out for some sort of reassessment or review or what we would call the treatment that would take place there. But I can agree with that with the highest. Of course, before making a decision, a prime minister needs to evaluate all aspects of the matter. But I feel, looking at this without having been able to lay down in general except like any other senator here, that it would be normal to look for permission to shoot the case there. Then let us not forget that, and in that regard, there is a valid reason to accept in a certain way the last speaker's words, giddy. paritaprevir Gauti Hjaltason, that we need to focus on how we want to set these matters permanently during the council, where to cause and where to take the lead. Present - day legal requirements offer certain dangers, as perhaps experiences show. We need to weigh it and weigh it honestly and discuss honestly whether we believe that a judicial committee or a judicial committee should really have the final decision regarding a judge's choice, whether the arrival of a judicial minister should only be formal, not material, and finally what the coming of the council should be, what the role the Senate should play if the Senate should vote on judicial matters. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is it meant to agree or refuse, or should it include some kind of administrative lawsuit or reevaluation of administrative factors? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] These are questions that we need to answer next. [[The president calls.]] But the other subjects I mention may be more urgent in time. Mr. President. I apologize for having gone ahead of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u42	It was appropriate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u43	Mr. President. After this discussion, I wholeheartedly agree with what has been said in the vast majority of cases; it is most desirable to take the orders of judges from political holes. The only way to do this is to limit the authority of ministers and governments and others to appoint judges in political order. It's the only way to take this matter out of political holes. When trying to appoint judges politically, we, in politics, go in order to protect and promote civil rights, this fundamental right of the citizens, in this case, to install hostile and independent courts, ordering the law, and then, of course, of course, we will go to the holes in the rights of all citizens. Sadly, judges'orders have been a class of predominantly Catholic for a very long time and no doubt since the beginning. If we look at the United States, it is always a very political factor on what it is like to appoint judges. Over the decades, ministers have appointed judges to be political, and all who have observed the social talk have seen this battle taking place in the community. True, we have been on the right road during the past few years, although we have not reached our destination, i.e. That by law we have been inculcating the authority of a minister by further means of enforcing. There's a proper committee in front of a minister for loose eagles, which is good. But a minister must back up when he changes, and that is the most qualified one he intends to install. That's exactly what we criticized is that a minister did not do in this case and has been sentenced in the federal court, the Supreme Court, and the European Court of Human Rights for violating the law regarding that investigation. But because a minister did not examine it and argues, we cannot know that a minister has legalized the order of appointing the judges. Yes, they were all fit, but the law says that the judges are not appointed, and the Constitution says not to order judges according to the law. But this is the route, and this has been framed. It just didn't work. The NTSB was in front, General on the back. That didn't work. The safety valve at the sites did not work either. The legal action we have failed to prevent the political orders of the judge this time. But we're on the right road, so let's hope we keep it going. Happily, however, there was one safety valve left, the European Court of Human Rights, which has now prevented the appointment of a minister for this time by a political judge, with all the costs of course, which means that we must set a better law on which judges are appointed so that no one can do it politically, distribute the greater power, perhaps have more defenses, perhaps 2/3 in the council needs to agree on it, etc. Then we can stop these things from happening. Then we can prevent judges from being appointed political. Then we can take the orders of judges out of the political pits where it has always been. I will continue to work on the fact that the order of judges will not be political and support all efforts by the government in that we can set this up above the politicians. If a newly appointed minister of justice really wanted to revise a court law to limit the possibility that judges would be appointed political, it would go very out of the pits right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u44	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a verbal report by the prime minister on the response of the government to the European Court of Human Rights on the order of judges to the National Court. We'll discuss the reactions, possibly appeal and options for the situation. There has already been much I can say here, such as about the need for more efficient development, the importance of broad expert advice, including From abroad, as well as wide consultations within the country, across politics. I want to look back on the time when we discussed the bill that became the law No. 50/2016, the courts. Then, as noted in a committee list, the importance of justice laws and the importance of courts reflected society more closely in the proportion of the sexes than they did at that time. I think it's important that we discuss that point right here, because it's at least there. one of the main reasons for the work we are facing today. The creation of an intermediate level in Iceland was a huge and important step, but unfortunately we did not achieve solidarity, either within the council or on the outside, on ways to determine in the law of practical processes to be equal to the order of a judge and there were also differences in experience. However, the gender ratio included an appropriate factor. Could it not have been the whole time in the air that the assessment would be a possibility that other men would be placed at the top of the list of qualifications if there was no validation? Do we not need more objective goals and goals? Also, I would like to give a witness to the work and to the Commission of General and Education at a Council of 146, where the Court's Laws were changed and discussed the qualifications of judicial committees. It even says, by permission of the president: However, if a judicial committee has considered two or more candidates equally qualified, laws on equal status and male and female rights can be tried, no. 10/2008, at the decision of a minister on the order of the judge, the greater part emphasizes that a minister has a goal in the context of the equivalent of gender proportions among the appointed judges. The two members of the Committee had been running elections, as we know, and perhaps there was a rift in the discussion. I believe it is important that in the work that is now ahead, we determine whether an acceptable equality in the group of judges can be guaranteed permanently in a transparent and reliable process. The judgment we face is serious, and as we now see it, the problem of action, the effortless action, and the certainty that future judges' orders will be lifted above all doubt, in accordance with human rights and laws. It was helpful to note that most people agree that we must work together to replace them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-18-79.u45	Mr. President. I have a short time at the end of this discussion, but I want to thank you for your time. I'll tell you what. People in general approach this assignment exactly as I had requested, i.e. They view it as the ultimate task of careful reviewing the situation, making it possible for the General and the government to work together to ensure the security, to eliminate uncertainty, and to create long - term differences in the order of courts. I am very optimistic and optimistic, depending on the tone I hear at the end of the day. Parliamentaries at that job. On the other hand, I must make a note of it in various ways. Congress officials have particularly wanted to discuss former U.S. Marshals. Minister of Justice. I reiterate that she has accepted political responsibility for the case. She's been dislocated. I could have stayed in a chair myself to recall events since the summer of 2017, but our work now is to look ahead, to solve the present problem. L think it's very important. I'd like to say, too, that there are some who are down there. Councilmen have missed the course in active listening, not noticing what was presented in my case as to what was being done in preparation for this judgment. I'm not to be confused with what I've said about the surprise of the judgment because it's unprecedented. The lack of preparation should not be confused. I know that it is often difficult to understand a language, so I repeat it once more, so to speak. Senators who obviously did not realize what I was saying take it in. It was mentioned that Iceland had never referred to the head of the European Court of Human Rights. Let us see that, first of all, only about 5% of cases go there and only if the department agrees, but that is not unusual. France has done so this year, Belgium, Spain, and other countries. So it is not as if war gloves were thrown by that route. That was clearly noticed by me and by the highest. The Minister of Justice to make such a decision only after careful consideration of what it means and how we can ensure that it does not cause any further uncertainty regarding the general public as belonging to the courts. It's a big guide. Of course, I think there have been some questions during a review of the court as lawyers I've discussed with me and that it would be interesting to get a final decision in the department. In this regard, we simply need to evaluate how their interests work together and deal with them. I'd like to finally say that we'll be able to keep what we were preaching in the first place. [[The president calls.]] We will consult with the prefects and inform us about the situation. I expect that Council to be informed of its progress. [[The president calls.]] I reiterate that I welcome the tone I hear from most members of the council.
