ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u1	The president wants to inform us that a letter has been received from the Secretary of State and Health, where request is made to provide written answers to the application for this request. 64, of the EU energy package, Community monitoring centres and the EEA Convention, from Óli Kárason Kárson; request for cover. 1036 of the newspaper, magazines, and other media subscriptions from Björn Leví Gunnarsson; i.e., i. e., i. 978, about the number of people with motor impairment evaluations and the number of those using aid tools, from the Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson; and the question for covering. 1020, about nursing and living space, from Brá Konráðsdóttir Consgisdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u2	Today, financial discussions will be held by the Ministers explaining and participating in discussions about their ethnic groups. A series of ministers will be as follows: health ministers, travel, industrial and innovation ministers, social and child-friendly minister, minister of education and culture, Minister of Justice, Environmental and Resource Ministers and Foreign Ministers. Over an hour and a half will be scheduled for each minister and discussion of his lawsuits. Ministers have five minutes in the beginning to discuss their lawsuits. Thereafter, members of Parliament can direct inquiry to the Minister, one from each cabinet for each minister, with the exception of members of the council of the local minister, and two from each government row. Senators and Ministers get two minutes the first time, and one minute later, both traffic. Those answers will not be allowed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u3	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a proposal for a resolution on a financial plan for the period 2020-2024. As a health minister, I focus my eyes on a health - care field, for example, for use in public health. One of the main priorities of the government is to promote health and health care. It is essential that the Generals and the national groups all be united in good agreement for clear health policy. Last January. I proposed to the General Assembly a health policy resolution proposal for the year 2030. It has a policy of living in a safe and efficient health service with equal access, security, quality, and coherence. The future view is that public health and prevention are the best - known and the best. The policy puts emphasis on seven basics that the health system must based on all health care services provided. These core provisions depend on the management and leadership of the health system, the importance of proper service to the right places, for the development and structure of human resources, for the targeted and practical purchase of health care services, the authority of users, the quality of the services providers and for the future visions of education, science, and the innovation of the health system. The emphasis on the growth of health care needs to be seen when considering the financial programs discussed here. Thus, annual donations to health will be about 267 billion at the end of the period, or about 28 billion dollars. higher in 2024, this year's budget is set. This is an increase of over 11% in real value. Patients in medical care will continue to be helped to reduce the payback and are expected to provide an abundance of over 9 billion dollars. in the next five years to do so, connected. Our goal is to approach normal North countries in the payment of patients. Health care will be further promoted as the first site of medical care, including with the presence of other professions to the ministry and increased teamwork. It is a major source of mental - health benefits, including those of a mental - health professional. increase in psychologic services and intensification of mental health in all national health situations, in accordance with mental health policies and procedures. Satisfactory care is a ongoing challenge, and this is discussed in health policy to 2030. During this period, human forecasts for the health system will be launched and the means will be developed to create a desired healthcare professional site. With the establishment of the National Fund of 2020-22022, 133 could be built in addition to the 790 already on a projection program and the number of day - to - day resorts will be increasing. It is directed to promote health care with the elderly in general. The structure means more space to improve flexibility within the current system so that the service can be improved and met as fully as possible at any given time. The organized health care of the elderly will be implemented in all health laws, and special emphasis is placed on promoting and supporting the health of the elderly. Strain costs, including By building, there will be 100 billion in the period. The building of the treatment core of the Land Hospital and the construction of a research building will continue unabated. In the latter part of a financial program, the construction of a new area building at the Akureyri Hospital will be under attack. By the end of the last year, I confirmed a surgeon's work on quality development in health care until 2030. The plan is one of the health policy cornerstones and is subject to safety, bioavailability and effectiveness of health care in the country. A cancer plan has been agreed on until 2030, including the year 2030. emphasise the prevention and early diagnosis of cancer. A consulting of screens recently gave me suggestions for future screening procedures at national level, and a project management will be arranged to implement and prepare the introduction to the council's proposals. In accordance with the pharmacological policy, public access to the necessary medicinal products will be systematically improved, management of the medicinal product deficiency, and reduction of the prescribing of medicinal products by patients. The aim is to improve the bioavailability of women to a more sensitive position on hormonal contraception. Vaccination against varicella starts next year. Increased funds will be spent to further the prevention of improved human health. In order to cope with drug abuse, money will be used in an antiviolence program. The structure and development of electronic records, electronic records, and electronic records on a national scale continue. Electrical communication with patients will be improved and increased in promoting long - term health care. A respectable president. I have considered the main focus of the health system in the financial program discussed here. We are faced with a number of challenges in health care. To meet them in a consistent, efficient and practical way, with the best interests of patients, a clear vision is to be built. I am convinced that new health - care policies will be an important guide for the coming years and will allow us to promote health care in the whole country, improve its quality, and increase the equation among users in an efficient and practical way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u4	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. The health minister is very much needed. There has been a large increase in government contribution to health - related climates, and it seems to me that there will continue to be an increase in that number. Most of the money for this time goes into operation in a new hospital and all I can see is that for this, other health institutions around the country, including the nursing home. The financial programme is expected to promote specialised hospital services at a hospital with increasing walking care. It requires increasing the number of employees aimed at improving performance, as mentioned. I wondered if we should renegotiate with specialists outside the hospital. Also, questions arise involving the management of a nursing home. The emphasis I'd like to put in the first time I've been brought up here is mental health. It is planned to include less than 5 billion persons within the medical facility, and many psychologists are being developed. I wondered if a minister would have thought to expand it so that the number could reach more professions, I mention, e.g. Social worker. I think it's important to look at that point in particular.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u5	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. If I try to respond to her questions or comments, it is first regarding the growing number of health - care professions that say that my and the Ministry's emphasis on adding more classes than mental - health professionals to form social advisers, as we do. In fact, a member of Congress has already discussed the matter. Regarding negotiations with specialists, they negotiate, and it is my goal to reach the bottom and point of that agreement. Hv. A senator was concerned about the construction of nurses, but as noted in my background, we are adding significantly to the plan that expected 790 new spaces. We're increasing another 133. Because of it. A member of the Parliament is particularly concerned that the Land Hospital is on Ring Way and Building, so we also increase considerably during the period of health management. That is correct. It is expensive to build a new hospital, and we want to do so well. I also want to keep in mind that a new university hospital on Ring Road is the national hospital. It is the mother's hospital for medical care, and according to health conferences and financial chapters, the National Hospital has a specialised hospital that serves all the people of the country, just as the Akureyri Hospital does in part. In view of the emphasis we put into the financial program plans to improve the facilities in Akureyri. There, the most important service is being done, both to support local health institutions and also to care for the third degree of service in both the north and the east.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u6	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Ministers are eager for this fine answer, and many factors were involved. I am happy to see more professionals than psychologists, since my eyes have been exposed to the fact that we should not emphasize one class above another when more classes can give us the same good treatment, especially helpful treatments. I am very happy to hear that there is an increase in the house - to - house service in Akureyri. I still want to point out two roles like other hospitals, but he is also a so - called local hospital to care for the 200,000 people who live here. I find it hard to realize how all of this is supposed to fit on the same spot different from that of the other guy, if I can explain it like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u7	A respectable president. Not only is this an enormously large building project but it is probably the most complex building project in Iceland's history regarding technical exports. It's not just a box. It needs high-tech health services, research and health-class education, etc. This is shown in speculations. This too is a regional hospital in the southwest corner, and it is indeed with the adjacent institutions both in Acdéri, in the South, and in the South. But it's important, and it's in health policy, that we clearly identify who does what in the system. Where do we have health care? Where do we have second - degree service, and where do we have a Phase 3 service, which is the specialized hospitals? I have faith that by explaining this better and making the distinction clearer, we will get over the point of having double - pained in one place and overly waiting for normal service in another place.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u8	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The health minister is very much needed. In many ways, I think it's the rock of the seas of this government, and I agree with it on many things. It's, for example. she may be able to commend her for her advanced medical policies. By then, she has preached a grand campaign in the construction of new nurses, over 900 during the period. I don't see that they're completely expensive. They used to talk a lot about buildings here. It is one thing to talk about a house and another business. That's the price, e.g. Hospital building approximately the same as hospital management for two years. You see, there is a lot of money missing in nursing homes. Even now, probably 3 billion each year is missing into the network, not being counted as new expense teams, such as burdensome items as new personal protection laws, equal pay contracts, and no doubt some more. Since farms carry about one third of this business, they have to take $1 billion. From every year, out of the treasures that are set out for the service of other people, to make up for this place. This can hardly be considered acceptable. There's no frame deal, and people just haven't talked to each other for almost a year. So the question is: Does Ministers believe that there will be some way to strengthen this foundation, or is it because there must be a new agreement that assumes a loss of service to all of our blessed old people?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u9	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. First, I want to dwell on a remark. A senator's concern is that long - term medical services are not just about building houses. I couldn't agree with that. We must be careful not to stop there. On page 18. The 365 in this fine piece of paper we're here for is presented by President's permission - I don't even need to ask a president to express myself about it - that it not only needs to be considered on the building on the Ringway but it's also discussed that there will be an earlier calculation that needs to be considered for the use of housing and a waiting economy that will result from the structure, as it was spoken of in its time. That's what we need to reevaluate. In addition, we also need to examine older buildings. Then I'm not just talking about those who are on the Circle Hall, but those who are somewhere else. All of this has to do with the vision of the future of the university hospital and the Hospital. In addition, of course, we need to discuss the price on the property. For this reason, a special field of discussion has been established to cover the matter, that we are not just talking about the building. But I especially want to spend time with them. A senator spoke of nursing documents. Actually, we discussed this same thing a year ago, if I recall correctly. That's the right thing to say. In the process of medical care, a senator saw that operating privileges do not really fulfill the buildings in which they live. But that's not until 2023, and I expect we'll have room to secure the job clearance in time. I'm concerned that if you don't get a deal with the nurses' manager. I have personally had meetings with them, and I hope that I can at least send a positive hunch into them discussions. [[The president calls.]] But they're in charge.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u10	Mr. President. On behalf of what? Thank you very much for Árnadóttir Colbek's sister. Ministers are eager to spend most of their time answering questions, not mine. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I agree that there is an enormous amount of budget for the new building. I think it's going to appear at the Land Hospital, right? Because in such complex buildings, there can be a lot of practicality. I think it's right from the highest level. Ministers that it can also appear in the management of new nursing homes. But I'd like to remind you that there's a lot of money missing into this ground so we can settle that. The first step was the Ministerhood of Kristján, Þór of Júlíusson, when he added 1.5 billion to the frame deal, which is much more. But finally, the highest. Minister. Now she says that it is important to think about the health of the elderly. We've got a lot of work to do in home nursing. There's also a lot of money out there. [[The president calls.]] We'll see them soon?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u11	A respectable president. I'm going to try to concentrate on that question. A senator this time. All of these are the same health - care systems. With regard to the frame deal, there was a meeting about him this week, so something is moving. I hope that's good. Hv. A senator speaks of health issues and asks if it is not proper to discuss domestic care as well. Yes, it is very important. We Icelanders are far behind our neighbors in terms of how much money we contribute to home nursing. We need to find ways to support the longer living in their home, the support, the health benefits, and the services at home that are needed rather than just focusing on this most expensive means of nursing. The most expensive measures are natural emergency clinics, which are even more expensive for every 24 hours. This is part of my overall vision, and it is my focus this year; health care to older people in a wide sense.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u12	Honorable President and Supreme Court. Minister. I want to start by thanking you for coming here, well designed, to meet us and answer our queries. I'd like to ask in and study a little bit. In 2010, contributions to the Western Institute for Health and Health were reduced by 30% following discontinuation of a regular operating room service and a 24-hour operating room operation. Then a week's surgery, one week, once a month, and then anesthetically. A report by the National Reexamination concluded that a longer period of action by means of a medical flight was followed by a transfer of medical equipment from the Western Islands to Akureyri, where 24-hour operating room duty was available in the Western Islands hospital. No longer is 24 hours a day shift in the operating room, and the time of physical response is now lacking. It is extremely serious and must return to a 24-hour operating room, as it had been for decades. In this regard, I ask about the ideas of a helicopter to speed up emergency flights. The Joint Administrative Committee of the Agency and the Ministry concluded that C1 services should be at the AIDS observatory, which means birth service with access to operating room service 24 hours a day. That service, despite the unanimous outcome of this group, is not available. It included experts from the Land Hospital, the Western Institute for Health, and the Ministry of Health. There is now an island running D-service, without access to the operating room, and there is no 24-hour service for pregnant women, which is an unacceptable position. Last year, in the island of the United States, 203 children were born, if I remember correctly, I can't remember either. The number of hospital stability has decreased by six after the union, which is contrary to the promise that the Agency will be promoted. So I ask the highest. Ministers whether it is not clear that the Agency's activities in the island are out of harmony with what the Ministry and the Agency's National Committee jointly found out, whether the transport uncertainty of the island's environment and the risks of working in over 5,000 human society can have been a mistake in the setting of health issues presented here, and I wondered whether the Agency's partnership with HSU. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u13	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator's inquiry and for keeping the watch for his district in conversations with me here on health matters. With regard to the last question, why? So, a senator who was a bit of a conclusion about his coverage here, I give him a clear no. It was not a mistake to start a health facility in South England. We see significant benefits from having stood up for these clinics throughout the country. The other, however, is clearly clear that there are early circumstances, and in some places it takes longer than it does in other places to get things right. There's a lot to look at. Hv. A senator here speaks specifically of the Western Islands. We must not take less precautions for health care than in others. That is why it is of utmost importance that safety and quality are in line with what is best for others. It is difficult to do so when the design is a challenge. It will always be difficult when the design is a challenge. Therefore, in the West, as in other parts of this land, we need to look more closely to improved medical transportation, or out - of - hospital services. A senator mentions ideas about a hospital helicopter that I have listened very carefully to and believes is something we should look at and maybe develop better - and the other is to develop and enhance much more attention here, so that a part of the medical service is so that it will be improved not only by distant health care and technical solutions but by some means, and especially by follow-up and similar means, by means of technical solutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u14	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for these excellent answers and let me be comfortable for a while, hoping we'll make it through. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I also wanted to ask the highest. Secretary of the Southnesian Institute of Health. For many years it has been said that it lacks contributions, that Southnes does not have the same interest and value in other parts of the country. We know this discussion. The last financial program made a special promise. I would like to ask: What message does this financial program send to the people of South Africa that our interests will be improved? We have not even had the opportunity to talk about the housing issues of this institution and how health care is provided. I wondered, " Would there be any reason to examine the care of South American health care through some change in the Bureau? ' I just wondered because the situation is unacceptable as it is today in the area.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u15	A respectable president. I'd like to add just what we were discussing here about the island situation and maybe in general regarding distant settlements: we must, of course, also stay in that equation. Because it will make a big difference in the ability to attend services into the capital area and thus be his family, possibly, when such. So it is also about improving access to health care, regardless of their residence. Hv. A senator also mentions the status of the Southnesian Institute of Health, where he has a new director who began a few weeks ago. I know that conversation very well. In a financial program, like what? A senator knows that it is not broken up in unique health institutions. So it is not seen in the numbers thereof; for they are the total number of the years. However, at the Ministry, we are very aware of what is going on in this way, leading to an unprecedented population growth and, in particular, the pressures of travel. I'd also like to mention that we're reevaluating the credit model for the medical community, and the Southnesians will probably benefit from it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u16	President. There is much work to be done in the field of health care. There is a medical policy now for the treatment of the council, starting with the construction of a new International Hospital. It is necessary to improve the damage caused by the health system during the period of the Independence Party. Yet, a vital part of ensuring the future health of the nation is a guarantee of a powerful predestination. A financial program shows that there is evidence of increasing loneliness among the elderly - which can lead to disease. I'm concerned about the circumstances of the elderly, but I wonder if we don't need to take a more progressive, more progressive social change. Loneliness not only affects the elderly but does so directly across the community. It adds to the seemingly new north stress, where families spend too much time working instead of caring for their families. Society's priorities are at odds with the view to promoting health and well - being. The financial programme also shows that there is an increased burden of disease due to chronic disease and risk factors for life-threatening diseases. The importance of coping with challenges in the prevention and improved and continuous services in the close environment is discussed in some detail about deaths caused by non-infectious diseases. But there is no record of how to deal with this trend or the growing loneliness of older generations - or the futility that younger generations experience in growing numbers. I think it's all connected, and I'd like to know if the Minister can see that too. One factor that could ensure more family activities, reduce stress, and reduce the burden of disease, and loneliness is abbreviated workweek. This is a case I know belongs at the Department of Social Affairs, but it will have a major impact on the health minister's case. Do ministers see the possibility of increasing quality of life that will shorten their work week and the benefits this may bring? What I'm really asking is, is there a minister who is looking at the problems in general and who is looking for the root of the problem rather than merely focusing on the manifestations or characteristics of the problem? And if so, what are the priorities of money? It's impossible for me to see the priorities on finance. [[The president calls.]] I just see a lot of things, but it's hard to see how the health minister has thought this whole thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u17	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator. It is true that when you see the financial agenda, you have a little problem and are going to try to see a policy out of the numbers. Then these texts help out as long as possible. A senator is here. What I'd like to say is that we're over there putting on certain projects that have considerable emphasis on prevention. We're talking, for example. ... abouta mental health team. We are talking about the health of visiting the elderly - who are then with money. We're talking about dealing with chronic illness by improving walking-attractive services, i.e. Try to move us back into the chain, closer to the first phase of service, and, of course, just to protect ourselves. It sounds like music to me to talk about widespread social change - but I'm not going to finish it by myself. On the other hand, I'm worried about what happened. A senator talks about it. Just values, stress, a long day of work. I agree with the senator that perhaps it would be the best precaution for us to shorten the workday and at the same time give more time to spend together, talk to each other, simply doing what we're doing while we're doing it, not being doing four things while, as we sometimes do wrong. The World Health Organization points to the health care of all countries involved in the United Nations to focus more on these chronic diseases, i.e. increasing the number of people who live with chronic illnesses for years and decades who are involved in work, in part, in all respects. I mention cancer, I mention diabetes, I mention more and more of the diseases that have become part of daily life. This needs to be accessed to improved health care and increased walking services, etc. [[The president calls.]] This emphasis is certainly found here in a financial program.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u18	President. Thank you very much. A health minister for the answers. But then I'll turn to everything else. The importance of ensuring the availability of all the people of the country to health care, regardless of their habitat and economy, is repeatedly mentioned in the financial programme. In this context, it is often accompanied by a form of telecommunication. A financial program will show that a minister considers the use of telecommunications in providing health care an important factor in increasing access to services, as it is seen to work on the management of long - term health care services has already begun. Sadly, one result of that work involves a measure of access. For example, the surgeon's strict instructions on the security of remote health services include unnecessary strict requirements for the identification of users of such services, as well as illogical transfers on all its implications. It is obvious that the current surgeon's requirements need to be reviewed, taking into account the failure of the next year's planned remote health services because of the poor implementation of the aforementioned factors. So I ask: A minister's opinion is appropriate for an important part of the future health system to be inaccessible to those who have, e.g. not interested in shopping for identity of a private partner? [[The president calls.]] Tells you the highest. Minister, do you need to revise this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u19	A respectable president. First thing. A senator mentions an equation of health care, regardless of the location, that there are a lot of projects going on in order to improve that. Yet, there have been some who have already been mentioned. Hv. A senator specifically asks about the safety requirements of the surgeon general. The importance of being very careful about what information is available and what information is not. I myself believe that information should normally be very much available, especially information on the surface of the government. However, it is of utmost importance that we have the right of the public to preserve our health information. There has been a way of making strict demands. The surgeon general has the law to look after these factors. I have not yet seen a reason to intervene in that assignment by a surgeon because I believe that this is a good procedure there. [[The president calls.]] But I hear why. A senator is saying. In fact, there have been others who have asked that question. I think it's an excellent part of a written query.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u20	A respectable president. We're here discussing a plagion proposal for a financial plan for the year 2020-2024 based on the government's financial policy since March. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson when he says he sees the light, and I think it will appear in the priority of the government, which highlights the number of projects that are believed to be most urgent in the construction of the various subsidies of society during the terms of the election. These include health care support with the goal of improving services regardless of the economy or the residence. An advanced financial strategy is expected to continue this course. It even appeared. to reduce the payment of hospitalised persons and to improve health care benefits and effectiveness. Budget plan allows 17 billion dollars. to this task in the period. It is still important to focus on promoting health care as the first stop in medical care, where health care would host a mental - health team. This ensures global health care services. At the services of a health committee, there is a recommendation for health policy for the next 10 years. It ensures that the population of the country enjoys a safe and efficient health service in which all the people of the country are insured. In this regard, it would be good to hear from the highest level. A health minister whether she considers her contribution to a financial program supports health policy and her goals. In the case of health policy, the human needs of the health system are expressed. Caring for health care will remain one of the greatest challenges in the topic field, and this applies to all parts of the country. Health agencies away from the capital area have had difficulty getting medical personnel to work, and it is necessary to seek advice to reverse this trend. That's why I'd like to ask the highest question. Healthcare minister how she intends to handle the financial program, whether there is a need to promote education by health care professionals, or to increase funding in order to even increase her involvement in contractors'expenses, or to increase payment in health care.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u21	A respectable president. First of all, financial programs support health policy. Yes, I believe it is. However, it is a challenge that we are now dealing with at the Ministry and will do so with our institutions, to put financial programs together, and a five - year schedule on the basis of health policy. Because in health policy, we are not only talking about projects that reflect priorities and projects that are not necessarily there - and vice versa. We need to play this together. I think it's very important, and it's been my goal, to introduce a five-year plan to the Council to inform the General. It is not legal for a health minister to do so. But we're talking about 30% of the government's expenses, and I think it's only natural for the Minister to account for his priorities and to-dos in a report to the council every year. It's part of a detour. A health committee at a meeting resolution on health policy to suggest this, and it would be of great value if the council were to decide that this would be the case with the future. Hv. A senator specifically asks about the design. That is correct, for it is evident in financial programs, as is part of the focus of health policy. I'm sorry, but they're not really single in Iceland and they're just our jobs. But some of it is about what it is like. A senator speaks of an education that is both increasing and improving access to education and living with those who work in our health care and an exciting environment. Hv. A senator also asked about contractors. It is a challenge to play together, on the other hand, with tenacious employees and those who do construction work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u22	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. The major challenge of health care is the plan for a substantial increase in nursing facilities, with new nurses growing and improved access to some 790 compartments, of which some 550 new nurses. To obtain a waiting period for nurses to reach 90 days in 2024. Such goals are somewhat elevated, and the question is, How can we achieve them? The population is growing older, and the population of people growing at an advanced age. It is important that the part of the group that needs help to preserve its survival and support its extended home independent dwelling. There are a number of factors: rehabilitation and the prophylaxis of public health and prevention. This is important in all ages, and especially in support of the elderly to stay at home and even at the workplace, as well as in promoting people to independent living for as long as possible. But counts at the highest. Ministers for financial programmes provide sufficient support to the public health goals of the present government?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u23	A respectable president. Yeah, I think so. I believe that in this financial program, we will demonstrate considerable emphasis on the preemptive factor, especially on the older ones'issues. We are designed to have some 100 million earmarks for such health - care visits, which is an increasing emphasis on the possibility of elderly living at home, and may receive the needed support, even by the means of health care. That's a completely new thought. It is new to be financed in this way. I make what I told you earlier that we cannot continue with the vision that there is a need for a longer - term service to the elderly. That system will totally eat up inside. We must also respond to the increased will of older ones in order to have flexible and varied options to choose.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u24	Madam President. It is quite complicated to have reasonable discussions over a short period of time on this matter, especially where, like the highest. Minister came in earlier, it's a little hard to find out what the numbers tell you. These are indexing numbers, much less are listed than in budgets, so you're a little reading between the lines, and then in what's said between them too. First, I want to focus on what is said, and shown, on the will of a minister to improve the access of patients to expert services. Then, according to a section on Hospital Services, major changes are involved, apart from the New Land Hospital Building, in promoting special attention - care services through walking - care services and the number of staff - and are likely to apply to the two major hospitals, but there is no particular reference to promoting expenses in public hospitals, which are the services of health institutions in the country primarily available. There's nothing to discuss raising there. Then, in the next section, the extracurricular funding section is also not referred to as an increase in medical expenses in medical institutions. If, according to this, more funding is to be put in access to specialists at the Akureyri National Hospital and Hospital and then to increase access to hospitals and other clinics without discussing extra financial resources, it is reasonable to conclude that some form of deduction should occur that will not be seen in the schedule. Then we have the reality that independent experts have been out of agreement for some time now. So I'm asking about the context there. Is the aim or aim to achieve them the objective of increasing the specialist services in the Member States, where extra funds are not being inserted by latering, i.e. minimizing the services of independent doctors? Is that why we haven't completed a contract with them? [[The president calls.]] Is this expansion from private activity to state - service hospitals in the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u25	A respectable president. The answer is: It's not thinking at all. So, at the Ministry, we had a meeting with doctors at the National Institutes of Health and Doctors, who work largely on a contract with Iceland's Health Insurance on Public access through the scattered markets of expert physicians. This was based on the analysis that had then been carried out in the Ministry, which was about to paint a picture of which branches are available in each area. There are considerable differences in specifications available to each area. And as health authorities, we wanted to ask ourselves, " What special things do we feel should all be able to enjoy in some area? ' We can list that there should be eye doctors, throat, nose and ear doctors, pediatrics, etc. There may be some specific reports of the 32 who are currently in negotiations with Iceland's Medical Insurance. The bioavailability is independent of which it is next, whether it is up to the relevant specialist in the relevant medical facility in the relevant county, whether it is made by special contract with the National Hospital or Hospital in Akureyri, or whether it is part of a contract with a health firm that makes up for Iceland's Medical Insurance, that the contract should include it. It is part of my contract goal with specialists that this subject is beneath, i.e. that the person is not entirely in his own jurisdiction but, in effect, we need to be careful about this epithelium, so that we can ensure equal access to special functions, regardless of their habitat.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u26	President. Thank you very much. Ministers very much for the answer and interesting will have to observe this, and I really hope that we can get together with these agents. This is a very important service and an important puzzle in all this enormous movie as the highest. Minister has his mind. I'd like to talk about equal access. The opening section on health care will refer to a panel's decision on health policy as a health committee is now being discussed. I would like to ask about the future view of a health minister mentioned in the section "Skillful Service Meeting, " and in some way, by permission of the president: ▪ If priorities are necessary, patients with the greatest need and worst standard of living will be placed in place. I'm asking a minister what is the worst standard of living? Is it a challenge for them to take first place in the future view of the health minister? Is it, then, concomitantly being concerned about systems in which those with the best standard of living are going somewhere else? How does this vision harmonize, if it is read right with me, with a law that covers equal access, regardless of the economy? [[The president calls.]] And if I'm reading the wrong thing, I'm going to point out that I'm not alone, but I've got this explanation from the staff. Ministers, it certainly means the priority of the earners.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u27	A respectable president. It is naturally well - known in itself, especially when talking about payment systems and credit companies, that vulnerable groups are free of charge in systems. We are, for example. change it now, i.e. At the end of the New Year's season, pensioners don't pay on health care, which means that we're supporting the access of more vulnerable groups to health care, regardless of the economy. On the other hand, the problem is the right thing to do. A senator means that those who are more wealthy, those who work, those who are younger, or what they are, will pay. We now have a system... [[Set up the priority for the service, not the payment system.]] Yeah, but that's the way I get it. This is actually about how we direct access to health care, possibly by means of credit systems. There's also one thing we have to do, a respectable president, and there's something we haven't done in Iceland, and there's a wide range of work on values and priorities. [[The president calls.]] We know that the health system is always so that it can, in fact, make more money.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u28	A respectable president. I come here one more time and talk about my heart, which is the place of the U.N. and the hospital of Vogs. I don't think there's a lot of lights on at the minister's. But in this group of subjects, I have at times felt that all lights are on and none is at home. I had high expectations. I know it's the highest. A minister is a perfectly selective and hardworking minister of what he or she does. But it pains me to have to come here repeatedly and ask about the same thing, knowing that we're looking at such a great wallet. A week ago, we were watching TV on Kleenex. We learned that 34 youths back then took their lives, two youths with ten days apart in a Land Hospital ◯ University hospital. We know there are 600 people on the waiting list for admission to the Gug. We know that the amount of contributions to Vigs today has dropped by 6% or about 40 billion. K. We know that they are reducing their admissions by 400 per year, from 2,200 to 1,800. I think the situation is very serious. Although we had actually been able to contribute more than 150 million. K. I thought we were all agreed. Now I'm asking and pointing to the ultimate. A health minister speaks of proper service at the right place: Counting the highest. Health Minister that we have a better access, better service, care, knowledge, and experience somewhere than in the hospital of Vogi to receive very sick addicts and alcoholics in this country?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u29	A respectable president. As we have previously seen in the exchange of words, why? The senator is so that the 150 million were killed. The legislature board proposed to the General Assembly to finance the budget. The last time, the earmarked in two ways. On one hand, a special service, a hiker service. On the other hand, a certain service employer, who was an AU. This is what a budget says, and the General agrees. This is what I have from the General Assembly when I'm asking Iceland's Medical Insurance to do a deal - about what? AUBE for hierarchical services, both in Akureyri and in Reykjavík. Then we have to keep it up that the walking district service in Akureyri has not been funded so far by public funds except by the town of Akureyri -- but otherwise through the SEC. That's the way it has been. So it is for the first time now, a respectable president, whom the General of the Council clearly recognizes, and approves of funding here, that it is important to perform walking walks with those who suffer from alcoholism or other addictions. What change, then, are we talking about? We're talking about the General Assembly agreeing with the health authorities and the best - known authorities about the need for a variety of resources for this diverse group. This is not to say that a specific resource is suitable for all, one set and expensive measures. Hv. A senator also talks about suicide. Suicide prevention is focused on the land surgeon's office, and this has been particularly brief. There we have an excellent work for those who know best about the sensitive language class. I'll get to the details of my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u30	A respectable president. I miss not having received the ultimate answer. A health minister I thank for the answer to the question of whether she feels that there is a better service to be received elsewhere than in the hospital of Vogi, about emergency care for addicts and alcoholics. We'll be talking about these 150 million people, talking about walking services and about the SÁA budget - it was around 2014, I'm told that they didn't get any contracts with Iceland's Medical Insurance on this parade service. But the question is, and I would also like to get the answer to the question I posed earlier: Who uses the walking service? Are they not mainly those who have had their usual medical care first? In 98% of cases, this is exactly theirs. It is not customary to have a walk-in before detoxification. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u31	A respectable president. There is now a lot of time for any service people are attending in walking departments. First thing. One senator asks if anyone is better qualified to provide the services that the UN has been providing them is the knowledge and experience that the UN has built up and collected in recent decades absolutely invaluable. There's no doubt in my mind about that. And the importance of continuing to build on the great knowledge there is. On the other hand, I have decided, because the U.S.A. truly prayed about caring for children and young ones under 18 years of age, moving the service to the vulnerable group from the SÁI to the Land Hospital, which helps to unite in the service of the children, through the interaction of addiction and mental care. I am convinced that the medical staff at the Land Hospital is doing so well.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u32	V.E.G. President. V.E.G. The medical minister discussed a national fund that rhymes with what I saw on page 106, with permission of presidents: With the development of increased interest rates from land inactivation, nurses who already have a plan to build more than 130 new nursing facilities will be added. I'd like to step this out for a minute. I thought money was meant to go to the so - called national fund and do business there. Am I wrong? The document continues further, with the permission of the president: With the arrival of National Fund, there will be additions to nursing facilities already planned for a total of some 920. The amount of money to go to the national fund in that space seems to have been set aside. I'm not necessarily hanging myself in a lot of space in myself. I'm thinking more about how the National Fund is going to work. I'd also like to take this opportunity and ask the highest possible question. As noted earlier, a minister is not going to secure funding for nursing homes. What I'm most concerned about is that the last time I knew was the money planned on budgets in December trapped by Iceland's Medical Insurance. That's a point I'd like to get the answer to. According to this, I would like to express my satisfaction with the emphasis on training and cross-cutting outside the institutions. It tells me that people's homes are also meant.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u33	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator still. I'd like to mention, because we were once in a verbal exchange of individual health - care classes and are also talking about homework and home - care services, it is of course important that physical therapists be part of the more potent front point of health care. Hv. A senator specifically asks about a national fund. According to a bill, it is a good point. The Economic and Business Committee is now expected to be a financial fund, as it were. However, the provisional principle deals with two things that we could talk about as a set generation account, i.e. One is to build a room for the older generation and the other to set financial support for the future. This is specifically discussed in the government budget and, in fact, in the government covenant. That is where it is, but it is clearly defined, defined, and divided, as it were. Hv. A senator mentions an additional 130 spaces, and that is correct. That's right, 133 more space, and we're talking about how the process is drawn up now that there are 500 new million in the next year for building up and then rising to 2 billion, and a total of 6 billion that come from that new channel. Hv. A senator also asks about nurses'business. I'll share my concerns with him. A senator says that treaties have not been resolved. It is different from the other, as discerning readers of a financial program see, that the full - time management of nursing is not expected, i.e. the addition, when it comes to 2023 in the program. I think it's the monopoly at what. The budget needs, at least, a financial committee. mention it in a committee party. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u34	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answers. I'm glad to hear that we are discussing a multidisciplinary approach and that we are in the homes of people with prevention of mind and heart. But to the national treasure. I haven't read the entire financial program through yet, but part of it and what I'm trying to figure out is whether a national fund is already meant to trust the foundations of the country. How much money has been set aside, beyond what we gave ourselves to talk before in the medical section of a national fund?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u35	A respectable president. Of the money fund funded by land reimbursement, we are talking about 6 billion in the season, starting with 500 million in 2020, and then it goes up to 2 billion in the third year and becomes an additional 6 billion that works for 130 compartments.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u36	Madam President. A major challenge to health care is to human health institutions. Much of the women's class is a health class. More than 98% of nurses and medical staff are women. In this country, nurses are overworked 16% of the total wage, while in the rest of the Northern countries, 0◯4%. Certain flights have characterized this class, and very demanding and heavy jobs are involved, and governments have to skim up sleeves and do better. We must make the work environment much better to ensure design within the health sector. Because of the nation's increasing life span. It has been observed that governments have been working hard to handle design. But then there's a financial plan. She does not speak directly to this work because the big women class, many of whom have been waiting long for justice, should, according to their plan, be raised only 3.9%, meaning an actual raise of 0.5% between 2019 and 2020. It is worth noting that these classes also have free contracts in the near future, but major reasons for those who have been educated in these sectors mention that they are involved in other jobs, are exactly low wages, are unacceptable work environments, and are too stressful. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister to these government plans for a 0.5% ordeal, whether they have fallen to keep people in these jobs or to encourage people to work in this sector. And in other respects, she is not concerned about her health care provider.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u37	A respectable president. Where it is. A senator asks about the composition of pay is true that in Iceland there is overtime and a shift pressure of abnormally high totals. The comparison is extremely adverse for Iceland, and this, of course, leads to a great deal of stress and stress. We are certainly not saving with this combination of pay in Iceland. I've written all the medical institutions in Iceland, and I've requested a response to certain proposals to improve the working environment of nurses in particular, and, in fact, a health care professional, must be examined, not only to the point of pay, although it is certainly the most important thing in the final analysis. I have to say, I wonder at a lawsuit established by the Conspiracy, which states that there is a conclusion in the collective agreements of the entire class, and then especially in the female class, and thus speaking down their expectations of reform in terms of freedom of contracts. It would be a strange approach to the state in a private discussion to label it into a financial program to determine the outcome of collective agreements. I expect the current strategy to be one of the factors involved. Of course, contracts are contracts in which both parties come to the table and do not finish the case until both sides agree with the results. That is true of these collective contracts, like others.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u38	Madam President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the counter, Minister, who is here today, has been called both the rock of the sea and the light of the darkness - some kind of light - rock them all. I feel that she cares about what it's about, but it's not about us in the Syndicate either. We are not the ones who speak up about collective agreements. Rather, we simply refer to what is presented in a financial programme and, above all, in the word. Secretary of finance, which only says, "If there's to be an increase of more than 0.5%, we need to cut down somewhere else. " It's time to go to the top. As a result, we draw these conclusions from the words of those who have spoken on behalf of the government on the basis of a financial agenda. But, unfortunately, time is running out, and I don't have time for the next question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u39	A respectable president. To continue this discussion, there is now a informal consultation, which is extremely important in my opinion, between the Ministry and the head of the medical department, the nurses' society, and the midwives. We feel very important that there is a conversation going on at all levels, especially when there's a bargain deal going on. They're rejections. Business has ended. We're in the middle of something right now. I can say it right here, and I can say it anywhere in Iceland that I think it's a long time that we face up to how unhealthy it is to have a sex-change labour market, which is so prominent in Iceland, and besides completely obvious gender in pay, which we must begin to recognize is that it's time to correct.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u40	Madam President. On page 374 of the budget, there is an overview of raced data on health care, with various health risks described, including due to an increased incidence of male risk behaviours compared to female patients, e.g. When it comes to smoking, drinking, and a greater lack of ability to seek help in times of distress, especially spiritually. I'm glad that the surgeon general intends to investigate these factors further, and I think it's a worthwhile assignment. However, these comments help me to see what I feel is lacking in the plan, and that is a clear priority for those at high risk, now or among the most vulnerable groups, especially for mental - health services. Here I am especially calling for priorities in behalf of mental - health services and the overall health care of prisoners, but as at the highest level. Ministers know and we've talked about freedom-specting individuals in huge danger, and they need my knowledge of a much greater service than I know there is to provide. These 10% positions of psychologists - I think there's a lot more to do when it comes to this group. It's been late too long. So we also talk only about another group, all larger, our young people, especially high school students who have insisted on getting psychologists in high school, I remember. The open and sincere letter of Gunnhildur Fríða Hallgrímsdóttir, formaður samband the íslenskur high framhaldsskólanemi Union, to Alfreðsdóttir Alffreddóttir, U.S.A. A minister of education, where she urged her to work closely with the highest authorities. A health minister to set this up. These are the financial issues that I see very closely in the budget. However, they do not find their place in goals and actions. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: What are the goals, and what are the measures to expand the ministry for these vulnerable and risky groups?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u41	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's questions are of utmost importance. We share our concerns and interests with these most vulnerable groups. Hv. A senator mentioned a 10% employment rate. I have not yet had time to report to the council how health care will be properly prepared for prisoners, in my opinion. But we view the endpoint as the end point - and I want to see that we get there within a year - that medical care is given everywhere in prisons and that medical professionals there are referred to them as special health professionals. It's a mental team set up by a mental - health professional, a mental - health professional, and a mental - health professional. This team poses an individual treatment plan for each person. Some people need interviews. Some need many, some need fewer. Some people need medication, etc. It is of utmost importance if a prisoner is to be receptive to correction, that the person has adequate health care. And like everyone else, prisoners have the right to adequate health care. It's a model that we'll see first on Hólmshök and then in all the other jails as the project goes forward. I spent the days setting up contract goals in this regard, so it's going to be okay with an agent and the torture board. Hv. A senator also asks about high school students, and it is true that I and the highest. The Minister of Education has also been discussing this matter. There are very different expectations after college, and very different places, even after high schools. In some places, there are psychologists, nurses who are caring for these things, and in some places we need to be better acquainted with and better able to open up health care options and become familiar with the fact that there are psychologists who are taking part of the job and who are able to care for it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u42	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the opposite, and perhaps in my second speech, I'd like to bring a little of this mixed in a bag. First, when it comes to prisoners, it is a pleasure to know that there is a complete approach to this. I also know that the prison authorities have stressed that the institutions that care for this have enough funds and do not view it as some left size that may somehow be neglected, without necessarily some intent behind it. But this is a natural challenge and is difficult to deal with. If there is not enough money behind it, there is certain danger that it will sink into the sand. So I just want to ask, because I'm not in the surgery: Is it safe to assume that there's enough money to just cover this? Now I've got 15 seconds left, so I'm just gonna shoot at one of the leaves right here at the end, and it's about death aid and palliative treatment. It's been shown that this is a case that I and the highest. The president is interested in and has to focus on allowing the death aid. However, it is also important to establish a universal policy on palliative treatment. [[The president calls.]] It's something that's been said about missing, and I'm wondering if it's true.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u43	President. First, to make sure that funding is specifically marked for this group. Yes, it is. This year - and I know why. A senator has observed this - was set aside at a special press conference for mental health throughout the country. In fact, this pot was kept out of 30 million for the special health care of prisoners and an additional 25 million ears are marked for the South American Institute of Health, who has been involved in the mini-Urge but has not been able to hire a psychiatrist for that job. So we're talking about 55 million that are still there and they're still there. We're talking about this as a contract between health insurance and health care institutions, so we're getting it ready for what to do. That's totally in the way. Hv. A senator asks for a life-alone treatment and only a case that takes longer than six seconds to discuss. But with regard to palliative treatment and discontinuation therapy in general, or in particular life-like treatment, we have a good policy document for the North and East as well as for the West, and we need to put together a comparable vision, a vision for the South and West. [[The president calls.]] It's in the water.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u44	Madam President. Only because of the priority talk earlier. I'd like to say that there is a social reconciliation that makes payment and that delicate groups are selected there. However, from time to time, it can be interpreted as using the term "recognizable service purchase' to the payoff. According to these words, it is to be said that if the service is not bought enough, it needs to be prioritised, and according to this principle, it should be prioritised according to income. It simply violates the law of universal access, regardless of the economy. There's nothing better to break in the middle of the day than in the crowd. It's just as confusingly illegal. But there was something else I wanted to talk about. I was going to establish the status of health science, linking it with innovation and education, which are the highest priority. Secretary of health. Based on statistics, the National Hospital is going down on research and receives less than any other university hospital in the North. I refer to an overview of scientific research published by the hospital during the past 15 years, including the U.S.A. reports that the hospital is on the increase in the cooperation force that provides data, not the leading person. The research results of the Land Hospital are now less focused than they were ten years ago, and there is evidence that the road is down. This is a trend that is not consistent with what is going on at university hospitals e.g. in the North, which we would like to compare ourselves with. In view of the fact that it is, I think, well accepted that the quality of scientific work and the subsequent clinical services are involved, I would like to have a vision of a minister at it, ask him to interpret for me the financial programme here. What is being done to promote the scientific work of Lands Hospital ▪ University Hospital?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u45	A respectable president. First, I'd like to say what about the tip. A senator's priorities are set in order that I have had time to look at this a little more carefully since we spoke here and I believe that the wording, as it is in the Scriptures, is unfortunate, and that it needs to be changed. What I mean is, it's about sensitive groups and payment parties. So there's nothing to it. Hv. A senator asks about scientific work and how to make sure that we see more scientific activity in a land hospital. That's a very special concern, like a whisk. A senator points out that the National Hospital has been losing its flight, so to speak, during the past few years in this regard. More important, because of a university hospital, not only a hospital in education, but also the matter of being competitive at a university hospital in the lands around us about the best possible workers and scientists. As to this, I'd like to say that within the Ministry, there's been a working group on scientific policy. This includes those people who have had the most road and problem of these matters, both in land hospitals, the university community, and so on. I wait for these groups to offer suggestions on what factors are needed there. I've also wondered about the general status of health science - and then I'm talking about access to competitive funds, etc. - when discussing the greatest challenges in the immediate future to moral opinions and major progressive steps in science and technology and may require completely new questions and new issues in health science. If so, we need to be well equipped with the work of science. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u46	Madam President. I thank the Minister for his good answers, and I insist that it is extremely important, and I hope that it is so that within this financial program, the candidate is cut so that a minister has room to make things better. I also want to be rights, though I have spoken about the Land Hospital earlier, that now health care is flying, considering what has been before. It is very important that there is also room for research because innovation is just as important at that end, in all types of services, and so on. I'd like to use the last half minute to talk about the economic situation in general. Today, Arion's new projections are coming from this morning that predict the 15 to2% reduction in land production. In November, they foretold an increase of 1%. So there's a change. This, too, is considerably down the road of about 3% and miles from the Room's project since February. So there's clearly a glow in the sky. It's at the top. Minister of the legal profession, who takes in much of the state's fees. It is not unusual to expect that some kind of reaction to the economic situation will be made to this category. That knows the best. Minister as well as me. [[The president calls.]] Then I ask: " Although the financial plan is -- and we've repeatedly pointed it out - pretty optimistic, I don't believe that it's just my plan B. I'm asking the highest level. Minister on Plan B, and even less so on the National Fund that's supposed to finance these nursing facilities.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u47	A respectable president. That fact was naturally discussed here yesterday in a very small way. The secretary of finance is the only basis we can establish, in any case, at any time, that is the current Habitat standard. Then we can start wondering about it here in the conference hall that there are some colours in the air, etc. Like what? A senator will surely see that the minister of health at any given time has a set of priorities. The priority is number one for health care. Number two is the priority for the service to be the most important thing, i.e. A service that is available to all. Then we are primarily talking about the third level of our service and health care, which, of course, are the factors that serve all of us at all times, regardless of the economic situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u48	A respectable president. We're talking about a budget for the next year. Regarding health matters, it says: "It is a long wait for a mental - health professional, such as the services of the KuGL. I'm very worried that there's still a long waiting list of pediatrics. We must make sure that such cures are not available because they will enter the future. Then there is another concern about financial plans, i.e. that it does not seem that a large group of health - care professionals are now retirement - nurses and doctors - and that is when the need for nurses is severe. So I would like to ask a health minister how she will handle these matters. Then, it is highly ambitious that 90 days is now maximum waiting for action, replacement operations, and other activities, and it seems that it is not working well enough to shorten that waiting list. There is no indication of the high costs of hospital living abroad for these waiting lists or future plans. I'd love to hear about it. Also with regard to the cost of medicine. It's where my concern is that there is still so much medical cost for cancer patients. I'd like to ask you what solution a minister will make in the future and if there's anything good there on the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u49	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his questions. First, when it comes to waiting for a mental - health service for children and young people: It makes me feel very important - I don't know if it's going well enough - that if we take care of the health system in three steps, i.e. The first step or the first line is health care, the number two are experts, independent or a group, or possibly health institutions, and the third line or third stage service is a high-tech hospital, whether it is the Landspian or the Hospital in Akureyri, this step has been primarily, and sometimes only physical health. Now we're changing the health system. It's a system modification. We are changing our health system, so we are now ensuring that a study of mental health is being carried out in the same way as a study on physical health at the first stage of the service, i.e. in the health care department itself. When that service fails, you can refer to the mental teams that by the end of this year, all over the country. And when we get back from there and are still in trouble, special hospitals - both young and young - are still in trouble - for people who are now 18 years old. As soon as we have a mental health - care system at all levels and we start thinking about prevention of mental health in real life, so we're starting to think about the real quality of life with abbreviated week of work and reevaluating the quality of life, etc., we're also talking about having a more favorable environment to make others feel better. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I hope I answer the other questions in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u50	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I'm gonna ask you one question or more of this. This is the first stop to be a health care station, which is a month's waiting to find out when the deadline is scheduled. When people finally receive a text message, a reminder of time, they just don't really remember what they were going to talk about with their doctor, or it's just too late to use their time. I was surprised to learn that there is no mention of health. The financial agenda. Because it's just a brilliant device. Would it not be possible to place money in the introduction and advertising and to teach people how to use it? As I say, after I started using the website, I have a feeling I have a family doctor on the phone and I can reach out to him within 24 hours. That would be very good. But then I'm hoping a minister can answer any of the other questions too.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u51	A respectable president. First, the access to the health care facility. Indeed, it is still so that a long wait is made for a certain doctor, if the person wants to see a certain doctor. However, we have shifts and in some places, so there are open times when people come in from the street and can get time from a doctor without having to check in. Today, nurses are often at home where the words become reality. Phone classes with nurses, who can then fit in at certain times that are always free for nurses, have also become a reality in many places. This bioavailability has therefore improved very much. And what is so important that health care is now without a pensioner's fee, which means that now, for the first time, pensioners can not only have time with a nurse or a doctor but also find out more medical professions in order to obtain their release. I agree with what. A senator with regard to the website health care.is I hope it's discussed somewhere in the financial program, and I think it must be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u52	A respectable president. I explain the next five years financial program in terms of the four sectors that I hear as travel, industrial and innovation ministers, i.e. Research, innovation and knowledge sectors, tourism, energy, market monitoring and consumers. It may be said that all these areas of the matter are being further developed in a direct or indirect way. Not only do I look at the financial side but I also look at policy, goals, and measures presented here. A forward vision of sustainable employment is provided in tourism, which is balanced in economic, environmental, and social terms. The three main objectives of sustainable development are the three main objectives. The preparation for long-term travel policies is being carried out by a major project evaluating environmental pressures, infrastructure and tourism society, and by means of guidance for tourism to the year 2030. Other focus on tasks and measures includes setting the priority frame for collection, analysis and implementation of data, supporting national market and development, detecting the endurance of nature, society and economy, improving the rules of short-term rents, improving the monitoring of permit activities, reviewing ways of remuneration, defined and building up modeling sites and competing evaluations of transport regulations. In 2018, tourism funds increased a great deal, and this increase is expected to stay largely, except for the contribution to flying development funds, which were temporary. However, donations may continue to be applied, but their contributions will be transferred from year to year if the funds are not available. That's been the case so far. Not everyone has left the fund, so just because the temporary contribution is no longer in the budget, the funds remain sufficient. It should be noted that transport budgets will be greatly increased, particularly in the distribution of tourists through the country, as well as the national development programmes for the protection of nature and cultural memory under the environment secretaryship are further strengthened. The article has recently taken on black employment. It has the highest focus on homemaking, which has resulted in significant success in registrations, as well as its indirect influence on housing support. This assignment will continue. In energy, we provide a vision for the future that Iceland is leading to the development and use of renewable energy on the basis of knowledge, professionality and our speciality with energy resources. The primary objective is an increased competitiveity of energy markets on the basis of economic, environmental and social equilibrium. Special emphasis is placed on the interaction between cohesion and energy, on ensuring national energy delivery security and the equation of energy costs. The most important project of the environment is the development of long-term energy policy for Iceland, the continuation of energy exchanges, both in seas and in countries, the initiative for electricity expansion, and the balance of energy costs between rural and urban areas. There are no significant changes in expenses for the seminary, but there will be priorities within the group of subjects for many projects. These include job initiatives to speed up the development of electricity, the simple license process of action, and a special review of the regulations of wind power. In the 7th matter, I have issues that depend on me, my innovations, my competitions, my fields of knowledge. This presents the future view for the whole language field that Iceland will be responsible for research and knowledge and for the aim of developing an international competitive environment for research and innovation. The metal category has received large amounts of contributions over the past few years, making the largest possible contributions to technological development funds and raising reimbursement for research and development projects. These two factors increased by 80% between 2015 and 2018. That certainly is a great increase, but we are going to do even better. In accordance with the Constitution, there will be reimbursement for research and development beginning in 2020. They are expected to become an investment fund with the role of investing in sceptres and innovations. During this five - year period, it is intended to significantly add, or about 10 billion, in the next five years. It is suggested that an investment fund in sceptres and innovation companies can, if possible, meet specific criteria, request an assembly from the government. The purpose of such the administration of the state is to promote the shape and development of early investment funds and to contribute to the increased participation of private investors in investments in innovations and sceptres. Our vision of the future at topic areas 16, market control, consumers and employment management, is about efficient economic activity and well - being on the basis of stability, active competition, transparency and good business practices. The main objective of the topic area is the global competitiveness of employment based on economic, environmental, and social equilibrium. It presents measures that promote efficient management and simple regulations and can be specifically considered in the case period of treatment by consumer committees and competitive appeal committees with the aim of shortening the period of treatment. [[The president calls.]] There will also continue to be a competitive evaluation, as mentioned earlier, in cooperation with OECD, a recent project. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u53	V.E.G. President. The number of tourists in this country has increased dramatically in recent years. In 2018, some 2.3 million foreign tourists arrived in the country through the Cheflavík Airport, an increase of 5.5% from the previous year. Thus, the number of tourists has decreased from the previous years, but the annual number of tourists in 2010-2017 was about 24% between years. For the immediate future, Istavia's forecast shows that the increase in tourists continues to decrease. In terms of smaller increases, you may see that the number of passengers continues to increase and will increase to over 2.5 million people each year in the future. Even though the growth of tourism is slow, we are still talking about some increase in my opinion that is joyous and we need the government that we are having in the tourism business in good cooperation with people in general and wide territory around the country. The distribution of tourists across the country varies from country to country and from country to country. Similarly, tourist attractions vary according to national parts. I would like to quote the chapter on view of the future and the main objective of the president's permission: It is designed to shape the long - term vision of the environment, but it is clear that it will include a reference to sustainable tourism based on economic, environmental, and social equilibrium. The nature of Iceland's nature is one of the main criteria for the administration of tourism in the country, and therefore the impact of the work of the article on the environment, such as natural tolerance, needs to be considered. After this, I would like to ask the minister: Does the minister sees that the service at tourist attractions in the region will be added to the immediate future to counter the pressures of the southwest corner where the reception areas have begun to surface, so as not to be said?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u54	Madam President. The answer is: Yes, I can see that it is possible to meet that need. Not only do we have tourist attractions, but there are hundreds of millions of visitors. It is a competitive fund, so local communities can apply for strength to build up on all kinds of infrastructures. Then we have the national programme, which will be the head of the environment, which includes this twelve - year - long vision and a three - year plan at a time. We've put a lot of money in both the plan and the fund. As a general rule, I believe that we need to ensure that these areas also become sufficiently economic sustainable to assess the need for a specific structure and then have the possibility of paying, whether by tourists directly or by companies, to make money to build up, so that it is not restricted to budgets, e.g. A guest room at 300 million. K. or 600, but the areas themselves and the people in the fields will appreciate the need for any kind of wood, how much or what they will be, and will be able to get money to do it. Of course, it has to be within all normal limits, making decisions in a clear way so that it is perfectly clear what is being charged. As for the future, I generally believe that we should try to promote further distribution and lower central control in the development of tourism, whether that is true of individuals who want to do something or of rural areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u55	V.E.G. President. I thank the Minister for this answer, and I'm very pleased with that. I'm gonna cross over to the program agreed on the supply security of electronic energy last year, in a Senate resolution and ask if the plan is on, if it's on schedule, if there's any plans. And what can the minister tell us about the state of three phase electrical connections, but many areas have been left out in recent years and decades? All I've heard is that there's a cruise. Or are we going to see a country that way?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u56	Madam President. First with regard to the provisional security and the overall transport system: Fortunately, we were able to provide this synonym, and I am very happy that we have come to the point of having such a interpretation to the level and extent of our policy in those areas. We can see right away that it affects Landsnet's work ethic in priorities on projects and such. Southside line two, Cruces line three, Holasannd line three, a combination line three, and a scholarship on the south side of the West - these are all projectes that are on the ground and are major investments. So I'd say that's kind of a plan. Of course, we always have obstacles. In the case of fertilization, we are here focusing on a particular project. We've got a team at work that's due, I think, this week, where we're opening up new ways to get closer into this structure. I think it's political to try to do that. There may be some system changes. I'm very open to it because electricity cleaning has become like roads or fiber optics, it's just shallow structures that have to be left out of the country so that jobs can be built up and that people can live where they live. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u57	Madam President. You can and should give commendation for what you do well. I would like to welcome the extent to which the climate is established in an existing financial strategy, even though I would have personally wanted to go further to cope with the crisis that we really face. Of course, there is a positive aspect in the context of increasing funding for innovation and research, especially with emphasis on green solutions and in the context of the fact that it should contribute to the energy exchange at the rental site, which is a very exciting project. I'd like to hear a minister come in to see how she can support it. Madam President. One of the aces that Iceland and I have in the battle against greenhouse gas emissions is just our green energy. Chapter 15.1 reviews the serious state of energy security and national energy output security. Yet, I miss seeing a clear assignment that will lead to the relief of that situation. This must be a measure of frustration, for the fact that electricity production is spread throughout the country is far from being present at the same level when it comes to the construction of employment instruments. All too many of us cannot accept as little as 10 MW employment tools as a result of the serious power distribution system. There is also the amount of carbon dioxide that involves the loss of energy in the system. So I ask a minister: Why is there no greater emphasis on the construction of the distribution system in the financial program despite the fact that this is a government priority? And do ministers feel acceptable that they will be cutting down to the issue of energy over the next five years? Will a minister take advantage of the speed of the development of the electrical power system?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u58	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's questions. First of all, the energy supply of cars. It's a project we have on the table in cooperation with the Environment Ministry and, in fact, in cooperation with SAF. It has changed the amazing attitude of the traveling service in general, and especially that of rentals when it comes to opportunities for energy exchanges. Of course, it has to be on business grounds. That's what's been sitting in men, and I get it very well. But here, we are actually making a project to get the money working with the article, as well as with rural communities in general. We're making a project that we hopefully get to work first. I believe that in the years to come, we will see great changes in this world. Of course, this is also a great opportunity, including From the look of Iceland as a tourist attraction, here comes tourists who are even the first time tryin' to drive an electric truck, and hopefully it will have a good effect when they get back home. In order for this to happen, of course, the interior must be fine. That's what we've been doing for the past few years, and it needs to be done even more. People must be able to drive around the country, and so on, so all of this goes hand in hand. But I believe that together we'll make it a lot faster than when we're too much to work each other in one corner. With regard to the transport and distribution systems of electricity, I wholeheartedly agree with all the factors involved. A senator will come on, on the importance and need for improvement. An energy agency believes that about 50 MWs actually go to waste, there's waste in the system because it's not enough to move it around. But so far, it may be said that it was not the funding that had prevented the progress and slowed down, but much rather this therapy and lack of reconciliation when it comes to where the lines should always lie, they need to lie somewhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u59	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. In fact, it would have been nice to see projects in a financial program that are just about to simplify the routine or to facilitate the procedure. This is of utmost importance. I'd like to go to travel services only, but as shown in the plan, government action over the last few years have continued. and to distribute tourists throughout the country and throughout the country. As far as I know, the Ministry still has the policy to do so. It must be disappointing to conclude that the decision is not to continue with aeroplane development fund, such as the highest. A minister entered earlier, although there are truly some funds left in the fund. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if this is a sign of a change in government policy on the distribution of tourists through the country and whether it actually supports the establishment of aerospace fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u60	Madam President. First of all, the permit protocols and lawsuits. Page 298 has a special operation, which is a simple process of permit development and a special review of energy policy. This is in cooperation with the Environment Ministry and is part of the effort to further the process. As for the air development fund, there is no policy change. The fact that this was a temporary project does not mean that we have no money in the fund anymore and that we're done with it, but we just don't have the funds left out, unfortunately. It would have been good if more money had been picked up. Air development fund will continue. We bring money from year to year, and it's not on my mind that it will pass away and disappear. Rather, we will take action if we are so lucky that we will need more than the one we now expect.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u61	Madam President. I'm going to talk about the equation of house - to - house heating costs between rural and urban areas and asking for the highest. Ministers to see if financial programmes expect this variable cost to be made up of. House - to - house expenses are part of the household's operating expenses, and about 7.5% of the index price for consumer consumption is attributed to house warming costs and electricity. These costs are very variable in Iceland as we know each other. A small tenth of the country's population lives in areas where electrical heating or heating is used. On account of the tax pay, it can be assumed that rural population will have to work approximately A couple of weeks a year to swallow their house, but an apartment in a hot - irrigation area can escape in less than a week. This is not to say that rural income is lower than urban areas, but it has shown the Habitat's data. I understand it would cost a fortune over 700 million dollars. K. In addition to subsidizing electrical heating to house - to - house housing so that the cost of sex would be comparable to the average cost of the population with the lowest cost. I would like to know if this step should be taken to the full in the next four years. We know that laws were passed in 2015, where there was an equation fee on the dispersal hosts to increase funding into this subsidies of electricity transport. Yet, that funding has not been enough to level completely. Then there is the second factor about the equation of house warming costs. The cost is very variable and much different from the heat - control industry, and I don't talk about it in rural areas where electrical energy needs to be fueled.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u62	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's question. I agree with her. We're not doing enough good when it comes to this and you feel it and hear it everywhere you go abroad. Today, we provide only 53% of the eco-efficiency between urban and rural areas, but we have a goal of achieving much higher percentages. So we're about to get to the point where there are two ways that might be considered. Either double the current equation rate - in line with that as well. A senator mentioned that we did this in 2015 - so we left 0.3k. to 0.6 per kilogram hour, which results in less than 2 billion instead of 980 million. K. will be a provision to subsidize the fees, or to integrate and combine the distribution manifests in the country, regardless of the rural or urban budget. This job is in full practice at the Ministry in cooperation with the Power Institute and others. This is expected. In fact, we still have space for these two ways in a financial budget, and we have time to make it available. It is, of course, that it does not really land on the government budget. Rather, it is users who pay the higher price. But just as it takes the same thing to watch The Kingdom Television wherever you are - and the other factors we've actually recovered - they're very important to see that this situation is equal. Sometimes it's just a lot more inefficient, and it just often gets very little in a small area. This is a matter of priority in the Ministry, and we've got weeks to move and set a route. If we have one registration, it's actually a more honest and lasting way. It's just hopefully that we'll be able to get through it, and it also calls for conversation with other people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u63	Madam President. I'm glad I'm at the highest. A minister has an understanding of this matter and that work is being done to see how to fully balance this great difference, which is certainly there, and is a problem between many people in the areas where this is not anticipated to change in the coming years, that it is found to be hot water or something similar. When we went to evenly equal the network, major users were not included in that equation. It was only between the diffusers that were set for a certain price to cover this cost. I ask, " Wouldn't it be reasonable for big users to participate in this equation as well? ' It may not take a lot of money per kilogram of time to balance this difference in the distribution of electricity.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u64	Madam President. Before answering that question, I would like to mention, too, that there are 100 million expected. K. increase every year to meet the commitment required. We, e.g. For example, out on Snæfellsnes, because the number of tourists is so great, that the system as it is now does not work for that area. We expect this to be updated according to an increase in index prices over the years. Therefore, it is important from now on that the joint will notice factors that actually affect it, such as. The distribution of tourists. This is also an indication of the extent to which tourism is littered in many parts of the community. For big users, this applies to the customer management system. Large users are involved, not in business with the distribution system, but directly with the transport system. It's really just the systematic reason why it's the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u65	Madam President. In a financial program, it is accepted that the donations in Iceland are smaller than those in the neighboring countries and that it is also desirable to contribute to the strengthening of the foundation for investments in sceptres and innovation companies in Iceland. It is also known that the commercial investment level is far too small and the need to improve the environment in order to improve it. If there are measures and standards in the Icelandic case category of innovation, research and knowledge, there is little to see of measures taking place at the core of the problem that are at the expense of an institution and business in Iceland too high, that the financial system is also set up a little, so there are little incentives for venture capital investments. Of course, it is positive to hear of the 10 billion times. which is to be put in the wand investments and other things. However, this does not in itself help correct the existing marketing failure. The trade of funds and bond investors often goes up to 10% in Iceland. The debt's even up to 8%. However, economic growth is only 4.6% in the last 12 months and is expected to decrease according to economic growth forecast in financial planning. So in such situations, it is actually more valuable, considering the risks of investing in investors, milk making money out of the present world than investing in future structure. Then you should ask: Is expecting some action on the top of the world's population. Industrial and innovation ministers who help the Icelandic economy become directly attractive to investments? And if so, where do they appear in the financial program as presented? Or so I put it another way: Is this government's program to put economic growth ahead of commercial markets and how?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u66	Madam President. I would say that tools to achieve these goals are certainly part of the budget, i.e. We expect a substantial amount of money, up to 10 billion over the next five years, into innovation. The work is going on to see how they get the best use. And first, in terms of marketing failure, it is being set up here with this investment fund in sceptres and innovations for these more risky projects and should contribute to the increased involvement of private investors in investments in innovations and sceptres. The second action is, of course, we're winning this innovation policy. It will not only have a guide but it will also tell what needs to be done to reach its goals. We know it's more expensive here than anywhere else to start a business, and we also know that in some respects the environment here is still considerably immature compared to the neighboring countries. My main goal in innovation policy and the action we follow is, in fact, to raise an environment of innovation in Iceland - I'm not going to be a judge, whether it's from the first or the second stairway - to such a fourth, fifth stairway. Of course, this will take some time, but it will also require that we be somewhat chosen to make decisions in that situation. Because we're putting a lot of money into a new business in Iceland. We need to honestly answer whether the money is all in the places to which it belongs. Likewise, when we start this fund - there are certain people who will criticize the fact that the State is putting money in first - term ventures. But I believe it's the right priorities for the government. That's what the countries have done that's gone beyond us, they've had to start there. I'll be happy to admit it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u67	Madam President. I couldn't agree more than that. A minister, of course, that when the situation is the way it is today, the government needs to take action. Worldwide, it is natural for a state to come in with some kind of investment funds and other means to initiate innovation and initiate that machine. But I am asking, in effect, about a mere once - in - a - minute factor that is, is it not a question of the future of our economic and economic conditions that growth levels outweigh economic growth? Because it encourages investments that do not exist today. Separation of economic and professional governance in this country has grown to a long time ago. Because it's naturally connected, and it's much more connected than it's ever been. So I believe it to the highest. Minister has a clear understanding of this. Her first answer is heard. Of course, we must try to cope with this whole - souled situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u68	Madam President. It is true that, of course, economic and commercial issues are largely hanging together. In terms of growth, there is no end to the task. Of course, in some respects we are in an excellent place today. But there are also many other factors that threaten to do so. I think that by achieving this policy, we are increasing our understanding and improving our level of activity and that this will bring us results. With mature environments, including the whole of the innovation environment, it may also have more impact on the development of the matter, on the sectoral and on the economic issues and on the context of the parts. You're right, it's hanging a lot together, and we need to do better than we do right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u69	A respectable president. I'm so happy to have a chance to talk to the highest level. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers on the topic fields belonging to them. I'd like to start by stopping by the tourism services and particularly celebrating the construction of sustainable tourism and that the standards and projects on which we are involved all turn to the level of sustainability and increase it. These include goals. to increase the value rate by 1.5% per year, to monitor attitudes toward the development of tourism and to work on the development of tourism on the basis of the Paris Convention. I also welcome special words from a secretary to avoid plans for the neighborhood flight development fund, even though it has not been fully new, because I believe it is very important to continue using it as an incentive to increase the distribution of tourists across the country, whether by direct international flight or by increasing the number of flights that serve especially within the country. I've had conversations with the highest. Minister for the key role of the market room in the country developing tourism and post-marketing destinations. So I would like to ask you about the development of the marketing agency's activities - what does that involve? The financial agenda shows that the 2011-03/020 travel programme is in effect while the development of long-term policy is being developed. How will it be presented? [[The president calls.]] In a new travel plan or other way?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u70	Madam President. Thank you. A senator will agree on the question of sustainability. Selfishness, innovation, and infrastructure - all are very popular terms. Of course, sustainability is only a word until some standards are set in the back. That's what we're mostly working on right now. In terms of long-term travel policies, this is a huge project that we are on, including AFLU Labs, travel management, international advisers from abroad and others, in which the educational community and various institutions and others are involved. That is where we have this first phase, which is marking these indicators, more than 60 of them. Now, number two, we're trying to set these standards behind it. We've already said, "Here's the maximum speed - but who is it to be? " Now we're trying to figure out who he's supposed to be. Fasi three on this project is actually this long-term travel dating program. We'll see what comes out of phase two. That will really show us what our long - term course is. If we've decided that we're going to try to be self-sustained and that we've figured out the course - where we're going. As for the development of the marketing service, the market agencies, as we have previously discussed here in this room, me and the other. A senator, of course, who is doing a very important job in many lands. They are combined in different ways. We now have a declaration of cooperation. They don't have legal roles. I want to see the market agencies develop in a way that has a legal function. My opinion is that they should develop in the direction of becoming compartments. In accordance with destination schedules, they would be in-houses. But I also feel that taking the initiative will have to be a bit of a step from them themselves. I won't write a bill against their will and say, "You're doing this now. But if we're going to be able to develop the market agencies, so that they have defined roles, perhaps also. in the market, we have work to do with how to develop it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u71	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. It would be a long time to talk about travel. I'd like to go to the innovation, which is the prerequisite for the nation's increased resources and competitiveness, as we shall see in the plan. Iceland has some success in innovation and knowledge industry. There's healing. Now we've been working on the shape of a new creation policy. This, of course, is a key to seeing that the budget allows space to work according to the policy when it becomes ready. It is intended to increase export costs, practical technical solutions for climate and new jobs in the fields of knowledge. The only newcomer in the innovation environment is a blank technical square, which has the responsibility of implementing technical transfer and mental protection for Icelandic scientific society to use the investment the government is putting into research and development. In order for her to return to society. Is the management of technical squares secure in the program? Besides, I find the most exciting projects for digital carpenters and food policy development to be very exciting. [[The president calls.]] So if a minister had time to tell us something more about them, that would be interesting. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u72	Madam President. Not long ago, when the wealth of technology was officially opened. In fact, it is our job to secure money from it. The budget allows us to expand our work so that nothing else is on the agenda but to continue to sustain and sustain life, because it is also a long time - long - term step, even though you are enjoying it when it is finally taken. But we've known for a very long time that it's very important. What we really need in this innovation environment is much more cohesive and more distant - I think that's just a word. A senator I caught up with and used in many meetings since then. I think they're really good at what they're doing. The wealth of technical squares is a more efficient way of getting knowledge that will be available in the educational community and putting it into practical knowledge, valuables, and businesses, etc. So it is quite clear that the wealth has come for us to be, starting smallly, and growing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u73	Madam President. I appreciate the opportunity to ask the highest. Minister only to travel services. I hope to the highest. Ministers respect me that I may be more interested in the underlying position of this article than in the individual financial resources or indicators of government and policy goals, although I still enjoy many of the good work being done there. It's long time to take policy for the article more intimate than ever before. The situation is, in simple terms, that the economic grounds of the government's budget rest a little on this sector and what its development will be this year and the future losses. We're in the middle of a very heavy cloud. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister only to her assessment of the situation. The financial programme accounts for a decrease in the number of tourists by more than 2%. The latest predictions of Istavia seem to indicate, as well as the facts we have seen over a year, that the situation could be quite inferior. And this morning, Anion Bank published a new economic forecast assuming that there will be an overall decline in the number of tourists to the country, depending on whether WOW manages to get by wind or not. The projection assumes that this will eventually lead to an indentation of 15 to 152%, a significant reversal of the economic forecast we are working on from this point on. What's the assessment? Minister of this position? What's the top count? In view of her knowledge of the case, does a minister find practical in these matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u74	Madam President. There's a bit of tension here. These are days when you need to be careful to look at the phone when you go on a platform to find out what's going on. Everything changes so fast. This shows in many ways how fragile the environment and industry are. This also shows how amazingly dependent we are on the flight. These are two professional items. Airship is one thing, and tourism is another. In many lands, there is a much clearer understanding. But here we are so incredibly dependent on the flight that it will all be held together. The interests of the flight are often different from the interests of tourism or our community as to which we want to get out of the sector. If you take the uncertainty of this particular airline out of parentheses now, I'll say until now: That there is a significant slowing of population growth that in itself is good. The growth has been self-sustaining. It is also an opportunity to be able to only breathe into your abdomen, make decisions, whether it concerns your government or your business, but if you see some dip or a great decrease, it will naturally tear down everything, and especially for less - important companies. I've always been trapped in the fact that a lot of tourists are not what matters, that we can't expect this growth to continue. Despite the nearness of the increase, it does not say that it is bad. Rather, our mission is far more likely to ensure that the quality of people comes, stay, go around the country, and spend money here. That's what we want to see in travel services, not just watch the numbers rise. A economist might say that everything eventually works out. In the long run, the future of tourism is bright. Now it is just such a situation that predicting what happens, for example, is incredibly difficult. ... thisyear. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u75	Madam President. In recent years, it is true that we should focus on the quality of the tourists, not on the number of them. Of course, there are still many opportunities, but it does not change the rate of development of the international tourism service in the country, with years coming very dependent on the development of the aircraft. In a new economy, such as. Arion Bank is pointing out that the problem with WOW's management ratings is not only short-term failures but also the fact that the major increase in Europe's flight throughout recent years was based on very low fuel prices and very low flight costs, the prospects for lakes, and that we have long been looking for the rise of fuel, but the number of airlines has been fired with loss, and it has simply been found to reduce the quality of supply. Hence, you will consider how this will affect the tourism process for a period of time and how well it will be equipped as a profession to deal with it after this rate of growth. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u76	Madam President. I think that's what I'm talking about. There is something that a travel - service company has to do with getting ready and thinking, i.e. I believe that this extraordinary rivalry across the ocean is not sustainable in some way and can't live for a long time. This shows a problem with airlines around the world. We went to New Zealand last year or when it was, but there's a lot longer routes, so there's very few low-cost airlines there, but they have a very strong focus on which airlines they want to get to the country. They're based on only a few airlines, but they're strong, so they have only another foundation. It's not necessarily a worse foundation than ours, especially if we're not self-sustained after all. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u77	A respectable president. There are two things that concern me, and I would like to ask the highest. Minister for. First of all, I've been wondering about the lack of energy the country's population has had to face, such as. In Akureyri and the Northeast. This leads to the question: I know the highest. Minister what's going on with this so-called mixed line, or are people turning to the Calvera to get more energy into the area? Now it is known that energy is being run at diesel stations. That's probably not what we want when there's a lack of electricity. This is also happening on the West, although there is another line, the question is: We see this huge campaign in which the Landsnet is currently under attack, an eight billion dollars in earmarked. which they claim to be about the cost of attempting to connect the country with better, trying to balance everyone's access to energy. The rest of the matter is with the National Institute of Iceland and about what we're doing to counteract internationally, how a potential recession is going to become a tourist now. I know these are two questions, and we may have a little bit later to talk about it. But that's what I was wondering. And in terms of e.g. There was a lock line, a stumbling block: I ask if something went missing and the highest. A minister knows pretty much where the case is today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u78	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's questions. It is true that the situation is not acceptable, as it is today, in the transport systems of electricity. This is a special question for the Northland. Prior to this, the preparation line was to be first planned when viewing the Crucess line, the Holasinnd line, and the blending line. It is now being carried out at the end of this series because of everything that has been going on there. Now it is estimated, I understand, in 223 C.E. But the Three Scaring Line is on schedule and it's due to be started this spring. The first permit is in place. And only at these three lines are the cost of over 20 billion dollars. I have a positive outlook on life, and I hope that we will succeed in doing this progressively, these projects. I believe that there is an increased understanding and reconciliation on the importance of that, of course, the transport system has to work for people who live all over the country. There is a difference between the capital area and the region. That can't be considered fair. Then there's the independent task of setting 50 MWs, which the Power Institute believes wasted, is a waste in the system, in place. Because the transport system is not powerful enough, and the distribution system is not enough to get this into its place, it should be a project in itself, from the environment and from the rest of the world, to get these megawatts to people and companies as well. The mix Blöndulína was to be, as I say, first but is now the last. It's not in port at all. But I hope this work song, conversation, meetings, and consultations will help us to get together to complete these projects that are so important.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u79	Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. We may then begin to wonder if a marketing campaign is intended on her part and on her Ministry. We remember, for example. by the time we launched the Inspired by Iceland, which brought us great happiness and thought that it may have helped us considerably - with the Eyjafjörður and Justin Bieber - on this point, a great stream of tourists began streaming. I'd like to know if there's anything in the maps about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u80	Madam President. That's quite true, Inspired by Iceland, or Iceland the whole year, was very successful. That's still true. But we have some contracts, i.e. My Department, I'm in Iceland's office on these factors, and now it's all being revised when we have a new arrangement for Iceland. That's what it's gonna look like. What has changed over the past few years is the effects of power in all the markets in the country. Hv. A senator named Justin Bieber. Of course, we've also been in trouble; he goes to Fedral Canyon, and we end up shutting down because no one expected any of that trouble in such places. All of this, therefore, is very variable and vigorous. But in terms of special efforts, we are part of our response plan and potential response. If there is a severe disturbance in the flight or outer environment of the tourism service here, one of the factors that need special attention is whether we are going to have such a struggle and what it might bring to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u81	V.E.G. President. I appreciate that. A minister has had an appointment for his tribe of litigation. But I still want to discuss only travel pay or travel services. In 2013, when the member of the council agreed that there was nothing left to wait for some kind of expense to be paid for the tourism service. Men were bitter that they hadn't done it for a long time. Now it turns out that we've spent these six years, and we haven't done anything about it. The introduction to chapter 14 shows that plans for an increase in worth taxation for this article have been put aside for the terms of the election, which is naturally very good because it was practical to do so. In effect, though, the article says that there is a search for income. It is the simplest way to earn as a profit from this operation, perhaps a simple price that would be laid on every cargo to the country, i.e. On both flights, ferrys, and cruises. It would not have to be high to collect large amounts of money. But another thing is that we haven't done it until now, perhaps for the last few months, to collect from already engaged activities. At the most, the supply of Airbnbs was as much as possible. in the capital area and all hotel rooms. We let it go without question. There was nothing to record this. That's what you did. A minister, and I am grateful to her for that and appreciate it. But I'm also afraid of that, because now it is implied that the registration and special action of registration will be terminated in the middle of the year. That's very bad because, just by already reimbursement, not reimbursement, but by using the existing things, we should be able to get the money out of the article we're not reaching right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u82	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's questions and his point of view. First of all, we haven't done anything - I don't think so. Of course, we've made some changes, to make up a change in traffic laws that allow parking costs in rural areas and not just in urban areas, which have made significant relief at certain locations. National parks are authorized to pay and to do so, not to everyone much joy, but a source of importance to make the right use of. There is still a group at work to discuss these matters. I feel very calm about it, though it may take weeks before it returns, so I think any discussion about further payment on tourism at this point is rather heavy. I don't feel that there is a particular need for further expenditure on the article. We also have a host tax, and that's where I agree. It may only mix up, come charge, and stay tax, because we can break that tax stock. Today, such is not the case on cruise ships and other factors, and not homemaking; it could be extended to all who come to pay each night. Who financed that particular project, e.g. The construction of infrastructure in many parts of the country. About the dormitory. The campaign is certainly over, but its growth is expected to continue. It is not that we have gone into trouble and then go back to our old ones. Rather, we are now making sure of the money we need so that the surveillance works. And then, hopefully, we're bringing in the council for a scheduled continuation bill that will further improve this environment. [[The president calls.]] I'll find out in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u83	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answers. They were clear - cut, as is hoped - for and pointed. I'm glad to continue the Airbnb campaign and I'd like to hear it from the highest level. Minister, how many registrations did this special campaign bring? It was about 3,000 units, if I recall correctly, that were unsolved, just in the capital area. It would be fascinating to hear about it. But then there's something else I think is important in this context. It is the distribution of energy. I think travel services and/or tourism are at four locations per budget. We have an Iceland lab, a travel agency, we have special travel arrangements and I think that's where we should go together. We should unite ourselves. It is also difficult for those who are starting this business to attend all kinds of licenses and such things in many places. I think this misunderstanding is a man-made phase and we're supposed to wind it off.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u84	Madam President. Hv. A senator enters so many interesting points that I wish I had a few minutes to answer. First, the extent to which travel is spread in the network. You're absolutely right. We've just changed the U.S. Office, and her general role is to market Iceland for all industry. But what I think is a key to this is that we set up a license patrol puzzle that's in shape, and I hope we'll start to look at the light of the day. Because it should not matter to the person who decides to set up a company for travel services or other information about any government or institution, it should simply go to the Internet, after which it is ours to put it in the right places. It would simplify it very simply because the tourism service will always be a big part of the system. Its uses are widely available. This also shows the importance of transport practices for tourism, a national programme that is subject to environmental ministers, and so on. Regarding the homework campaign, I will better present these messages because I am incredibly happy with all of this. There are over 3,000 indications of illicit short - term rents that have been received since the campaign began. [[The president calls.]] There are 23 million, only in registration, and they come every year. Many apartments have been sold as a result. In the capital area, fishermen assume that black jobs have been drawn together by 35% since the beginning of the campaign.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u85	Madam President. At the last industrial assembly, the highest power was delivered. Minister of the fine speech and spoke even. the importance of innovation. Its substance would not be replaced by traditional articles but would work with them, develop them. Of course, you're absolutely right. It is a joy to think that there has been an increase in money for innovation in this program, but the first question is, Is it not surprising that at the same time, it is being reduced to university, perhaps the eggheading point of intelligence? I'd like to speak to a minister about the construction industry, which is an extremely important industry, representing about 8% of the domestic product. Good and safe housing is among our basic needs, especially in an Icelandic weather country. The structure has not been rapid enough. The cost of building is too high. That's what normal people do for cleaning. The largest of the reasons is surely high financial costs at the same time, and production is considerably lower than that of our neighbors, and both of us need to fail. Of course, we could have long conversations about the cost of the crown, but here I am going to concentrate on the production. How does a minister explain a total lack of ambition when it comes to funding research and promoting innovation in the Icelandic construction industry? There are other factors to encourage, too, these things, e.g. - That's a way of being loyal. A growing problem with molds is no doubt due to much of the wrongness of buildings and the same as the method of building around here. So I ask the highest. In view of the fact that this will result in less expensive housing, faster building, and, of course, healthy living quarters, a minister would not have an incredible short vision and waste in not spending more money on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u86	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's questions. First of all, about the innovations, it is true that I brought up the matter in my talk in the trade council, and I believe that innovation in the broad context is the most important part of our society today, and all of our decisions should bear in mind and consider how they may affect every sort of innovation. Regarding the construction issues, a few things were discussed. First of all the costs, the environment, the orderliness, I agree with it. Senator. That's why we went on this project with OECD, a competitive estimate of a considerable amount of money, more than 100 million in which we take up two sectors, the rest of our tourism, and the building sector in an effort to see this in the overall context. Where are e.g. obstacles? Where do we have an unduly complicated rule? In general, when it comes to the complexity and cost of building, we cut down on art in comparison with other neighboring countries. As to questions about molds and research, I cannot help but agree. Senator. I've been meeting with people who say, "You're looking at all the money and shit 'cause there's mold everywhere, but there's still no money to investigate it. This may be a group of subjects that feel a relapse, and the responsibility may be too far off. [[The president calls.]] It's not up to me to try to get some conversation between institutions and recruitment programs in order to try to ensure some money on these projects because they are important. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u87	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I'm glad she's willing to take a look at this, but it's odd that this case happens between a cane and a door because it's a huge part of our business and, of course, affecting every family. Our neighbors are engaged in highly intensive and expensive research that is aimed at developing housing. It's very necessary. In Sweden, Norway, and Denmark, the apartment building has developed tremendously over the years and decades while we go back because the only solutions we see are actually cutting down, even by quality buildings. We're not looking for a new creation. I show a minister that by spending a lot of money on these researchs, money will be saved in the future, so I don't talk about the importance of people's health. Finally, I reiterate the question, doesn't it seem strange to cut down to college at the same time that men certainly put more into innovation?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u88	Mr. President. I'm going to take a closer look at the OECD because I'm so excited about it and I hope people are interested in that project because I believe that it has an incredible opportunity to do better. The countries that have gone on this project feel that they can measure the future increase in economic growth. This is not in harmony with what I've been discussing as a government meeting in which these cases have been discussed. Rather, we are adding even more money to that system. In case of a moment. A senator is referring to the loan fund, and the impact there is an explanation. But I can't say that it is in any way being cut down to the university in this program.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u89	Mr. President. In this traffic, I'd like to risk asking the highest. A minister on two different points, though, turns both toward measuring decisions. First, according to Article 1 of the Management Board, Studies and Knowledge Articles, the success rate of applications in the EU study and innovation programme was 18.1% in 2018, but the criteria were met by 18% in 2020 and 18% in 2024. Why is a resolution in this success rate expected as the first and only measure of success in research fund use and innovation? Mustn't be more ambitious in that, such as. rolling to 19% or even measuring the results of the number of people who benefit from research and development, as some places have done, e.g. to DARPA, U.S.A., rather than merely measuring a number of effective applications, which, of course, tells us very limited about the results? Second, targets for renewable energy in transport, fishing, and related activities are estimated to be more than 3% for 2024 and 14% respectively. By 2018, the proportion of transport was 8% and 0.8%, respectively. This only calls for a six-percent increase in transport over a period of five years, in view of environmental stress, that would be considered an extremely progressive goal. Indeed, over the same five years, over 3% of the goals of the carbon dioxide crisis required for the 2030's, the strong targets of fishing are highly difficult to grasp. Is there any particular reason for the lack of ambition that is evident in that purpose? Is it not possible to set the target higher in both categories?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u90	Mr. President. First, about the previous question. Senator on the success rate of applications in the EU research and innovation programme. This is part of the education minister's field, so I don't know exactly why it's the same percentage. There are no doubt some very good explanations. A senator may then disagree, but I don't know it that well enough. With the proportion of renewable energy sources in Iceland's energy supply, I agree exactly with that. To the extent that this is a careful forecast by a senator. This is according to standard energy forecasting. Of course, I hope in the next plan, we'll be able to set a higher percentage, which is dependent on all other factors. For transport, it is a major factor in the availability of these automobiles in Iceland. Based on the plans of an interested manufacturer in this context, I could quite believe, if possible, that the percentage will be significantly elevated when we have increased opportunities so that all interested ones can get a car and that we are at the point where the price of such automobiles is so that a traditional family can afford them, especially when it comes to a family with just one car. We know that today's trend is that those with two cars have the second car like this. I hope next year we'll have a higher percentage and we'll admit that this is a careful forecast. You can argue if we should have a higher percentage.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u91	Mr. President. As for the first act, there are certainly study plans in the fields of Education, but this does not change the fact that innovation companies are engaged in much of these research. You would have thought that the role of innovation companies would come into the field of work at the highest level. Minister. But for the rest, it's interesting to have the highest interest. A minister repeatedly predicts that this is consistent with energy forecasting. The point is that this is not a forecast but a goal. Of course, the government has the authority to set the goal considerably higher than the forecast. If we're just going to follow the forecast, we're actually going to be able to pretend that the economy is on autopilot, and the government has no effect. On the other hand, if we say: " We're going to set ambitious goals to deal with climate problems, we're going to work with, for example. In the process of improving the share to 5, 6, 7% in the next five years, we are undergoing serious action that may harmonize with an ambitious government plan. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u92	Mr. President. This is true, but we always set goals that may include. Based on specific predictions. But as I say, this is updated every year and it may be our success, and I hope it will increase this percentage for the future goal next year. In terms of cooperation with the seabed - and then we also come into the ports and so forth - we have had certain work done as a map map where the need is, where it is, and what cost it is. The cost is natural significant. So far, we have and remember the next year more emphasis on the renewable energy supply of transport in the country than on the rest, because we have advanced there and are able to achieve considerable success for considerably less money. We have increased emphasis on this. Of course, other goals may be seen at other locations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u93	Mr. President. At first, we should thank you for the highest. Ministers and governments focus on innovation, research and knowledge. I think everyone can agree that it's a good and important approach. The minister's vision of the future on behalf of the seminary is very ambitious. She assumes that Iceland will be leading in these areas. It is safe to say that in order to do so, even if we are now active, there is a great need to keep our cards on every front. We are, I think, most of us would agree to strive to make sure that the money laid down in the seminary will bring about an increase in the number of people, valuable jobs, and large quantities of exports. The plan shows that it is intended to establish a new investment fund that should be invested in sceptres and innovations. However, the plan does not reveal how large a trust fund will be or how to finance it - otherwise than it does. Private funds are expected into investments, making investments with the funds. The highest. Minister informed of the size of this fund? And what about the government's lot there? And what are some ideas about the nature of the government's investment, how it will be collected, and what are some of its fruits? And then another question: Large increases are expected to be expected to reimburse corporate research and development costs, reported on the highest level. Minister. [[The president calls.]] The highest. Ministers are shooting at how much increase will be in the season?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u94	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's questions. So I answer the first one, it is assumed that the funds will come from the agricultural sector, i.e. that it is part of the innovation money, money, which is not expected to enter a national fund temporarily to five years of age, but in a new creation project. That is why they are being proclaimed in the budget. In terms of size, I hope we can set up the fund this year, but that is because it will not be quite right back then. Of the exact number, I dare not divulge now. The extent or extent of our success in this year depends solely on the exact date of innovation policy and the way work takes place, how long this will take. In the case of a fruit requirement and other such factors, the output is to be done. What's being proclaimed here is that this fund will be created, that it will come from the interest paid by land requisitions, which would go into a national fund, and this is the focus of their resources. Now I'm trying to remember the second question...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u95	For reimbursement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u96	- About reimbursement. Of course, the roof has been raised to 600 million. In fact, the Ministry of finance has underestimated the payment, so we are raising it even more now. How it may develop, I dare not resign. But what we also need to do is make sure that the compliance with these arrangements is sufficient when we make the decision so that we are sure that the money will take care of everything.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u97	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. So, just so I completely understand about the financial resources that are in the budget, is the contribution of the national funds in those numbers, or is the contribution of the National Fund outside? Then there is another, because all of this is what we do in order to increase our country's economy and expand our export. A few years ago, the director of a major innovation firm told me that it was very difficult to create innovation in Iceland because it was like turning the wands out of a glacier, and then a glacier would come and wipe out everything in the process. Does a minister not worry that economic conditions, economic swings, low, unstable currency, make it really impossible in the long run to reach the radical, ambitious goal that we will be in the highest order among the world nations in this area? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u98	Mr. President. It is money that will never enter the national treasure, but it will be taken away before financial resources enter the national treasure. This is done temporarily for five years. With regard to the second question, it is quite true that we have had a problem keeping larger companies on the land. It is also a problem that many other countries face that has a completely different situation from ours. But we need to work harder to make sure that the environment is in such a way that the companies stay here. That's even. Because of what I believe, when it comes to reimbursement in research and development, we are going to say: Here we are going to locate ourselves. Here we are going to be strong, and we want companies to have their work posts when it comes to research and development, even if certain other factors are elsewhere. [[The president calls.]] I don't agree that it's impossible. In the end, this will always be a interests assessment. Self - currency has its flaws, but it also has advantages. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u99	A respectable president. We're talking about a financial plan, the highest. Secretary of travel. During my review of travel, I could not see the name of the disabled in terms of travel, domestic or foreign. Of course, it is one of the main factors that all of us have the same exact access to the tourist attractions. Then there is another, there is no mention of the name of disabled persons or their access to hotels or hotels. In this context, it is also worth pointing to the New World Fund, which was being spoken of. It would be nice to know if any money is used in an earmark for innovation in the availability of tourist places or money for disabled persons, for innovation. It's as if I say with the access, it's been very bad and it seems to be very difficult to get information, like those that tourists need special contact with group vehicles. It is very difficult to know that they are not designed to allow disabled persons to usually travel through the country in their country, let alone when they arrive at their destination - what will happen? I'm just gonna ask the highest. Minister: Why is there no such issue in this financial program?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u100	Mr. President. First of all, if I understood the reason why there are earmarks in building timbers at resorts of the innovation fund. A senator is not. However, the process is not completed when it comes to this fund. His purpose and purpose are different from that of others. A senator mentions. It may be rather that this applies, e.g. Today's tourist attraction fund, which we just announced. It's a competitive fund, it's got quite a bit of money in it. I don't have the guts to promise, but I remember that we've put in applications where we have to determine whether or not that assignment guarantees equal access to everyone. Of course, these people's interests and rights are being promoted to me when it comes to the distribution of public funds for projects. What I've thought about is whether projects that guarantee this should outweigh or even whether there is a requirement for it, perhaps with any exception, if so, but with such equal value. Because these things are often so often, people just need to remember to put on those glasses and think about them. It's the eternal battle that I believe well that very tiresome of having to stand in, because this is supposed to be a self-centered thing. I notice that there are certain members of society who always ask about the same thing, which is only very good, to help more people put on these glasses, whether they are communities or individuals or to use tax dollars to build up wood in tourist places, that it is guaranteed. For example, when I visited the United States. [[The president calls.]] Thus, it is mandatory, especially in national parks and elsewhere, to ensure this access, even though it may not apply in all places, although everyone has the opportunity to enjoy the destination and the natural world. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u101	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for this. I completely agree with her that this is supposed to be in there. There should not be a question. It's just human rights, and in accordance with the United Nations Convention, which we have approved. But then there is something else. There's a loading station set up for electric cars all over the country. It also forgets the normal thing that special loading stations must be set for those who are disabled because they cannot use standard loading stations. As a result, it seems, unfortunately, and it is kind of sad to think that you have read this whole set of cases in terms of budgets and are not mentioned in one place by a disabled person or a facility for the disabled, either in tourist areas or in the battery of electric cars.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u102	Mr. President. I just agree with what. Senator. Of course, there are rights, apart from the fact that it's only a lot more sensible for us to take care of this when we're off to build up instead of forgetting it - because it's often unconscious - and then we have to go back and fix things we've just set up to do, instead of doing things properly from the start. Because everything we did is taken, everything we did long ago, and it also has to be fixed to ensure everyone's availability. About the loading posts, I appreciate it. A senator for this indication and put it in place, but he also knows that this has happened before when we're trying to get on with it. They are working especially on how to meet this challenge. Of course, we want, not just to achieve our goals, but to make this technology and comfort available to everyone, that everyone can load his car, not just some.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u103	A respectable president. Of course, I do not have much time for a detailed review of this series of five - minute discourses, since I sort of assume that the members of the council who will later address may be more interested in communicating and directing questions to what is being said. That's why I'm just gonna go through the biggest lawsuits, and then we're gonna go back to the discussion. First on the topic fields of 27, disability and the affairs of disabled people, in a financial program. This figure is expected to be 510 million in 2020 due to poor housing that has been significant in recent discussions, as well as in 2020 1.1 billion as a result of the proposed changes in social security benefits and that amount goes to 4 billion. With regard to the affairs of disabled persons, a prior financial program still leaves 70 billion expected. K. Annually due to the NPA contracts. A legal group of older people is expected to include 100 million new budgets in 2020 to improve the interests of the less qualified elderly. Is it even? carried out in accordance with the results of a government service group appointed to take the initiative. It is now a bill that, of course, will have to go to the final cost assessment so that the amount needed is exactly what is needed, but it is in progress. In regard to family matters, the 29th topic area, the first concern is the change to obstetricity. Both funded to complete the increase offered on January 1, 2019, and capitals to extend birthworm, where one month is expected to prolong birth holiday length in 2020 and two months in 2021. There's quite a lot of money involved. There's still 200 billion in there, too. K. a contribution to strengthening children's litigation. As refugees'receptions increase by 180 million, there will be some 700 million each year. Expenditure change in the labour market sector is mainly made clear by increasing contributions to the sector's recycling fund and aCTIVE SUBST. By 2020, 217 million are added. It is proper to assume that unemployment expenditures are not included, since they are not part of the state's framed expenses. As regards housing support, it is then assumed that the collapse of the stock growth process from the previous financial programme was lost for the 20200/2022. Thus, in 2019 C.E., the budget remains unchanged. In the media, growth is expected to take into account the demographic and built - in growth. The premiums of financial programmes account for a 3% increase in old age and a 2.5% increase in disability pensioners, which takes into account the development of the past few years. It is estimated that as a result of economic growth, expenses account for a total of 3,93/4, or 21 billion annually, up to 2024. Of course, financial programmes are so important that there are a lot of projects in development, and in financial programs there are things that are certainly critical, as they are going to be, and I think that members of the Parliament will be involved in the following discussion. But there are still very important measures in the plan, such as. prolongation of the hysterectomy. By doing so, the government has raised both maternity payments and has provided funding for the prolongation of orcs, which was highly criticized for financial matters during the past year. Then there are areas of housing that are still in the discussion to make up the first purchase, the funds that will be needed there. It is not expected in this financial program, as it is installed in what way it will be. It even spells. Because a working group is working on it, and we expect to see the results soon enough. Or it may be that some of the factors involved in a conversation between the government and the labour market partners may make some changes in financial programmes. [[The president calls.]] But, as I say, there are details about birthworm and general apartments inside. [[The president calls.]] But I look forward to a future discussion, hoping that it will be objective and beneficial. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u104	The president would like to ask the speakers to give a talk session, since there are a lot of speeches all day long. In that case, it is very important that the session be held, or we all lose our hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u105	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. I'd like to discuss the situation of disability today, especially how it is claimed that the prerequisite for decrepating a dollar to a dollar is the induction of a job estimate. I'd like to mention this here, since I can't possibly understand how to set it this way. I see in the budget that governments seem aware of a flexible labour market and the benefits of the flexibility for development. So I have missed that governments put greater emphasis on government work in public. Thus, there would be opportunities for those who want to contribute to the workforce. It's certainly a teamwork project called 4DX, and it's an experiment, as I read it in the budget - on page 137 for interested people - but it actually works quite complex for me. I'd like a minister to explain to us how it works, and if at some point he didn't intend to spread it across the country, provided that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u106	A respectable president. These were just two questions. First, how a dollar a year in convention was involved in a work estimate. The Treaty of the current government states that the evaluation and concomitant funding will be used to eliminate the impairment and improve the terms of this group. There has been a work programme in progress, and associated with it, it is expected to be a step step in decommissionation. It has been proclaimed by the government and the government that this will go hand in hand. Then there is the 4DX project mentioned in a financial program. Work is preparing to start the project. The project will include: that our systems involved in, the labour agency, parts of the medical system, and others work together as a team in the matter of microenergy pensioners and prospects. I think this is a very exciting project. It may not be possible to reveal it publicly with great force, but it is being made up of humans. You're completing this conversation and form in what way it can become so that you can have a more intensive cooperation which means that we will lose fewer people out of a labour market and into a microenergy pension. This is especially true for young people who go out of a job market because of spiritual difficulties or illnesses.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u107	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. 4DX is certainly promising, and I hope that the project will work out and will not be difficult to follow. But what I miss more is that parts of the government have been started, as I mentioned earlier. V.E.G. As a minister spoke only of poor farms, I would like to know if they are usually not expected to respond to the 200 men who are prepared to correct them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u108	A respectable president. It's clear, and I've said there's no basis for completing a work evaluation or anything until part-time work is done. For the official now, a conversation between the minister and the minister is about to form in what way the public sector can take a powerful step in that situation. But then the general market needs to follow, and we need to examine how such motivation can be built up. It is very important that the public sector step forward, and it is in preparation but is not established to believe that it is a reason to be specifically introduced into a financial programme. I'm pointing out, though, that we have microcolleague contracts in there, too. In the case of reduced habitats, we are dealing with budget 2020, not with the current budget. It has been reported that the Ministry is in a conversation with the Ministry of Economics to provide financial resources for the start of the year 2019 with what can be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u109	Mr. President. For the next five years, it seems to me that the elderly are to be left behind again. True, an additional 4 billion is expected to be due to changes in the social security system, but it's not in the nose of cats, I'll say, if you go on reforming the ideal disability. The votes of those who have to rely on insurance agencies are far too bad. Money from people living together doesn't reach the minimum. It is only those who live alone and get household chores - which cut off a dollar from a dollar - that reaches the minimum. It is shameful for this rich nation that we live in so badly that microorganisms or older ones or those who rely almost exclusively on the payments of an insurance agency. In its text on the 20th case, entitled "Grorth and the Issues of Disorientated People, " a number of disability are spoken of by the president of the United States by permission: ▪ Nothing to do is estimated to increase by 1.9% per year to 2030, and the number of microorganists is about 31% increase since 2017. The percentage of workers in the population will then be 9.2% and the recalculation will be about 90 billion dollars. Mr. President. I sometimes feel that the growth in disability is no more like that of some people who feel that it is to blame themselves for the increase. But is that not so, so is the musculoskeletal problem of disability? There's more of the women there. Then there is a mental disorder. There are many young men there. Shall we not then, Mr. President? And I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on this - put the money and benefits into work protection and mental health care? If we did, wouldn't the number of microorganisms be reduced?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u110	A respectable president. I think you're right about what you're talking about. A senator and I agree absolutely that this is of utmost importance to this group, as we see the growth of disability. Regarding mental problems, we see young people going far too early in disability. The government is preparing very radical changes so that they can act sooner with young people who thus fall off the track because we do not want to lose these individuals into disability. For the musculoskeletal problems, I think there are also many reasons. The workforce is under pressure, how the labour market is built up. It is a interaction between home life and work markets and pressures, especially when we are talking about musculoskeletal problems in women, a tremendous strain when it comes to doing so. There, we do not need to think only about work protection, which, in fact, we are doing very much and that changes are being made in the work programme to bring it to the focus of the focus of changing priorities. With regard to the labour market in general, we have an experimental project that has to do with the government's shortening of the workweek. These matters need a different view, not merely one factor. But we also need to assist those who have come to that place to get back to the job market. The government has believed that the best way to do this is to make changes in our rehabilitation system, have our systems talk together, and introduce a new working and rehabilitation system simultaneously. Maybe we don't see eye to eye, me and what. A senator, in what way it is done, but we agree, I think, about the need for it to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u111	Mr. President. I just want to say that there's not a system modification that will reduce the number of micro-organisms. However, there are preventive measures. That's where we're supposed to put the money. The overall cost of housing support, however, is reduced if we look at the overall housing situation. So there's no plan to rebuild the growth reform system, or support the first buyers, I can't find it in the plan. I'm waiting for the highest. A minister to point me out if there's any place to go. So the suggestions of an effort group on housing are not financed. Everyone claims to agree that the problem of housing and the cost of having covered over their heads is due to the fact that the problem will be solved only by government access. Governments put in great ideas, but they only finance one. That's all. Tells you the highest. Minister that growing stock supply of 3.8 billion will solve the housing problem, both economic and welfare? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u112	A respectable president. It's true that there's not money in this budget that's turning toward first purchases, so the team's working now, and they're doing action that's going to happen, I think, very good. They'll be introduced when they're finished. It would be highly unnatural for us to have put in precise financial budgets for them, so I brought it into my opening talk that they needed to intervene. I think it would be in many ways better than the current growth reform system to introduce a new first purchase system, and that is what the government is working on. With the suggestions of an effort group on housing, I'd like to encourage you. A senator to read them well because not all suggestions are included in which he is expected to need billions of dollars. We can achieve an increasing stroke by a large number of internal measures, and there has been a great deal of pleasure in the trade unions and in the working world, both in the initiative group and in all the postmenopausal activities involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u113	A respectable president. I wanted to talk to the highest. Family affairs, especially the children's matters - and I welcome the emphasis the Minister has placed on that group - about how much it costs to do nothing at first. It is far more expensive not to respond right away than to place money on such an important case as prevention and some resources. At that time, it is important that the arrangements are in the first degree, so we are not always responding in the third degree. That's my opinion. I wanted to talk to the highest. Ministers and how we can ensure that there is some forethought in how we can use our strength with the members of the third sector. I'd like to mention "Sexics of Mind, Conspiracy, and others in the process of giving open resources in mind and increasing the flea. " These companies are often the ones who can multiply every dollar in the service being rendered in place of some institution or someone who always has to follow some strict box. How can we cooperate with these associates and provide them with some foreboding so that there will be forethought in their business? And so, at the same time, with the long - term improvement and stability of the process?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u114	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this suggestion and say that I think we share a complete vision in this. The sooner you grab it, the better. Not just for the individual but for the entire state funds, in time, much more practical. With regard to the government's connection to a free society, I think it's kind of a two-way thing. First, of course, we need to ensure that there is some error in the funding of these Free Society organizations and some of the overall benefits of a free community organization. I know it's the highest. The Minister of Þórdís Kolbrún Reykfjörð Gylfadóttir has a proposed bill that is to put members in a particular form so that all of them are built up in the same way in transparency and other forms. Second, the official link to this free organization. Hv. A senator mentions the formation of a Game of Mind. How can we connect our system to this organization? There I think the combination of all this, i.e. The state, which can often be a bit hovered and square, which is only the nature of the state's authority - and does not have the Free Society Association and Law for Social Services, how social services are written, how other legislation supports society freedom, and how these talk together. There I believe a transliterated group of working men. A senator plays a key role - form a way to ensure the first degree of resources and cooperation between these parties. In connection with that work, I see myself going on, and we've only begun working on it, including some of them. with a new program of child protection planned for the council, to take steps aimed at putting more emphasis on the first phase of service.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u115	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for these answers and agree that I think we need to get this into a routine so that this one is well mentioned in a financial program so that this group of partners can see a little ahead of time, can do a little work and get some stability. This helps them to carry out their nuclear functions. We also need to bear in mind not to communicate with too many so that all will have little and only use it in the manager's office. They need to go to the real business. Then I would like to mention just one other example of the fact that there are communities and social services that perform many good tasks that open up and spread. The ART project started in the South, but it's all over the country. The same problem has been to achieve long - term contracts so that the project is not always wasting time in defending itself but is able to care for what it is to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u116	A respectable president. Yes, it is true that more money is needed into a number of sectors. I'm not going to belittle it. That is true of social matters, such as many other lawsuits in our community. That's about 200 million, though. K., in particular, earmarked at the Department of Social Affairs, to a free society of the so - called old museum members, who were long well off on the financial committee. But the applications are enormously high there. There are over two times that amount each year. It is such a great and powerful flea of a free organization that we would like to support. Then there are some work that has been difficult to negotiate with. The ART is one of them. The force in Akureyri is another project that has been in some way between the European Commission and the budget. There are other groups waiting. It is extremely important that we resolve these matters, but unfortunately it is that neither the dierent nor the ART in the present budget, so there is still some short - term solutions that need to be reinvented. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u117	President. I'm going to start by quoting chapter 27 on the disability and issues of disabled people, with the permission of a president: ▪ The general vision of the topic field is that people with impaired working ability enjoy human rights, freedom of choice, and independence and can be active and responsible members of a democratic community in the present and future. People with limited ability can live independent lives on their own terms as they earn and receive the appropriate support, service, and payment as needed at different service levels. This beautiful text can be found in a chapter on the future vision and the primary objective. This beautiful text, however, is just a dream vision while disabled people live in goodbyes and service that enables them to live independent lives and microorganisms to be held in bondage to poverty because of low pensions and a crown against a dollar's impairment. Where's the human rights? Where's your freedom of choice? Where Is Independence? Where is the ability to sustain themselves? A section on key challenges and opportunities to reform has been attributed to the rise in individuals who receive disability assessments and as shown in the text, by permission of the president: ▪ Nothing to do is estimated to increase by 1.9% per year to 2030. Obviously, aims and measures are designed to reduce the number of individuals who receive energy assessments, and this should be done by focusing more on the ability of people to work with new skills. So I ask the highest. Minister: What is it about the performance evaluation that a minister believes will have the effect of reducing the number of micro-vital patients to the loss of a cent to a dollar? If a minister does not see that the removal of a crown against a dollar's decrease could lead to exactly the same conclusion in much greater peace? As a result, this action would support the purpose of a minister of human rights, freedom of choice, and independence and would enable microorganisms to make their pace in the workforce at their own pace and at the same time to achieve good health and to recover on their own terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u118	A respectable president. It is absolutely true that the purpose of the present government is to reduce the incidence of disability compared with the figures we have and have been introduced to the committees of the council. This series of litigators went in 2016 41 billion, while 90 billion still go to the 2030 lawsuit, and this is not added to this group. There's a 50 billion increase, just compared to the increase, and we don't add to the ideal individuals in the group. It certainly needs to improve the quality of the people, the disability workers. As long as we fail to work better on individuals with both musculoskeletal and mental diseases, keeping them people and helping them stay in a job market, there is a government budget, and there will be very little to be able to add to these groups, as this increase indicates. About a question why. I don't think it's gonna work alone. I don't think that's gonna do it on its own. I think more options are needed. Thus, workers are employed for the assessment and for whom there is a change in rehabilitation. I think this needs to come together. That's the policy of the current government. It was also the policy of former governments to do things this way. I think we need a more complete approach. Excommunication of a crown against a cent decrease, certainly this will have an effect on certain groups, but we need to put this in line with the fact that a group of microenergy donors, those who are entering it, is very different from a group. A dollar or a cent may not affect one group, even though it affects another. All of this plays together.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u119	President. Thank you very much. Minister of clear answers. I don't agree with him, but that's just often the way it is. You see, when we uncrowd a cent against a dollar, we are creating a safety network that is extremely important, especially for the group of microorganists who experience overwhelming anxiety. To create this safety network, lifting up this anxiety means that people can take their step into the workforce at their own pace, and this is of utmost importance. Regarding the funding of the topic field, it is noted that 4 billion will be spent. In addition, due to the proposed changes to the social security improvement system. However, it is also noted that in the budget of the environment, there is a built - in space to cope with possible expeditation due to correction of micro-energy payments caused by reduced habitats. I'd like to ask you how much money this is. What does that mean? What is included in this built - in space? [[The president calls.]] Now I also understand that it was 4 billion dollars. This year, to reduce a penny to a dollar's disability. I wondered: " How long will a poor person have to wait if there is money? [[The president calls.]] Why can we not begin to reduce these impairments immediately to see how this would affect the quality of life of this group and their ability to achieve health?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u120	The president reminds the senators to give a speech lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u121	A respectable president. Yes, I think that's more than just a cent to a dollar's decrease. We're gonna go for a second. A senator agrees that this is a very important factor and is one of the factors involved. This is generally assumed to be somewhere between 1% and 2%, which is built-in for space, but it may vary and increase in incidence and otherwise affect it. How long do disability pensioners have to wait for it to be removed? It is quite clear, and we have reviewed that there has been a policy of the present government, and it is shown in its administration covenant, that the purpose of implementing the assessment would be replaced, and at the same time, would be replaced by the loss and terms of this group. Work on it's been going on. It's not over yet. No one, well, the desire of the one standing here would be that that that work was done, but it's not in place. [[The president calls.]] When it's over, we can take these steps.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u122	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Secretary of the story. As the minister himself entered, he did not have much time to review the group of litigators, and we still have a lot of time for humble members of the council to review in our two minutes. On the other hand, there are many issues here, so I'm just going to squeeze the focus and start asking the highest question. Minister to the maternity orcs. According to financial plan and the recent public discussion, all plans to extend the birthworm to 12 months begin at one month next year and then two on the next. I'd like a minister to talk to me first, first of all, how it's going to be replaced and if you've decided what will be divided, i.e. whether or not to be divided for five and five months and two in common or not. I also want a minister to confirm that the right to birth will be 12 months per child regardless of whether the child has one parent or two. Then I'll pray to the highest. Ministers to discuss it a little, if he has any remainder of his time, what methods the Ministry intends to use to reinvigorate the father's birth rejuvenation, which has recently been suspended, and how important it is to try that my way knows by all means how to reverse this trend.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u123	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It is true that the budget is presented with the promise to extend the birthmark to 12 months, as government policy dictates. The current budget, or the calculations, of which the switch is expected to be five, five, two, i.e. five months each parent and two change. In this regard, we assume that each child is 12 months old. Regarding the father's birth certificate, there is a serious concern that after the economic collapse, fathers would be less likely to take birthworm. Many have associated this with the high reduction of the payments in maternity clinics, so for economic reasons the man did not take as much birth stock as his mother's. It's only improved, but there's still a lot of challenges, as shown in the financial agenda text. Hopefully, the increase in both genders has failed. As I said, we assume that the earmarks are five months for the parent. At the same time, I think there is reason to consider whether a special presentation campaign or an encouragement for fathers to take part in maternity. Although we are on top of a list now, for a long time we were able to be proud of the world's greatest success in this regard. But there are signs and we want them to be, not only to equality, but also to the right of fathers and children. [[The president calls.]] This must be as close as possible as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u124	Mr. President. During the second interview period, I would like to speak to the highest level of the interview. Minister on the labour market and ask if a minister thinks it's enough to secure labour market rights. Then I'm talking about landmark traffic, chain responsibilities, mansal and such factors, which are part of his surveillance facility. I believe, with intensive supervision and developed legislation, they may not only ensure their rights as appropriate but also ensure that the state will not be made up of incomes that may result from all kinds of illegal work and sublingual activity, so there is probably one of the food boxes in which we might be involved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u125	A respectable president. I couldn't agree more. A senator in this regard. There's always the need to be on guard. We had a good discussion about this during the council during a special discussion. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson was with earlier this week. We're working on the proposals that all people agreed on, ten motions to action against social subsidies at work. We've worked very hard on it, and each responsible member of the committee is doing his or her suggestions. The team of cooperaters, or group, to be installed there, has already met, did that last week. As she shapes the procedure and decides in what way she will serve. I think, with the cooperation and cooperation between them, there's going to be an amazing improvement in these matters. [[The president calls.]] But even if we were to add money to the individual institutions, I believe that the cooperation of the organization on its own will accomplish an amazing amount of stroke.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u126	Mr. President. I, like other members of Congress, have been concerned that in this financial programme, one more trip will inevitably be left out of nowhere. It's not committed at all because there was a good desire for a minister, but it seems to me that there is a total lack of capital to attack the changes that have been announced. I'd like to have the highest. Minister to get better into it. Now, a lot of work has been put into the known system changes and is now, I understand, more or less, the future procedures involved. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of the first round of two simple questions: What are the costs of the changes planned? They must have been measured, because the expense share shown in the financial agenda is not permissible at the cost I've seen so far, especially when it comes to e.g. The most important step of decommissioning a cent against the heavior of the impairment. I think we're at the highest. A minister will wholeheartedly agree that this may be one of the most important steps in reducing the incidence of disability and encouraging the attention of people with impaired working ability from any cause. That is the first question: What is the cost of that action? I fear that it is being financed with a highly ambitious plan for the fast - decreasing rate of disability, which may be unrealistic, to think that it will be as effective as expected. But the highest. A minister may be able to review the measures that are specifically considered in order to achieve this and the financial resources that are being provided for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u127	A respectable president. As I think I've entered my opening case, the expense of a new system would not exactly be the case, since a group now working on these issues has been attracted, his divorce has not been formally submitted to the Ministry, and therefore there is not an exact cost assessment of these proposals. We, however, have 4 billion in this financial program. Of course, we need to finish this job, finish it so that we can get it into our discussion, and we can work with the situation on the other hand. For extensive cost analysis. There is also a way to update plans for the state's funds. Hv. A senator is concerned that the plans to reduce the incidence of disability should be financed. It is true that there are very ambitious figures on how to reduce the incidence of disability. The person standing here is quite worried that he will not succeed. But there's a lot at stake that it does, not just to finance better the interests of those in the disability business but also to individuals and families we're losing out on disability, on the entire economy, on government funds, and so on. It takes a really powerful effort, not just through the induction of work assessments or a new system, but on the development of part-time activities, changes in labour markets, and overall thinking change. It's not yet, and everyone has to come into that job, not just the Social Services Department, not just our unions, not just our jobs, but our whole system. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u128	Mr. President. It's hard for me to believe, chief. Minister, that the changes that have been made to the staff were not costly, I don't believe that, considering the active participation of the Ministry in that work, but that some expense figures were involved. It must have just been walked out of some frame there. However, in my ministry's inquiry at the time for the council, I think it would have been found that it would cost 11 billion to cut off a dollar from the decrease alone, except for other changes that might be made in the abduction system of micro-organization workers. I'll agree with the highest. Ministers that this is an enormously important group of paintings, and this is not just a matter of some cost to the state, it's about the quality of life of the people involved, and we're all supposed to accept and speed as much as possible this update on the system. Of course, I am concerned that if you assume that the funding of the change is primarily made by a reduction in the number of new ones, as it were, that it is highly unrealistic when you cool off in a job market, completely devoid of the ambitions involved. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But once again, I ask, " What funds are being put into the actions to contribute to that change? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u129	The president reminds the senators to give a speech lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u130	A respectable president. Yes, well, they've been working with the staff, but I think it's most reasonable that when the group introduces their suggestions, it's one of the points presented there. In turn, when the proposals have been presented and developed more closely and after the events may reveal some deeper costs, changes or financial costs can be made if more than proposed in the current budget, which can be determined to be expected. In this connection, I just want to point out a conversation that reminds me of what I'm talking about. A senator has had a financial program last year when we discussed birthworm. Hv. A senator highly criticized the lack of financial support in the program. Now it's funded because we said that when we finished that job and make a decision, it's coming in. [[Up front.]] With regard to the introduction of a new working performance assessment system, I guess. A senator trusted that, just as with the prolongation of the birthworm, the government will come with funding to introduce it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u131	A respectable president. The Treaty emphasizes the need to strengthen the position of those whose feet are on hand, especially the position of children who live in poverty. Thank you very much. Minister of Social Affairs for his introduction to the future budget discussion for the next five years. The nature of the matter is particularly in my mind that the lawsuit that attracts our children and has been shown me to be the object of the Minister of Ministers to be a spokesman for the group he has appointed to hold on to children's affairs and to shape their new course. I want to deal with the factors that make me much more upset. It's, for example. The report by Kolbeinn Stefánsson's son, published on February 28th, that he worked for the welfare department. It shows that about 10%±15% of Icelandic children live in various economic difficulties, including poverty. UNICEF published his report by the end of January 2016. It shows that 9.1% of Icelandic children suffer from varying degrees of lack, 77,000 children with very little lack, and 1,536 children live in very poor poverty. I'm asking the highest. Secretary of the first round: Will looks good, but are we doing enough now, chief. Minister of child care, in stamping out poverty? It is said to extend the birthworm by one month and to raise the child's request. How does it eliminate the poverty of children in Iceland, even though it is a good thing in that direction?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u132	A respectable president. First, I'm going to answer the question, are we doing enough? No, we're never doing enough, and we always have to do more. Still, a huge step is taking in that direction. The birthworm, both the prolongation and the changes in the birthworm system, are one of the factors that include Sir Kolbeinn Stefánsson, in his report, introduced the need for action in order to strengthen the child's position. In connection with this, we have also published a full reevaluation of the baby's orbs that will be seen. to strengthen the position of children living in homes that do not have much in their hands. Then we have a view of matters that are involved in changing the improvement system so that they can be more effective, especially after the report by Kolbeinn Francis the son of Stefánsson. It identified specific factors, including those that turn. that housing improvements and how to make changes in this support system help to reach this group of children. At the same time, it is extremely important that we regularly get numbers about it. Hv. A senator quotes the 2016 UNICEF report, but a new report is coming from them. I think it's very important to have her, and she's even. won because the government decided that we wanted to get an additional report. We want to know about the situation regularly, what the situation of children who live in poverty, because we want to reduce poverty. We need regular results, and I thought it most natural that such a report was submitted at least every two years, if not every year. The report is now being prepared because the government specifically requested it and put money on it, otherwise it would not have been done until later. But we're never doing enough. Every child living in poverty is too much.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u133	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Then I'd like to ask: Has not approached his Ministry, and even then his initiative, to cooperate with rural society, e.g. Reykjavík and others who need to, and cancel the preschool fees of blue parents or school meals of blue - poor parents in basic schools and students and see how the system has worked, if we want to look a little closer, by to form our neighbors in Denmark? There are various things we can do to cope with poverty. We view feelings of distress, insecurity, depression, self - injury of children. We know that more than 1,000 children have stopped attending elementary school, and the situation has never been so bad. The question is also about what kind of family policy we really are when we face up to as negative social developments as we see them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u134	A respectable president. Yes, they've come up and they're having a conversation. For example, a good conversation between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the European Union is about how to make changes in the birthworm system. Of course, it is difficult to maintain the status of children who live in poverty when it comes to school, schooling, and leisure activities. That's what the rurals have to do with it. But there's a conversation going on, including... in the management group of children about how to make changes and how to get our farm members to work, a job that was set in motion. followed by the report of Kolbeinn Francis the son of Stefánsson. But we have to keep our communities with us in that work, and that means that we need to talk to them. I hope that we will be able to bring operations in cooperation with our rural society and other departments to improve the situation of children living in poverty.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u135	V.E.G. President. Regarding the elderly and their job participation, the government in this program on page 404, with the permission of a president: To ensure that the primary objective of the work is met, it is emphasized that the elderly will have flexible retirements enabled them to work longer, thereby increasing their job-related pension rights and special pensions. There is also the importance of increasing the work of those who have already taken a pension. It is also important to improve the status of elderly people living in Iceland who have earned little or no social security rights in this country due to foreign living. So many were words. But what does the government do? Yes, it cuts everything elderly ones earn over the hundred thousand. The government does not trust to agree with the Middle Class proposal that employment does not reduce pension income income income income, i.e. That men may be free to earn bread of their lives without dribbling their pensions. What will the government do to improve the employment of older ones? The government has not relied on them to agree on the Central Party bill that if they wish to work until 73 years of age, public employees can and can. The two things the government can do right away. Instead of saying a word that she is not going to fulfill, clearly she can agree with us middle - class members right now and correct this injustice right now. Now I'm going to ask the highest. Minister: Is he and the government willing to contribute to the Central Party bill to win, if they want to and vote, until age 73? Is he willing to assume that pension money doesn't interfere with employment?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u136	A respectable president. Before answering the question, it's okay. A senator specifically suggested that the government favors action to support those who have not earned the rights of the system here. In my history, I was enlightened to work on such a bill has begun. I hope we can get it behind the work of an appointed staff. Work was done in good cooperation and agreement with the older citizen's National Association and decided to take this group in particular at first. Work on it has begun. I met with an older citizen's national relationship this morning as we were reviewing the situation on that bill show. It continued to be the understanding of both parties, both the government and the older citizen's Union, that then we would review the state of the next tenth above, which is the second and third largest income share of the tithe. We are now forming a good partnership with the older citizen's National Association in what way that work will be attacked. This is the priorities the government operates on. Working well with the older citizens of the United States on these matters. Since then, of course, we have worked out the suggestions offered in a working group. A senator, in fact, was not a member of the current political party, was a member of the advance party before he joined the Middle Party. It is such a joy that the suggestions made there have improved the interest of older citizens. It shows a new VAT model. So we've only been working on the proposals made there but we agree with it and we're talking about it with older citizens on the matter of priorities for the lowest income groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u137	V.E.G. President. I repeat my questions, and I want their answers. Is a minister willing to express support that elderly ones can earn money without detracting their pension income? And is there a minister to support a bill that allows government workers to work until 73 years of age? But there is something else. For this reason, a minister has been talking about the ability to work and to discuss discussions with the Quantum Community. At one time, during the New Year's season, we pointed out that it was unjust to hang these 1,100 million people to put aside poor people's ability to work. The despondency puts it this way on its own website, with permission of the highest power. President: ▪ The current government insists on this unjust impairment, to a dollar - a dollar that will hardly be called mere systematic violence, to be taken away only if the U.S.A. agrees to adopt a so - called work performance estimate and to add a hug to the new tax reform system. Overcoming injustice is not a topic to discuss. [[The president calls.]] The question is, chief. Minister: Why wasn't the 1,100 million immediately made into disability at the end of the year? What should be the point of microchiping a straitjacket - or, like looking into a gun barrel, of either agreeing to a workout or not getting a quirk correction? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u138	The president reminds the senators to give a speech lesson. This bell was offered to Felstein, Sæmundsson of Seymund, a Middle Classman.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u139	A respectable president. Regarding the first question: If this bill comes to a vote, it will not go unnoticed. A senator like the man standing here votes. This is now the advantage of the many senators'matters, which are presented here, that when they come to a decision, they will have a problem. A senator how he stands, or others, vote. It's only natural, if this is a case in progress at the council, that it gets its turn, goes into committees, and goes on a narrative process, and then it comes in here and gets a political discussion. That is when the senators and ministers are faced with votes, and then there will be a sharp start. A senator sees how the person standing here votes. With regard to the last budget discussion, I would like to point out that the project ahead is: If we fail to reduce the rate of disability, the financial resources that go to this category will range from 42 billion 2016 to 90 billion in 2030. The fact makes it necessary for us to achieve system changes that reduce the incidence of disability. That's government policy. [[The president calls.]] After it, there is no threat - and there is no threat. This is just the case, and it has been done from the time that the government's exercise of government was written. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u140	Mr. President. There is no particularly long chapter on the issues of disabled persons in the financial program we address here, such as it is normal, for the State in its time wrote to the rural communities to accept, in fact, the general and specific services of their seminary. It seems fun that I was in rural management at the time of that conversation between state and country society, and I had serious doubts about the decision of the local community to accept the category. This was not because I had faith in the ability of my community to perform better service than the State, but because, in view of my experience, I feared that the State would start to reduce donations to the countryside and that they would be left with the bill. Unfortunately, it seems that it is happening right now and that the European Union's Commission has told a fellow minister and the government has betrayed the trust of the Union in a very serious way, but in a financial program a $3.3 billion decrease in donations to the SEC over the next two years is expected. Mr. President. It is clear that this will affect the service of disabled people, a major contribution to an equation fund to finance some of the services of disabled persons. Supports the highest. Social Affairs minister of this cutdown on donations for an equation fund and thus cutting down services to disabled people? And does a minister think that this is a good introduction to the Ministry's conversation with the rurals about taking control of the elderly or about daycare at 12 months of age?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u141	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this good question. It is true that the chapter is not long in terms of disabled people's affairs because, after the group moved, they are largely saved from social services. Regarding the financial resources there and whether the person here is supporting a financial agenda: Of course, the person here is supporting a financial agenda. If she wasn't, she wouldn't have left the government. This is the government document, and everyone supports it. But I share their concerns with them. A senator generally derives from funding services to disabled persons. It is clear that the expense change is not changing. We're not making any changes in her. But in general, with regard to the funding of this service, we have a considerable distance in support of government and rural relations with not only funding but also the various regulations and changes in them and the new legislation that we agreed on at the council in the last year - and regulations, a great many, as follows. Here are things that will need to change and things that are vague and inexplicable, as is happening. So it's quite a long way to the country, I think, that we're going to discuss moving a group of elderly people to a community. Of course, it plays some part into capital but also only I think this project, to transfer the case of the disabled over, is bigger and more, and needs more time. Is there any suggestion there that there is any conversation between the Department of Social Affairs to bridge the gap? Well, we've had a very good conversation, and we've been working with the European Union, and we talked about it. to your relationship at a regular meeting last week and a month ago. So I haven't found it to spoil it. [[The president calls.]] But it is clear that this does not have a positive effect in the general relationship with the government. There is no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u142	President. Thank you very much. A minister for the answer, and he is happy to hear that he seems to agree with me about concern over the relationship between the state and the country. To the workforce. The future vision, aims, and measures of Article 30.1 bear clear evidence that in recent years, professional conditions have been truly good. Which is great. The aims and projects primarily to counteract long - term non-employment and workforce, of course, are very important projects. However, at this point in the text of the programme, unemployment appears to be increasing, and there is clear evidence of the cooling of the economy. Of course, we all hope that it will not be bad, but in view of how badly the government seems to have been in a number of cases lately, I'm concerned that the changes in employment conditions in the programme are not expected in the Ministry's work that unemployment is increasing and that the possible changes in employment standards have not been made. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u143	A respectable president. Yes, I agree with what. A senator's lack of employment indicates that he is slowing down and getting cold, and he has been doing so for quite some time. We've been aware of that, and the whole government has been overcoming these issues. That is why I, in particular, was able to here in my own short story that it would be right to say that money from unemployment benefits would not be included in this, because they are not part of a policy-making budget of state funds. On the other hand, we are very aware of the changes in the workforce and have already begun to see that payment, including I'm starting to go up. You can expect further increases there to be. Of course, all are very closely aware of the progress they are making in the tourism business and how it may have effects because it can affect the income of a state fund and the impact on unemployment. But how difficult it is when we have the time when we are going to put up a financial plan other than just to take it the way it is then and then. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then, if changes occur, we will work with them. But we woke it up very well.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u144	President. I'd like to talk to you about birthworm too at the highest. Minister. A recent report on the welfare of children's poverty revealed that children of single parents were in a very delicate position. Now is the time to extend the happy birthworm, but no consideration seems to be given to children who have only one interested parent, want, or ability to nurture it. If we examine the United Nations Children's Covenant and the emphasis we add to the rights of children, and if we take into account the importance of having time with our parents or parents in situations that both parents are not there, it should be quite clear that the birth certificate is too important to focus on the child's needs, i.e. A valuable, stress - free time with parents, or a parent, in order to ensure healthy maturity. The time is severely reduced, as is the case today, especially when it comes to single parents, since the child may receive only six months with his parent instead of nine, like the children whose parents have two parents. Now it is to extend the time that children spend with their parents to 10 months next year and at last 12 months in 2024, while children with only one parent, because of the parent's apathy or impotence, will have only six months in the next year, and eventually seven months in 2024 with this parent. I can't see that this is the most vulnerable group of parents and children here, i.e. children of single parents It is not enough for children to have only six or seven months with their parents. I'm asking how to get to the top. Ministers are thinking this over. Is it somehow a parent's job to get his own powder, and is it really for the child's best? Or do these children just have my right to time with their parents? ' I can't see that this plan to split birthworm is compatible with the child protection principles that the Minister has spoken for unless there's something I don't know about and wait for. Minister to inform me. [[The president calls.]] But is a minister open to study ways to equalize the right child with only one parent? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u145	A respectable president. We're here discussing a financial programme and securing budgets for a particular time. It assumes, like a cod. A senator points out that there will be an extension of birthworm between 2020 and 2021. It is clear that current orballation legislation, placed at the core of the year 2000 and is, therefore, 20 years old next year, requires a review. Therefore, in conjunction with this increase, we plan to re-evaluate it on this legislation on the anniversary of the year next year because this legislation was in its time, when it was established, one of the world's most progressive obstetrical legislation. I think that we in general can be very proud of having guaranteed this right to parents. But there are aspects of it that need attention. A senator here mentions the state of single - parent families. Also, if you are not in a job market or are in school and then you have children and your birthworm system does not grab you, and you may not also have the right to your birth strength, etc. Since then, comments from the U.S. Marshal's agent have been made on a certain point, so I think there is good reason for an overall reexamination of the legislation. It is our goal to do so. In addition to making contributions on this financial program, we planned to appoint a spring - day group with the main stakeholders who will review all the issues presented in these legislation, which, in many respects, have been able to endure the passing of time despite the needs of adjustments. It's my answer to a senator's question that we're taking all these points in, and I hope that next year we can introduce a whole set of legislation where we're going over a certain point. If so, what it is inside must be revealed. [[The president calls.]] But clearly, this is a good point. One candidate brings up one of the factors that lie on in that overall review.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u146	President. I had a conversation with the highest. Prior to this day, the health minister of thebbreviated work week. Was it a conversation with increasing loneliness among the elderly, increased burden of disease, and the increasing failure of younger generations in modern society, the stress that seems to be a new norm in which families spend too much time working instead of caring for family, friends, and material things. What we should be doing with this financial program is laying the groundwork for securing people's economic rights, investing in individuals, and allowing them to get out of their daily activities, stop and ask what is most important in this life, and granting them freedom to do more of it, and the shortness of the work week is one step in this process. V.E.G. A health minister accepted the importance of considering the problems overall and seeing the potential for the benefits that the workweek might include society. My question to the highest. A social minister is: Does he share that vision?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u147	A respectable president. Yes, I share in the vision that it is of utmost importance that we consider more closely the basics of human life and that the workweek is one of the factors that really matter. So we've been running some experimental projects aimed at shortening the work week in public institutions. It has such research and research projects now involved in four federal institutions and is expected to be presented on spring. This is also one of the conditions in conversation with BSRB and BHM regarding the possible access to collective agreements. However, regarding contracts of a general labour market, it has been observed that this is one of the points discussed by both employment organizations and trade unions. But the government has been preparing for this experiment, and we have, in fact, an experiment. By means of money, you can have all kinds of work in there. [[The president calls.]] So I think that this is clearly one of the most important things, and I share that vision with the highest degree. Secretary of health.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u148	Mr. President. I'm going to start with the first round taking the ball with regard to the maternity orcs and stocks. At the end of the year, it will take steps to raise the maximum pay from the birth ordinary reserve to 600,000 bucks. That's a good thing. The fact is, however, that if you look at the amount of money that was the maximum payment from the cut date of January 1, 2009, 400,000 K, and that is calculated compared to pay development, that would be a normal amount from that amount of 720,000, to make a difference of 20%. Therefore, I would like to ask a minister if the government had that in mind, if it were to find a place in the budget that she had in mind, to link these maximum pay or payments from the birth holiday fund with the index value of pay. Then I want to ask the highest. Minister on the length of the birth serpent, this goal is to go up to 12 months, which is very positive. I wondered, then, that the government's interaction with the rural communities is being said, in the aim of the program that children will be offered a stay in preschool at 12 months of age: Has there been a conversation with the local government level on how this will be carried out? I may specifically ask that now it has been introduced that the government's intention is to freeze payment in an equation fund, so that the money does not come from there. There's also a lot of people at the U.S. gymnasium. The pay paid especially for women's classes is the case in particular. All of these are matters that come under the emphasis of the welfare minister. I ask: How do the Minister intends to achieve these good goals?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u149	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. In the case of a rise in combustion, it is clear that this has not been associated with prices. That's why we've been taking steps up to 600,000. It is not expected in the current financial programme that this is linked to the index of pay, so independent decisions need to be made to raise the budget or to process financial programmes at one time. The last financial program began to raise to 600,000, which was 80,000 dollars. increase. In the current financial programme, we are taking the important step of attacking this extension over the next two years, one month next year, and two on the next one, so who knows that in the next financial programme, we will take further steps. However, we need to monitor the development of birthworm rights and things. However, I think it is equally important to examine the most income - dependent groups taking a birthworm and to see if there is any reason to increase the proportion to which they are paid in maternity, and to obtain a higher proportion than those who are busier. This would be very familiar with the recent report by Kolbeinn Francis Stefánsson regarding children who live in poverty. Regarding the prolongation of the birthor and the political desire, I have had a conversation and a regular meeting with the Icelandic community, trying to meet with them at least once a month. We have recently been able to discuss how we can work together on projects aimed at extending ordinarily and what may be needed. That conversation is just going on and there's no landing or result in it. But I know that the relationship has been to provide data and information from rural society because it's very variable between rural society. Some societies have already taken this step. Others have planned it, as long as communities have not decided to take this step.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u150	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. For what he originally said, that there was not necessarily an increase in the maximum payment, it is certainly true and true that it can be a fine payback. I hope it doesn't forget in the thought that this is a very important equality thing, and this is in order to improve the work of women, and in this case, research shows that it is especially important that the roof go up. But I just want to talk about economic prospects. The latest forecasts of a recession and a sharp difference between the predictions and the predictions of the financial agenda. Now, in spite of optimism at the strategy, I believe that the minister of this great budget class has plan B, if it were necessary to revise the expenses. His priorities were a very difficult task for him. It has also been shown in our discussion today that the needs of disability are not financed in the financial programme, so I want to use this opportunity to ask the highest level. Ministers in view of the possibility that this forecast will not work, the economic forecast based on the plan: Do Ministers trust themselves to defend the planned growth and reform of disability if possible? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u151	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen still in speaking class.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u152	A respectable president. To get to the bottom of my birthday vacation talk, I agree with what I'm talking about. A senator says that raising the roof is certainly an equal action. I'm sorry. If our wages were smoother and we didn't have that much money between the sexes, it wouldn't be the procedure we needed. Unfortunately, it is. As I said before, we're watching it, but it's a need and a good tip from the head. Senator. With regard to the planning and the economic news, economic development and so forth, we're always paying attention to it and watching how it can affect the financial resources of the state. I'm not going to say at this point that if this happens or the other thing, I'll do this or that. It's just gonna have to be seen. But the project is the same, i.e. defending the status of the lowest groups of society and trying to achieve social reform. [[The president calls.]] In recent years, we have seen an enormous increase in this group of subjects, and hopefully we can continue to do so. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But there must be time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u153	A respectable president. We're talking financial plans in the future at the highest level. societal minister who initially said that there were over 500 million earmarks marked 2020 for their housing impairments. It tells me that this coin is an earmark for those who have no foreign rights and are known to have about 250 individuals in the U.S. National Insurance Institute. It tells me that they should not be paid until first of January 1, 2020, although it is known exactly who they are and could be started right now. It was found at a committee that it had begun with the incidence of disability. It was then taken back, it would be wrong, it wouldn't be doing it. I'd like an answer from a minister to why in the world it's getting so slow because it's supposed to be very easy to make sure it's done. Then there's the other thing, what's not in the financial program, that's correction to micro- and older citizens. Everyone has received corrections that resulted from the collapse of his salary, the senators, the ministers, and the public staff not only, but also the correcting of his time, months, years, and years, while desperate and older citizens have always been left behind. Clearly, this government budget does not calculate in any way that this will be corrected. And why not? Why is this class needed? Why do older citizens and poor people need to sit on their own and not be corrected? They live only with impairment, which has resulted in today's disability being far behind the job. I can't imagine being an invalid is any better than being out of work. Why, on the other hand, are unemployed more desirable than microorganism? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u154	A respectable president. Yes, there are 500 million before 2020 in financial programs to cope with the poor farms. I'd like to say, though, that it's only money in this year but not the years that follow because people don't know exactly what the amount is. I assume that before we set up a budget plan next year, there will be a definitive calculation of all of these groups so that the correct figure can be entered 2021 and 2022. Hv. A senator asks why it is not budgeted in the current year, but it puts funding in the budget of 2020 to cope with this. The answer is that this is the first session we will discuss in terms of budgeting since this was actually ahead, so we would be ready to do so and have received this operation plan from an insurance agency. We haven't discussed any bill on budgets before 2019. However, we are in a conversation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, as found at an open meeting on a welfare committee, on the basis of permission to start in 2019, whether it is contained in funds or if there is a possibility of a budget or something like that. We are in a conversation now with the Ministry of finance to determine if it is not possible to start in 2019. I think it would be very important for us to do that. At any rate, the budget for 2020 is clear. I would point out that if the government, the government, had decided to take the step of saying to humans: The opinion of the Allied agent is irrelevant. You just have to go to court, which was certainly an option, we wouldn't even be talking about doing this 2020. We are just trying to get our feet in the frame of law that is created around the budget and that we try to do it as fast as possible. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I hope we can make this quick. [[The president calls.]] But at least it'll be in the budget of 2020.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u155	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. But, of course, it doesn't make sense because they already admit it, they're gonna pay for it, they're supposed to pay for it. There is nothing to say to people: You wait until we please. An agent returned last June. Then there's another in this financial program, it seems, from 2020-2024, the annual increase in disability will be only about 3%, saying, on either side of inflation at any given time. Is that true? Should nothing be raised but the right price, not follow the pay sheet or anything as it has always been? There's always more increase according to a pay number than insurance. It always uses what is inferior for the poor and the elderly. [[The president calls.]] Why don't we use the other?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u156	A respectable president. Yes, it is true that the U.S. Marshal has spoken in this case, and we have agreed with his opinion. However, an agent also says that this is a very blurred law that needs further explanation, and we have announced that there is a bill on the way to explain this better. That's what they say. A senator that the government has a legal obligation to do this. The government also has laws to keep within the framework of the budget because financial laws are the highest law accepted. It's the most important law every time. And we have received clear instructions from the Ministry of finance as well as from the budgetary committee that we should remain in the budget. We're trying to get inside that box so we can speed it up. In terms of annual increases in biofuels, this percentage is expected in a financial programme and will work out, unless otherwise decided. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u157	A respectable president. The production of the Icelandic educational system is doing well with its five - year financial plan. The same is true of science, culture, and the media in the country. The Ministry of Education and Culture is the Ministry of Investors. The best way to improve the quality of life in Iceland is to ensure that people want to live here. In recent years, costs to the university have increased considerably, but from 2017 to this year, donations have increased by about 5.3 billion dollars, or less than 13%. The financial programme continues to invest in the country's university career, so in addition to recent years' rise, it is assumed that they will increase their contributions to university and research so that they will exceed 40 billion dollars. During the season, we're going to reach the OECD average. Investment in college is a key factor in increasing Iceland's competitiveness to the future in cooperation with professional life. A respectable president. The greatest challenge in Icelandic education is to improve the working environment and increase the number of teachers in education. It is strongly my opinion that teaching is the most important work in society, where it lays the foundation for all other jobs. The government's financial program contains financial measures that aim to increase the number of teachers. A good education system will not exist without a good teacher. Teachers are the foundation of the education system and the driving force for positive changes in school activities. Work on the global re-examination of the student loan system is going well, and I have announced that this fall will be the turn of the bill on the Icelandic loan fund. There I will contribute a significant system modification. The purpose of a new system is to study equality, to improve scholarship, to increase support for family members, and to increase effectiveness. There has been a significant change in the quality of the loan fund recently reflected and, last of all, in the number of credit recipients in the fund, over a seven-year period, a 52% decrease has been observed. During the past few years, government contributions have not been reduced and have clearly identified the funds provided. That was about 1 billion in 2013, but by the end of 2018, 15 billion are expected. Hence, the fund's position is good and therefore provides ideal conditions for a system modification to improve the quality of students. A respectable president. In recent years contributions to the university have also increased substantially. In 2017, contributions have taken from over 30 billion to over 35 billion. This is a 16% increase. During the period of the programme, this increase will remain inside the system and will continue to rise until 2023. Our primary goal at high school is first to increase the number of graduates from work and technical education, and secondly to reduce the elimination in high school, and finally to ensure the quality of study and training. At other levels, the aims are that at the end of high school, more seniors reached minimum reading goals, strengthen math and nature skills, and promote the production and production of school scholarships for school students. Education for everyone will continue to be the theme of the Icelandic education policy now being developed. A respectable president. We have been raising cultural contributions since 2017 when they were about 12 billion dollars. and in our plan, we expect it to be, on average, 15 billion each year. In the culture and to the media, we're even. expecting annual support for publication by 400 million. K. and to support the work environment of the individual media about 400 million. K. In addition, we put new $100 million in the institution of the new Icelandic Childhood Fund. There is also work to establish a children's and science collection to strengthen and strengthen the interest of the young generation. The emphasis on the language of the English government has become widely known, but recently I spoke for the 22 - part Synod arrangement to promote Icelandic language. A respectable president. The production of innovation, research and knowledge fields is increasing in late 2020 and will be used to further Iceland's competitiveness in research, knowledge, and innovation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u158	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the review. As shown in a financial program, gender differences in education are a real challenge in which some professions are closer to male and female classes. I wondered about the fourth industrial revolution in this regard and of what outcome the highest. Minister intends to seize. Very much. Ministers put increased funding to attract more girls or women at trade and technical education? And likewise: Does a minister envision to do the same with boys or men? Then I mean more than me being interested, even though I'm not minimizing it. But I also ask because it takes a lot to maintain a technical education and the question to me is whether governments are ready to follow it to the end. But I also wondered how much. A minister envisions reducing the elimination of high school students and the highest. A minister has developed an opinion as to what abbreviated high school has meant and especially toward students of foreign origin. I know there's a report coming, but I'll still take some information on that subject, since I think it's very important. I think it's very important that we only get a conversation about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u159	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for good questions. First to a national job, trade and to-do in the country. We have been watching the increase in industry from 12% to 16% in the last spring, which, of course, is a source of great joy. What we see, however, is the right thing to do. A senator, a considerable lower number of girls or young women go to school, and we are working to increase interest and further into the study. We've been setting priorities in the interests of professional and industrial education, which is extremely important because the figures are very different in Iceland, if we compare ourselves with Norway, where we watch that about 50% goes to accounting and 50% goes to work, industry, technology. It is clear that professional life calls for students and graduates from such articles. We've been in a great deal of cooperation in presentation and negotiations, e.g. About Micro:bit, factory, and many other things. The expenditures were dropped in the first few months of the current government, so we've been uplifting all of this and we'll continue. If we see that numbers do not continue to increase, i.e. typed students, then we'll take further action. Hv. A senator also asked about the elimination. We have now, just in the last few funds, been adding considerable support to students who need it, and that support went from 20 million to 60 million on one board. We are very aware of this and are also aware of the need to strengthen the environment of those with a different mother tongue. This support includes: into those students.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u160	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answer. I just want to take over where the minister ended. As part of improving education in the country and increasing the level of education in the nation, I understand reducing the elimination from high school. I still have that question in my head about raising a level of education, whether it means that everyone goes to a so - called university degree, or whether we're going to make it clear that a high school education, a master's degree, is equivalent, including an increase in education. It's this tiny little thing running around in my head. I see in financial planning that I have a special contribution to promote Icelandic education, and I like it very much. I'm asking you, is it in the entire high school of the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u161	A respectable president. We are very clear in this national budget for key goals and challenges. First, we want to increase the number of graduates from work and technology and to make very good list of the procedures we are taking. In the second place of the elimination process, we see that there is more in Iceland than there are in other parts of the North countries, although we have been able to reduce it, 44% has graduated at the scheduled time in high school at the end of 2018. We have done considerable research to see what has caused our children to disappear from high school. For example, it is to have faith in one's own ability and also in preparation for high school, it is of great importance. It's a matter of deciding whether or not the kids will leave high school. So we're promoting all co-operation with elementary and elementary school to reduce elimination.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u162	A respectable president. I'd like to use these minutes to ask the highest possible question. Ministers are slightly involved in contributions to the university level and, on the other hand, the cost of the new WIN system in 2021. During the five years, the increase in donations to the university is less than 1% on average. It is very unlikely that it will reach the average OECD that is discussed in the financial programme and that has been promised many times, and this will be expected to be an actual increase and increase the financial value of budgetary changes. These donations also contain money that should go to certain research and investments, so not everything goes directly into college. There is much more involved in the business to be competitive at school. At the present time, we are far behind the North countries in contributions to the university. I'd like to hear the highest. A minister will discuss how to fulfill promises of an average OECD in donations to the university. Second, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to plan a new loan system. Why is there a decrease in cost at this time in 2021? And an important question: Will the system be financed by higher interest rates on loans to students who will not enjoy scholarship?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u163	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these questions is directed toward the university level. First, I'd like to say that we're talking about an enormous increase in money running to the university. Hv. A senator asks about them and says that they probably won't be enough to reach the OECD average. We have very high expectations that the more money they raise will be sufficient. If they do not, we just need to step in. I've said this ministry is an investment agency. This will make a difference whether people want to live here. I'd also like to point out that there's been a considerable debate about whether we're just achieving this average or not. That's why we've increased cooperation with OECD. I just want OECD to join us to decide if we're getting it. Of course, we need to compare ourselves with other kingdoms and economic growth and how it is developing. We have the OECD numbers even before 1923, which I think is a little long time, and I think it's important to know, and I've wanted to inform the council if there's any chance we could make the average. That's why I'm telling you right here that we call together OECD to get it clear. With regard to the loan fund of Icelandic students, we are designing and creating a system that ensures that students always get the best government funds on the loan markets. If a government fund finances itself at 132 points, as it does today, students will enjoy it along with pressure of 0.5. If a government fund finances itself at 100 points, students will enjoy it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u164	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. It is of interest to me that the billions of contributions to culture and art fall during the period in question. It is not clear where you go when you read financial programs. It says, by permission of the President: The most important changes in the spending of the media are explained by an increase in demand in 2022, a change in sectoral income in 2020, and a change in distribution of donations for a financial project. Over the period, funding is expected to promote the museums and the professional artist's labour and project fund. In addition to the provisional contributions made for five years to Iceland's Children's Culture Fund, Could be the top. A minister will explain a little more clearly to me how there is a change in special income in 2020, and how this growing appeal will be made to show that the museums and funds of artists, which are certainly good? In other words, where will they be cut down?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u165	A respectable president. I'd like to come back to the loan. The new changes will be such that there will be 30% demolition on the head when students complete their scheduled study at the specified time and we will not apply exactly three years if people are completing a BA degree or a BS degree but a flexible study ending, three to four years. On the one hand, we are talking about the best interests of a government fund each time and also a process of delinquency. I'd also like to mention that our young people go much less in debt. Regarding culture, the grammatical project involves some of the reduction. We expect more special income from certain institutions. We are not taking any cuts, but we continue to increase the amount of money to culture. I must say that our support for publishing is of utmost importance to what we are doing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u166	V.E.G. President. I would like to express my joy with much at the top of my work. Minister. I may first want to focus on the engineering and industry and celebrate my new priorities. The minister to show in that it has become the first goal to increase the proportion of students who complete the field and technical education and that sex distribution will be more balanced. This is a very good goal. That's why I'd like to direct a few questions to the highest level. Minister. First mentioned the highest. Minister out of high school. Does the deduction count to some extent related to the small number of people attending a trade and occupational education? I know that the rate has increased, but it still seems that in our society today, students are directed into a student's study, both due to a view of industrial education as well as to those who are having some difficulty with further education after a test. I'd like to hear about it from her. Also, I'd like to ask about more flexibility in the system between schools and stairs, as shown in the bill I've submitted. Technology continues to progress, and our education system must not be left behind. The future progress will change. There will be a greater need for competitiveness and a challenge to maintain it, to re-educate and accessible studies in late life and in the workplace, and to provide a wide range of choices for those with different backgrounds. Finally, I'd like to hear about the student loan system, which is also related to the work and industry. A minister has talked about certain motivations for teachers about delinquency after studying at the right time. Is there anything in that bill about the student loan system that is related to their trade and to-do education, they get a study of deletion or this strength after they graduate? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u167	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the interest and labour it shows to promote the work, industry and occupation and technical education in Iceland. This is very important, because this is one of the major challenges and is one of the main subjects at high school because there is something we can do better. Hv. A senator asks if I think this has something to do with elimination. Yes, I believe it will. I think our children or young people can't even find themselves in the school system, and it's our job to draw attention to what is available. High school is very much available, but it is as if our children or young ones were not as well aware of it. Therefore, I have focused on the fact that the primary school schedule is fulfilled in these choices because it has not been done. We have to introduce this earlier. It's too late for me to start in grade 8 or 9. This has to happen a lot sooner. I've seen quite a bit of Norway because the Norwegians have done quite well in doing it with them, that is exactly what students learn. Hv. A senator also asked about the changes ahead of the student loan system. Now, those who attend work, trade, and technical studies can borrow at the high school, so I'm not, as the situation is today, that we will put further incentives in this regard. I think, rather, that it takes early to introduce what is available and to adjust your attitude so that young people choose to study rather than school.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u168	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister very much for those clear answers. Her language showed much good, and I agree with a lot of it. Then I'd like to turn my song into a cross and ask the highest. Secretary of the press. In discussions about the media position, many seem to shun the position that the Kingdom Radio has, how it exerts its influence, misplaces a competitive position, and so forth when discussing the status of free media. As far as I'm concerned, it will not be enough to stop into holes, even though there are certain foods that should not interfere with any way that the State Radio does. I know, as you can read about the budget, that there are no plans to change any specific points about the State Radio. But I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Does she feel that it is wise to act in some way in a russian way? Then I mean, like... to take it out of a commercial market and put money and total income on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u169	A respectable president. I'd like to mention it, too, and explain to you that all studies that are fortunate, I mean industrial, occupational, technical, that the relevant people will have a breakdown of 30%. There is really a tremendous incentive in high school. Just to explain it better. As for the media, we are at a critical point, and this applies not only to the media in Iceland but to the world around us because of technological advancements and other factors. Now we are taking the first step in supporting the private media. I've always seen it so that it's necessary to take a step. I find it very important that if we are going to take some steps with the Kingdom News, they will not be in a position to limit their service to a degree. We'll put it, as I understand it, less funding for our state radio than we'll ever do in the other states. [[The president calls.]] I don't see a change in that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u170	A respectable president. I'm disappointed up here, I'm gonna have to be honest, because as I've studied in talks in the past few months, I looked forward to a review of the General's statement on digital production of financial plans. Unfortunately, there is only one sign in one place, as this is the shared responsibility of the Ministry of Employment and the Ministry of Education. It says that digital architecture will be developed over the course of 2020 ◯022, over three years. Digital carpenters are very well organized and defined tasks. There is no need for digital architecture to be shaped; they are ready to be started. There's no more creation. More work can be taken to add, as has been done in most places, e.g. in the local school of Reykjavík, where studios and objects have been added, a very nice project. But here we are after the Allied Congress agreed on a digital design plan and not enough on it. Instead, it added the committee to its original interpretation, better than I dared hope when I submitted that plan. She added a definition that digital carpenters should reach basic schools. As I would say, I was disappointed not to see any further evidence of the continuation of that convolutation in a financial program and would like to ask a minister why it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u171	A respectable president. Me and what. A senator argues with digital carpenters. I'd like to state that even if they're not in the high school phase, that doesn't mean we don't put money in them. It is a plan, and very much that we do not specifically mention in the budget, which is still financed. Like what? A senator likely notices that high school is a very well - financed phase. We watched four - year - to - three - year - long high school shorter, but we continue to increase our money in high school. I think of it as a minister of education and culture that we look at it to increase knowledge and put more money in technical fields, digital carpenters, industrial and professional studies, because it's where we have to do better. I reiterate that even if digital carpenters are not included in a national financial programme, they are not put into it. I have been working hard to visit digital carpenters, knowing that they are very popular and well - mannered, and in a way that increases interest in innovation and technology. I think that's what we're talking about. Hence, a senator does not have to be disappointed, even if it is not mentioned. I understand the comment, however, and I want to take her into consideration. We will introduce funding to the year 2020, and then we will see better and more accurate interpretations of each school level.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u172	A respectable president. Then I'll be disappointed in another way, in a formal way that I've talked about most financial plans. Government policies are to be set aside for five years, and the major cost changes, costs, and cost estimates are to be outlined in the measures taken. But like the highest. A minister does not mention a certain cost. You may not be able to go to complete detail, but this is the policy on which funds are based. In the financial and financial contributions, we are expected to see evidence of the implementation of financial programs. There is nothing to be surprised about in the budget, considering what is presented in a financial program. I say again that I look forward to seeing the emphasis and the funds needed in the structure of a digital carpenter - then in the law - and still complain about the horrors of a poor financial plan. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u173	A respectable president. Now I'm going to disagree. A senator who says: A considerable amount of work has been put into the budget and in setting priorities. With regard to high school, it is obvious that our goals are very ambitious. We'd like to increase the number of graduates from field and technical studies, and we'd like to set aside the priority of money in that direction. We're sending the message that we want to see more money in there to form digital carpenters. We'll see, too, huh? Senator, we leave 30 billion dollars. In 2017, 35 billion dollars. during this period, although the study has been shortened. There is room in high school to improve the quality of those factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u174	Mr. President. There's a lot of things to take from the secretary's section of a financial program, but I want to stop at the only number that I thought was somewhat striking, which is the fact that students' loan fund has decreased by 52% in the past seven years at the same time and that there has been a steady growth in the university system. The number of students has increased at the same time. It's not a healthy system. Every man sees that there's a need for action. Hence, all of us must be glad that, as the minister entered his opening business, at last we will be able to gain a improved loan system. However, I would like to reflect on the unusual situation we are in regarding the loans already involved in this transition. It is the means by which the fund has the means to soften the rate of change for the state's funds. Part of that will be used, as the financial program shows. But I'd like to ask myself, " Could I look at a point that the League of college has suggested? ' They offer suggestions for four things that could be changed into the system that is long - standing. One is that the responsible system, restored to self - responsibilities on student loans taken in 2009. It would likely be a bookable thing that would go beyond the loan of some kind of financial loan. Has the minister looked at the possibility as another way to activate the vast wealth that lies in the student's loan fund?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u175	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. There has been a striking decrease in the number of loan recipients at the Icelandic loan fund. Let me mention some of the factors that I think matter. I think that just because high school has been shortened, young people live longer at home with their parents. Second, I think housing situation in the capital area also caused young people to stay at home. And then third, which I think is very important, there are people who have been paying off their loans, of course, working for 12 months and are paid for 11 months. I think the fact is that a lot of parents simply encourage their children not to borrow from their loans, and they stay at home longer. I don't think it's a positive development. Thus, rather than borrowing students with children, we have a complete system change in the water that aims to give strength to children. And to tell you what. We are also looking at the responsible system. That is not the conclusion. Of course, it is a good thing to make such changes because of this trend and because we have put in a large amount of money that has made much money. I mention, for example, that a couple who complete their studies, say medicine, 30, 31, 34 years old, would probably owe twice as much in the new system, really get it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u176	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the answers, and I have to say that the changes announced to the LAIN sound very positive. But it all depends on how we can manage it. Therefore, it is good to see that this has been done in close cooperation with the student movement and in more detail than in recent years. Let's just keep going, both inside and when it comes to the council. The minister here mentioned the kids' loans. Then I think of the Eurostdent numbers referred to in the financial programme showing the unique status of the Icelandic student group. I want to hear only about how we can strengthen the worldwide dimension, since there is also a special situation. Our students may not be attending to foreign schools enough, and this may be especially true of teachers, for this could enrich the future schools. Then I'd like to ask you just in the end about one of the most advanced projects in recent years in Iceland, the House of Iceland. [[The president calls.]] What time line do we see there? Because all I'm seeing in the plan is that it's going to be gated again because of a predictable delay.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u177	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator said there are a number of parishes that have to do with the teachers. The government has been introducing a very decisive operation to support teachers. I believe this is a procedure where for the first time it is based on a so-called prognostications, i.e. that we know what the situation is today, and we know that if nothing has to be done, there will be an Icelandic community of teachers in 2032. We have clear goals on how we are going to take those actions. I agree that with my increased interest in teaching, we will see more people taking turns and attending foreign studies. I hope so. Hv. A senator also asked about Husalian. We received an offer that was quite over the cost limit. I feel responsible at this point to consider the situation better and then make a decision. [[The president calls.]] I believe, however, that if there's a recession in the economy, it's not necessarily a message that we're going to cut the sails completely.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u178	Mr. President. V.E.G. The Minister of Education and I have in common to have the most beneficial occupational, pain and technology in mind, and the minister has been tireless of speaking to that class. In some respects, I feel that there is an old - fashioned theme that has been played for decades to try to interest young people and attract them to these studies. I'm sorry, as we know, it's yielded tragicly low results. I miss a little bit of a little bit about not seeing more ambition in the plan that's being dealt with making engineering, training, a first-class education. There are no goals to make it a high level of study. There are no goals for the quality of the house, for the study to be first class, for equipment is first - rated, for teaching is being tried at these levels of the most qualified teachers. I think it is empty to talk about achieving the results that we all want if we don't have them so that all of this study is exemplary. She's not, unfortunately, with us today. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister of Education to see if I can overlook anything in the plan or if it really is so that there are no actual steps in this situation. It is not enough to introduce and encourage study if it is not clear at work and everyone sees that study is being referred to in the best possible circumstances and has a proper respect for it. It's real.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u179	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this question. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator must consider that we are greatly increasing money into high school. And what? A senator also sees that our first goal at high school is just to increase the number of graduates from the field and technology. We've been aiming it at the shoes and working with them on the stock costs, i.e. to improve equipment and improve the quality of high school facilities, making use of these extra funds to do just that. Even if the plan does not reveal exactly what is being done - these are the broad lines that come up there and priorities and in what we put the money on, that doesn't mean we're not going to offer a first-class study that I think is being done. I think what needs to be done is that largely improved cooperation between high school and high school so that students can better understand what is available and what the program is. Of course, we are considering a first - class environment for our teachers and are sending a tremendous clear signal with that action. The teacher bill that enters the council in the next few days points to the fact that with this only permission letter, there is more movement between the playing, basal, and high school levels. So we're certainly building a first-class study for jobs, industry and projects in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u180	Thank you very much. Minister for. So I cannot help but look forward to seeing the future funds to find this place. I don't think there's room within this schedule to take real steps and to be needed in these matters. One language I've had at the top of my speech. A minister is the workforce fund. For the next four years, I think it's a rather old goal to consider the role of a workforce. Don't you want to put it in? Or should he continue to be examined by unchanged means? I think it's very important to promote it because one part of being able to complete industrial education is getting into the job. [[The president calls.]] It's a big deal, and I'm praying. Minister to inform me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u181	A respectable president. Of course, what we've been doing about the work, industry, to-do, and technology articles has been taking care that the shortening of the high school stage does not lead to a decrease in driving budget. With this clear policy presented in the national financial programme - and I further remind you that the first goal is to increase the number of graduates of the high school phase from work and technology - that we are pointing to the high school stage of setting priorities further in the situation, the workforce, and so on. It is clear what governments want in this and what the economy calls for. There's a demand for graduates. [[The president calls.]] I believe that such priorities have not been made as clearly as before.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u182	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister of education for good advice on financial matters for the next five years. I'd like to commend her for a lot of things, and there's a lot of good things there, and I need, and as I look at it, she's obviously doing her best. Of course, you can't do everything at once, but I'm particularly concerned about the elimination of over 1,000 high school students who don't turn to school. I am extremely concerned about self-harming youths. I am deeply worried about feelings of distress, anxiety. I am deeply concerned about the poverty of children in elementary schools. These are all the major factors I think, even though we've already discussed with the social and child - care minister, that could be heard below the highest level. Secretary of education in cooperation with and with local society's will. When we talk about our children's feelings of distress and unhappiness and see a strange negative trend, I want to point out that we have laws - I am very happy - about the group's activities. As with him, it's valid, e.g. Law No. 75/1985, about financial support for music school. Then there is a music school in cooperation with high school communities. I often feel overlooked by the root of our children, as soon as they begin their schooling. Is it not possible to work on making it available to all children, away from the economy, to learn a musical instrument?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u183	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing up the matter of these and the points she is concerned about in Icelandic school. First, I'm going to talk about well - being or feeling unwell. When we compare ourselves with other countries, about 90% of students in Icelandic school are well - off and 80% of them have great confidence in their teacher. These are very good numbers. However, there are 10% who do not feel well and are not unlikely - I don't think it's dangerous to mention it here -- that these are the same kids who don't feel in the school system and are more likely to disappear from high school. What we are doing is, first of all, promoting support to them high school students, for it is under me, in a remarkablely decisive way, as I mentioned earlier, by leaving 20 million to 60 million. We used the financial space just in behalf of those we feel are most needed. The priority order is clear. I'd like to agree too with what. A senator on access to leisure activities to make music or sports, that it is of utmost importance that we have as good and as equal access as possible. It is evident that children who are involved in sports or music are less likely to leave school and are also more successful in learning. I agree with what. A senator for this to be a major factor, and we at the Ministry of Education and Culture are taking part in strengthening these factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u184	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for. How satisfying it is to hear that our children are so happy at school - 90%! I'd love to know what this means for and how it's found out. It's certainly been said that it hasn't, especially when we know that 101.75% of children live in poverty according to a report e.g. Kolbeinn Francis the son of Stefánsson. It's true as the highest. According to the minister of education, it is of utmost importance that our children, whether sports or music, have the opportunity to pursue leisure activities and find things that are suitable for them from the economy. It makes me very happy if the Ministry of Education and Culture is really getting along with the rurals trying to keep up with all the discrimination.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u185	A respectable president. The conclusions I quoted can be found in a study conducted at the University of Iceland by dawn. I loved that it was the result, but it doesn't change that there's a group, about 10% of children, that might feel better. Of course, we need to pay attention to him. As Minister of Education and Culture, I work to promote psychology for high school students in cooperation with the social and child - care minister and health minister. It also involves promoting health care in the whole country, in order to increase access to such services. However, even if about 90% are comfortable in our school system, there is an increase in those who are not feeling well. That's a concern, I agree with that. It has something to do with it. has been mentioned, that there is simply an increased comparison into our system in connection with social media. [[The president calls.]] We must consider it in a very responsible and upbuilding way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u186	V.E.G. President. I want to say the highest words. A minister who says that it is not dangerous to take up the discussion earlier. Rather, it is necessary to take it and to respond to it. Studies in education need to be drawn more individuals. At preschool, we face the challenge of having more men, at high school, even the same challenge as having more people who want to specialize in science, technology, and industry. In high school, we face challenges similar to those faced in high school. I rejoice that activities for industrial purposes have been announced, especially since they are younger in school. I know it's often between high school and high school. I hear we've started a conversation about going down to the elementary school to get interested. I noticed that a minister said that young people should choose a course rather than a school choice. I like that very much. My questions are more important than the highest. A minister will attract more people who want to study the fields of trade and technology at the university. I'd also like to say in the context that I believe that one letter of permission would certainly help you to see that you could then choose more fully. I also welcome the production of electronic journals. [[The president calls.]] They may even be used within the medical system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u187	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. One of the main covariates we were doing last year was to try to see what the main covariates were, i.e. How we could explain that there are far more articles in these articles to form in Norway and in the country. There are three things that merit attention, and we are working on. First of all, there is great cooperation between high school and high school. The basic school often has a very good access to high school, and the equipment there, and the kids can keep testing. It's quite early in high school. The articles are open, and students can look at what is available. Second, the elementary school is a diligent student of the school program and is very active at previous levels. Third, much emphasis is placed on presenting what is available to parents, especially mothers, since mothers have, studies, and a lot about what is chosen. We see the ratio of those who have adopted this methodology. I mention to create a Faraway settlement, where I understand that the proportion of people going to trade will be about 33%. These are all different numbers than we see in other parts of the country. Then, of course, we'll work with the factors I mentioned. We've had considerable cooperation with industrial industry and industrial organizations in this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u188	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much. It is happy that there are others in the region who attend their trade. I know this loosely from the East Academy of Education, and I have truly observed it at the Academy of Education in Akureyri. Since we are in Akureyri, I've watched students there on a career course, and I just want to think about how we might consider the students in our field service, considering their job participation at the end of school, whether they're seeing somewhere in the financial program - I didn't see it - trying to spit in it and giving them more opportunities to work at the end of school.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u189	A respectable president. I mentioned a few things earlier, and I want to continue to mention fourth, that there is a very strong connection between industry and high school. There is a connection to elementary school, there is a link to a home and a connection to a job and by doing this in such a way as to achieve the next result. I've been in business parties and colleges where professional life wants to come to and help and bring a machine into high school. Very often these young people go to work and work in the relevant companies and companies want to improve their equipment. I give tremendous importance that all investments in it come first and last from the public but in good cooperation with the job. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u190	Mr. President. The first objective and focus of the high school budget is to increase the proportion of students who complete their field and technical education and to improve their gender distribution, as mentioned in the discussion. I agree that this should be the focus, especially because it is predictable that the fourth industrial revolution will make significant changes in a workforce that makes the development of career studies and strong cooperation of administrative, school and professional life, as we will consider in the text of the program. I would like to agree that it is a real challenge to increase the number of students in the field and technical education and that it will not only be done by attracting attention and interest in the study, although it is indeed a challenging task, but also the basis for a vigorous professional cooperation between schools. But working and technical studies are more expensive than book studies. If needed, money should follow. In the plan, funds to the high school level remain almost unchanged over time. How's the top? Education Minister for giving it up if the goal for more professional and technical students remains? Students in high school are now 17,784 and I'd like to ask the highest degree. Minister on a number of student plans for the next five years. Are they real? In fact, 16 - year - olds are increasing, according to Hausti reports at the time of the convention, about 600 years of age. Today, 16 - year - olds are 24% of all high school students. If the percentage remains to increase in the number of high school students during the planned period, or to 2024, about 2,300 - but the budget does not increase, according to the schedule.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u191	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for whom we have a similar vision in high school, and in particular, I find it enjoyable where there is trouble. A student who is a former high school headmistress knows a lot about how to set priorities, and he has used himself to reduce the amount of material in high school. It was a very good partnership we had. Hv. A senator asks how it should be handled. The number we have on student forecasts reduces the number of students up to 2024. There's gonna be a space for this. And like a cot. A senator sees that we are going from 30 billion to 35 billion in high school. School directors with whom we have been in touch say: We have already set aside space to invest in equipment, to further our training. But we had a lot to do with this because we know that after the financial collapse, we had to maintain a firm place in the community so that we are making up a certain amount of investment in high school. But to answer that question. A senator will see to it that there will be a decline in high school. We will use that space to increase the average of each student, as has been happening.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u192	Mr. President. The years coming into school are growing, but someone else may shrink back. At the same time, 16 - year - olds are growing. Of course, the next plan will open up, so there's gonna be a lot of students, I hope. Another worthwhile goal that is set for high school activities is that of increasing the number of students who graduate from high school, i.e. ... thatextremences. The college has had this problem for years with little success. There is a need for action, and schools have been strengthened to work in their own way against the disfellowshipping, but unfortunately, the amount has been too low. The action that many have suggested will be successful is the availability of high school students to psychologists. Discussion of this occurred, including ... tothe meeting of the Psychopathian youth who was held on a Castesis show yesterday. A psychologist's half status costs about 4 billion. K. Is there enough money to hire psychologists throughout the entire high school country, thus helping to reduce the number of excommunications?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u193	A respectable president. How true the question is! Senator on the issue of elimination. Elimination in Iceland has been high, probably because professional levels have been pretty high in Iceland. Many young people are offered jobs, even in summer work, and they do not return to high school. Of course, this is not good, and we want to encourage that there are others who are smart. We've just seen a positive trend, we've been moving from 44% to 50%-6.56%, but we've got more to do. With regard to mental - health services, we have been watching different forms and how they have been presented in high school. In some colleges and in a lot of people, psychologists are already inside - I mention high school at Akureyri - and I'm amazed to see how important it is, i.e. certain preventive measures and their effectiveness in this regard have been achieved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u194	A respectable president. Recent training in the teachers'class has failed dramatically in the last few years. The teachers'class is growing older, and younger generations show limited interest in the subject. The reasons for this may be many, but especially that the reason for this is that the work itself is intense and that the requirements for teachers are increasing, in fact, in the last context of the multiplicity of the fourth industrial revolution. It is important for teachers to maintain their fires in their work, to be encouraged, and to have access to updates and re-education so as to meet ever - increasing demands and rapid social and technological changes. They need opportunities and support to have the confidence and satisfaction needed to adapt to a change in teaching method and an increased multicenter thinking and approach to school at all levels. The reality is that teachers are assigned to educate our future according to relatively recent policies, derived from a controversial industrial revolution. These include the obligation of teachers suddenly to teach their students, e.g. Programming. To enable them to do so, there must be a powerful re-education system within the educational system itself. But on page 15 of the budget of the court. As far as I can see, 350 and 351 are concerned, the amount that should go down. So I direct that question to the highest level. Education minister, whether the current financial program is some sort of space in order to meet these demands of the education system. I'd like to point out that this point is very logical because the case that my associate, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, entered into his number on digital carpenters. It's going to be great together.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u195	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for looking at the importance of the teacher in Icelandic education and in all educational systems. It is clear that now that we are molding education policy to the year 2030, we make a great deal of effort to improve the entire educational environment because it is those who carry the system and that are those who lay the foundation for all other jobs. That is why we have been introducing measures to increase the number of teachers, and the first stage was now introduced. He is fully funded on the government budget, and there are new funds, some 250 million each year. What we see, and I want to say, is that there is a very great decrease or decrease in demand for you to go to the teacher's school after it was extended. I really don't want us to cut it down to get more into my study. That is why we are suggesting that our senior year will be rewarded for training. The assembly of these proposals began for quite a while, before I became a minister of education and culture, and we took it and worked it out how we would do it in a very good partnership with teachers' presidents, with the Icelandic community, with educational and cultural institutions, both in the University of Iceland and the University of Akureyri, to think, "Hey, how can we do this so that we can reverse this trend?" Another thing I'd like to say is that now we're offering a scholarship for the first time for those who finish their studies because the elimination from the teacher's school is about 50%. Because there is so much demand for teachers, and that is why they do not complete the study - but it is urgent to do so. I'm going to come up to the development of the next answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u196	A respectable president. I'd like to apologize in advance for how fast I will speak here to make the most of my time. There is a financial programme that shows that there is a general review of the student loan system at the Ministry, which will result in a planned bill in the fall of 2020. In view of the planned review of the student loan system, I would like to direct that question to the highest level. A minister may consider it to be not correct and must raise the student's student budget, which is now nearly a million. It's clear that it's too small. One thing is that such low - incomeing people like students have to live with such a low - income limit. As shown in the financial program itself, children are often involved, and compared with foreign students, Icelandic students are more likely to be parents or to become parents. I'd like to direct that question to the highest level. Whether this point will be emphasised in the planned revision - and if so, be it the highest. A minister can determine when this rise in the holiday market went through.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u197	A respectable president. I couldn't agree more. A senator says he needs to raise the holiday goal, and that's what he's gonna do. We're reevaluating the distribution regulations and it's going to be reported in all the following days. I think that's what. A senator will be just fine and happy with the change that will take place. A respectable president. I'd also like to mention that while we're reevaluating the system, it's very important to improve the status of students with children. Because one of the things we see is that many people delay raising children and even not taking loans while they are studying. Two things are characteristic of those at the University of Iceland, first of all, that these are often students who have children and that our students later complete the study because they work so hard at school. The new system we're about to introduce includes both of these factors, and what I think is most important is that we're turning down considerably the debts that students enter into the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u198	A respectable president. It'll be late to say I'm a huge fan of this government, but I'll admit I'm becoming an excellent member of this Minister. She has been quite active since she took office and is completely prepared there, and I know by asking that she has generally been very ambitious in all places where she has been involved. It has been a pleasure to observe many fine assignments at the highest level. Ministers and most of them just, except for this trend of candidates, to have to subsidize everything. But let's talk about it later. But what I'm a little worried about when it comes to university and financial programs is the highest. Minister to promise to his sleeve. We can say that one of the main weight for the aims of the topic field is that we will reach the average OECD countries for the duration of the programme. This is what we are doing on practically flat donations, so to speak. What I'm staying at is two things. I miss what can, in fact, be highly critical of this financial program in general, that we are not given the basics, i.e. what the situation is today, where we are. We're also not given any talk about mass development, such as... A student at a college level across the credit lines because the criteria are, of course, a contribution to each student. Therefore, I would very much like to receive more information from a minister. How is the student population progressing on the duration of the plan? I think that at least in the front of the reference period, students at a university may have to grow a little because we're taking a double year's course over a two-year period or as a result of a short-term student's test. So it would be interesting to hear from the highest. Minister: How are the numbers developing in the duration of the strategy?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u199	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for supporting much of the good things we are trying to do. Of course, we are always trying to set some goal in education and culture. I firmly believe that if we are going to improve the quality of life in Iceland, we need access to education and how we put our priorities straight. I think what will be most important to the future is that there are good jobs here and that education is useful for the future. I want to tell you what. A senator says I agree with him. I think we should improve the budget and show it clearly and precisely how donations develop in each student. I also want to make a point, and I think it matters that it is clear that we should work toward this goal. We set this goal, but some say, "Why are you setting the goal of achieving this OECD average? I thought it matters, and I think we should not only get it, but we should be where the North countries are. We're doing as well as we possibly can to advance the growth into college. It'll be so clear if it works, but I understand we're pretty close. I need more proof of that, and that's why we're looking for cooperation with OECD to explain it better. In terms of the presentation, I agree with you. A senator says we can make it better. I'd also like to say something else that I think is important, but it's that we see how evolution is with those who are from abroad, those who come to Iceland, and those who have moved away, i.e. based on the level of education. Today, I'm sending a letter to the Standards, where I want better statistics about this because it tells us something about the economy and the economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u200	A respectable president. Of course, it was successful. Ministers, too, as a good candidate, well enough to answer in no question that I asked. Therefore, I reiterate it: How do students at university develop during the periods of the financial program? I agree with the highest. Minister, this is extremely important. Education is the foundation of innovation in our economy, and it is very important to do well at university, especially. Of course, that brings thought to it, and I've heard an appeal because of the highest. Minister will have the ability to make an assessment of a potential slip in wisdom. I think he's really worried. We can see that over the past six, seven years, the net transfer of foreign workers to the country is about 25,000 but the net erosion of the Icelanders at the same time about 10,000. I'm afraid there's a considerable leak of wisdom there that can be dedicated to it. Because we haven't created qualified staff enough opportunities here. In fact, I am convinced that the crown is to blame. [[The president calls.]] I know we're at the highest. I'm sure a minister will agree on that in the end.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u201	A respectable president. I couldn't agree more. A senator that we have to get better numbers on this and I hope to be with them when we even meet at a budgetary committee to review it, and then I can answer that question more. I'd like to step aside to the crown and point it out. A senator has a very remarkable interview with Wolfgang Schäuble, former German finance minister, who was taken up by the Finnish Times magazine and published on March 22. He is now president of the German Parliament and is one of the authors of the euro. In this interview, Germany's former secretary of finance simply says: You can't have a common coin without a political relationship. That's where we'd have had to do better. That's what I'm worried about, too. That's why I've said that the euro isn't sustainable because you have to have a political commission for the coin. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u202	A respectable president. We're dealing with the government budget, and now it's education. The United Nations Convention on the Causes of Disappointment has been validated. What I'm worried about in this matter about the education I went through is just how little is there to discuss in terms of disabled individuals. It's not really anything. It's been going through the financial agenda. This group of subjects seems to have simply forgotten. This is an important case because there are children, teenagers, and even adults who need and have the right to education. I'm asking you, what's the plan for the access of disabled people to schools? Bioavailability can be fine in Reykjavík, but it's not good. But I'm even more concerned about the bioavailability of those who live in the country because it's even worse there. Then there is the access to music and other education in this group. Then there is one thing, the only point that was found in the study program of those with developmental impairment, that there is really nothing after high school. I'm asking you, what are you going to do there? Is it reasonable that there is actually a kind of surrender tone, that they individuals have no more right to study? I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What is the situation, and what should be done?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u203	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question, it's very important and important. I'd like to first mention that we've been applying a policy called education for all, education without separating between the playing, elementary and high school levels. It has been guided, and it will continue to guide us in our 2030 educational policy. Of course, it's important that the bioavailability is okay. I have to say what. Senator I'm gonna give them a break. I'm sure I agree that if they're not, I want very clear comments in this regard. Because we've been applying this policy for quite a while now. With regard to the potential for disabled individuals after high school, I would like to be sure that we formed a working group to evaluate this. I completely agree that after high school there are so few possibilities available. Another thing we're also doing, we want to ensure an increased potential for the labour market and the Ministry of Education and Culture is working with a labour agency in it. Because there is a real demand for these skills. A work agency has been doing very good things in this regard. I would also like to mention that we look to the UN World Goals and the fourth goal is education for everyone. Of course, this should match the commitments we have taken and have agreed on, both international and national. I'm just glad to hear it. One senator mentioned this and noted that there is no mention in the budget because I give myself that the biosolves are all right, but if they do not, they accept comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u204	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers these answers, and I firmly believe that this is her policy, and she will follow her. But the plan says that to support innovation and development technology has been decided to support studies for the student's video game model as a one-year development project, to 2024, I think. You see, it is the computer evolution and the computer education that are suitable for boys who have fallen out. I'd like to encourage you. But don't have this for one year, let everyone find out what they want. Because this is where we would be reaching a very large group of boys who have slipped out of school, and we should let them choose these articles and have it open so that they can have enough information about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u205	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator, this new study of video games, is of utmost importance. I understand it's going very well, and there's a lot of interest in it. I share the comments that come out of the question. A senator referring to the status of young boys in the education system, and we have this particular consideration. We see at university that if we look at a graduate university student, 70% are women, 30% are men. In high school, the elimination rate is higher in young boys than in young girls. At the same high school for locks, and that's why we are taking progressive steps. We specifically refer to the budget, I think for the first time, since we think it's a challenge in our system, and we have to take it into account. I'd like to mention, a respectable president, that one of my most important things is to increase reading in the widest sense. [[The president calls.]] Because it affords these opportunities, and we need to take much more attention to it, and it is part of the Council's arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u206	For the sake of the form, the president wants to state that part of the agreement on this discussion is that a meeting could last longer today than a body council assume, or until the discussion of individual Ministers'case is completed, and then will not survive the discussion unless it is the final session tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u207	A respectable president. The Ministry of Justice is responsible for the public rights of individuals, religion, Justice, Justice, Justice, and Justice, but the last two are not to mention as much under the Ministry of Presidency as is the case. The goal is to spend a total of 243 billion dollars. During the planned period to these classes, an increase of nearly 1.7 billion. From the budget of 2019, or 3.5%. The overall expenditure of the Public Security and Justice area reduces by 700 million. K. During this period of time, and remain fairly unchanged from the current budget of 2019/2023. New projects, except for about 1.8 billion. During the planned period, but at the same time, there are 1.9 billion dollars for the topic field. during the period. The law has been greatly enhanced in recent years, or 6,3 billion dollars. During 20142019 on the price of each year. The budget of 2019 C.E. raised a law force of 410 million. K. to cope with increased stress as a result of an increase in tourists, 80 billion. K. to promote activities against organized crime, 29 million. K. to promote activities against money laundering and 20 million. K. to implement a law enforcement program that will be presented over the next few weeks, and will make the costs of law enforcement more profitable than before and funded for it based on a professional basis. There have also been a significant increase in the budget for the police and the prosecution for the treatment of sexual fractures in the justice system with 15 new status values, up-to-date research equipment, information systems in the justice system, etc. The legal office, in accordance with the importance of the government covenant and minister, will continue to be promoted. The financial contributions made by the Icelandic government's commitment to border protection have already been increased permanently by 614 million. Dec., plus 223 million. K. a temporary contribution to the renewal of tools and information systems. Already we've got 14 billion bucks. sheltered to buy helicopters at the National Guard, but this year there is an invitation. The number of helicopter crews has increased from five to six in the middle of this year, with the aim of increasing the six helicopter crews to seven in the following years, along with the necessary improvements in the aircraft station. The target will also be to get TF-Sif into full operation within the Icelandic economic law. This year, donations were increased to the prison facility by 50 million. K. which will be spent in social and psychological counseling with the aim of improving justice in the community after the end of prison. In addition, there is further improvement in mental health care in prisons in cooperation with a health minister responsible for implementing health care laws but under law, prisoners should enjoy similar health care and in general. Then the Ministry has been working with the Ministry of Education and Culture and Prison Affairs to policy-making inmates, but it has been a challenge to organise the structure and content of suitable scholarships. The total cost of the topic area, individual rights, religion and the Ministry of Justice is raised during the 2.5 billionth period, taking into account a total requirement of 1.2 billion. The main changes in the costs of the topic sector during the 2019 budget period turn to a permanent contribution to the Church to cover the so - called church meeting of 857 million. K. On the average, legal elections increase by about 250 million over the period. That's 80 million and a half to last. K. a donation to the Foreign Institute for increased staff, with the aim of shortening the treatment period and the time that candidates spend in the services of the Agency and in rural society during the application procedure. Part of the contribution will also be included in the needs analysis and the renewal of information systems. While there is still uncertainty about the number of candidates for international protection, the success of reducing the number of unfounded applications over the last two years and the speed of the departure of those applying for international protection in this country has been very effective. In 2017, there were 52% of applications from individuals from safe sources but only about 24% in 2018. At the same time, the number of applications from citizens from other countries has increased, but they were 436 in 2016 and 607 in 2018. The applications take, as indicated by the nature of the case, a longer period of payment where they require a more extensive and time - consuming study and, therefore, longer services. As a result, the number of candidates for international protection has increased again. Today, some 640 individuals in service, compared with 7,42 at the end of 2016 when an unprecedented number of people applied for international protection. This is a search for practical options at the same time, looking for ways to enhance flexibility in financing. There are changes in the law and the rules to improve the effectiveness of the category, but the effectiveness of the protection system is improving by all applicants. Peritoneal protection has been strengthened in recent years with up to three triples of donations and will continue to emphasise meeting legislation and dealing with increasing legal numbers. [[The president calls.]] There is no restraint in the court case, and it is emphasised on keeping the treatment period within the criteria set.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u208	Mr. President. At a meeting of the legal committee, it was announced recently that red light in the Ministry of Justice was released in the House of Refugees. This group of subjects is thus made up to be expected to include fluctuations and unpredictable spendings that are greatly dependent on the number of applications at a time, and not less than the number of persons in the service, which is the factor that most impactes the budget on the expenses of the budget, as shown in financial programmes. Recently, representatives of the Ministry of Justice informed a meeting of the budget board that there may be a need for an extra budget of 2 billion dollars. and that would put the total amount of money to less than 5 billion this year. This is a large sum of money and a lot of cost if it actually goes on. His relative sensitivity to less than 75% could be said to be out of control. The financial program also said that it was the highest. Ministers comment on previous changes to improve effectiveness and other factors. The five - year schedule in which we now discuss this is only natural to specify timing, when to plan for a planned change, including the rule. The highest. A minister informs us of the timing in this subject, and what results are expected to bring about the expected changes received?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u209	Mr. President. You're right next door. A member of the body has discussed these matters, and it is clear that if the cost is not made, it will be better. Then the Ministry has a certain obligation under government law, and already it is working between the Ministry and the Foreign Institute on a possible route. We also have a bill to make changes in the shape of foreigners in part to meet this, i.e. More efficient lawsuits require less money. That work is very long ago, and I hope to bring it a bill for a given deadline, i.e. if you can deliver electronically before the deadline. I can't tell you exactly which points are in there, they're still in the process, but there are suggestions that include more efficient court treatments without in any way threatening your safety or checking matters in a way that needs to be done to make sure that the treatment is in accordance with all the laws and regulations. This amount might be reduced considerably. I just agree with what. A senator, and in my speech, must simply be more flexible. There is also the Ministry of finance because we cannot be so stiff when it comes to financing, e.g. The workers at the National Institute of Foreign Affairs who are working on the situation because the cost ends then at a different site, i.e. when it is time for the ministry. It is higher, and everyone agrees, and everyone knows that this matter is held for a long time, especially for those who are applying for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u210	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The minister's answer, and he can agree with much that came out, especially the final words. Minister. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, whether national regulations are to a considerable degree from what goes and happens in the Northern countries and whether a minister believes that the national rules will result in an increase in cost. In fact, representatives of the Ministry of Justice at a meeting of the budget committee found that the reason for the growth of applications and thus increasing expenses lies in the fact that the regular work is more expensive in this country. Can we expect the rule to be the same here and in the North? Mr. President. Since we want to help the needy, we especially want to help women and children, so it is important that money for the party be used to the best of its purpose.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u211	Mr. President. The law is not exactly the same in all the states of the North. We have much of our affairs very similar to those in the countries around us, yet there are certain things in which we go further in demand or effectiveness. Part of the work being done on the bill is bringing us closer to what is in the North countries, and in all of these, of course, there is always a lot of evolution. In many ways, this is reversed. But when we have a system that we know to some extent is not being handled properly, as in the case of, e.g. unregistered applications, they affect people for whom the system really is. To me, it's not hard to argue that the system is for it, and we need to make sure that all regulations contribute to that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u212	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister of Justice for her review today. She has a measure of pity, and she has been shown many times in her recent case that she is temporarily in this office, thus not being responsible for the past or the future when it comes to the financial plan of this class. But we're here to discuss a party of the highest order. Minister of Justice and I would like to discuss the institution that has something to do with her being in this office, you see, the National Court. This is so that a righteous trial will not only go out of the way of a court of independence and dishonour but also go forth for a fair and normal pace. Court judges in the Court of Justice are required to be 15 and are listed in the financial programme that the main challenge of this appeal court is to develop new rights and to train employees, while maintaining a period of therapy within the standards set. Since it is anticipated that a lawsuit has already been formed in the court where only 11 judges are active - and will be 10 since the fall to come - I want to ask the highest degree. Ministers whether it is not necessary to contribute significantly to the State's contribution to the court in order to ensure just treatment. There is no discussion of the current situation in the program, which came only this weekend, and it is clear that there is no additional development to the Country Court due to being judged.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u213	Mr. President. It is true that I was not in the office of Minister of Justice when the plan was done and the texting and all the contingency that takes considerable time. I've also said I'm here for a while, but while I'm the Minister of Justice, I'm responsible for everything involved in that office, including those texts and suggestions in the budget. For the land's rights, it is absolutely true that there are eleven judges who judge matters, the other four come to work but do not judge. At this point, it's just so that I'm not ready to answer whether, how, and when any changes will be made here. It's been a week since I've sat down in this chair and I've made a good use of the time, but I can't tell exactly what to do, when it's gonna be done, and how. It is true that financial programmes do not consider that situation. So the decision is to make, and somehow we need to resolve it. To justify this, the National Court is functional and is to judge, and there are 11 judges there at work. At that time, it may not be possible to say that there are many things that are so upset, even though this situation is not an acceptable situation and that we cannot look at it for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u214	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for the answer. I got the top. The Minister's right to judge the Court, the four that are not permitted to do their jobs, to arrive in court? Can a minister inform a congregation of what is involved in their daily activities? The rest of my life, I'd like to wind up in the candidates' affairs of international protection and ask for the highest degree of protection. Minister: Is it possible to reduce the costs of services to candidates for international protection in this country by allowing them to work temporarily while waiting? A few years ago, when candidates were able to publish temporary selection and temporary employment permit based on the employment contract, these people fell out of all services, to considerable savings for the Icelandic State, whether in the case of living or having housing. That's why I ask: Isn't it possible to contribute to the publication of such permits candidates for international protection today when the state's population is showing off?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u215	Mr. President. Regarding the first question, the judges appreciate it so that they cannot judge matters. What they do during the day is the court's decision. I don't know it, and I don't have it, and I couldn't, and I didn't have it, and I didn't have it, and I didn't have it, and I couldn't have it, and I didn't want it to have a special opinion or to put it in their hands. Regarding the second question, I believed that the change was still true. A senator came on if it hadn't been exactly like that, but I don't dare go into that process. In general, I believe we should help people move to the country and work. Of course, it needs to come in on the right grounds. [[The president calls.]] In case of a moment. A senator is asking if they can go to work if they come in with a request for international protection and they don't get it approved... [[While they wait...]] [[The president calls.]] There's something I'd be open to look at, but I don't know enough to answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u216	Mr. President. There are many things to do when it comes to painting. Minister of Justice, and then you have to make a selection. Like others, I want to come to the highest level in my questions. Minister, just to stay with the foreign languages. I'd like to start by saying that I'm glad that there's an increase in funding for the Foreign Institute for recruiting more people. I don't think it can help. But I would also like to make it clear that I find it very important to think that it is in order that things can be won not only fast but also well; looking to humanity and making the best of the security of those coming here. However, as shown in the text of the financial program, there have been tensions about how many people have come here and as in where people come from. Hence, it may have different needs. I'd like to hear at the highest. Minister, if he thinks we need to create an even more flexibility in this system. Unfortunately, I think it's quite clear that due to the state of the world, because of the changes that are going to occur, e.g. Because of the climate, we will continue to see that people and even people from all kinds of situations other than ours are going to come here. How can you deal with this, just in plans like the ones we're discussing here tonight?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u217	Mr. President. It's true that there are a lot of fluctuations in the system, there's a number of cases going up and down - more up - and those groups also change from month to month or from time to time. Needs vary greatly, and these require different treatments, different demands, and vary from time to time in order to cover matters and other services to people as well. So I'm completely aware that more flexibility is needed in the system, that the Ministry and the agencies involved in these cases have more room for response, and then they can reduce the amount of money they pay, or they need to consider how services should be handled. I agree with that. A senator says that we do not see that land is putting down a security system. These systems will be tested to a great degree in the next few years. But we also need to think outside the box and try to find other ways that will simply help people to move abroad. I feel that sometimes, in discussions about these matters, we're mixing systems or paths. I feel too tense when it comes to allowing people to come here to feel and seek opportunities, but they cannot be used by the security system. Because it's going through all of this. When we're dealing with the security system and international protection and things like that, it's for a purpose. It is for people who are in danger of death, who are persecuted. But people in search of a better life, which I think everyone in this hall would do too if the circumstances were like that--we need a system to receive it that way. That's not the answer to your immune system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u218	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister for the answer and can, of course, fully agree that the security system is set up for a purpose. But we live at the same time that the land is very closed to those who come here outside the European Economic Area. It affects the status of those coming from faraway countries. This needs to look into everything in context and I hope to the highest degree. A minister takes it into account on continued employment in the Ministry. I'd like to use the last question just to ask about the police. See the chart on page 7 of this magazine. 231 putting money on the police's improved equipment, defense and safety guard due to terrorism and massive acts of violence, as well as public law enforcement equipment. [[The president calls.]] What is this? What kind of equipment are we discussing?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u219	Mr. President. About what question? The senator, on the funding of these police purchases, I understand that it is only about to renew the existing equipment, i.e. Police equipment is not being proclaimed as new or very controversial but is now being replaced.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u220	Mr. President. In the case field of a legal budget, the primary objective of the field is, as if by permission of a president, a state of solidarity to the courts by ensuring access to them and by means of fair treatment. The future vision of the topic field is that citizens will have the legal security and basic rights of the entire European Union. But no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The challenges faced because of complete uncertainty about the ability of the land's rights to judge the following court are not described, nor do we mention the huge cost of execution, regardless of how it will be carried out, and how it will improve the inevitable loss of confidence in the court, following the judgment of the Court of Human Rights. Rather, it is reading the financial program, such as entering a later trial in which the Court's judgment of the Human Rights never fell, and the mood of the judicious judiciary and all that has to be done to strengthen confidence in courts and to increase the rate of speech is the various technical solutions and innovations that are getting a prominent amount of space in the Action program of the Party. A fairly unchanged budget for the courts is expected in the seminars by permission of presidents: When you look at the past few years of paintings in the National Court and in the former Supreme Court, it is only possible to present similar developments in the coming years. I would have thought, Mr. President, that there were strong reasons to question this assumption. Now I know that it was not a long time since the Court's judgment of the Human Rights fell until a financial plan was published, but I can call it a complete sense of irresponsibility and complete denial of reality not to mention a single word of the Court's rights and its consequences when the main objective is trust in courts. So I ask the highest. Minister: How does this side trial stand?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u221	Mr. President. The work, aims, and measures in financial planning are exactly the same according to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights as for it. The task of ensuring confidence in the courts did not end with the decision of the European Court of Human Rights. It was possibly bigger, and we may need more confidence in courts, but our goals are exactly the same. The reason for this conclusion not being made and for making special decisions is that it was simply too late. It's all gonna take time. The texts and tables and documents and all have to be returned to the Ministry of finance, which must be harmonized in this hundreds of pages, in agreement between recruitment, and in its big pills, and then takes time to make it available for printing. That's the simple answer. There are only pragmatic reasons. It was too late. Here's a question of denial of reality, and I don't know anything about that denial.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u222	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Yet I doubt that the goals and solutions are exactly the same according to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. The only solutions I see in strengthening confidence in courts in this program are electronic solutions. Now I'm as Pirati always very satisfied with electronic solutions and electronic administration, but I can't see the increased flow of electronic documents between courts, a better registration system, and a better information system for the courts is involved in strengthening confidence in the courts after this judgment. It's the only action, really, and the only challenges I see in this program. Information systems integration and harmonization are achieved by the release of sentences on websites on all courts. All of this is to be done to strengthen confidence in courts. This is true in itself, but it cannot be considered as a proper goal to regain confidence following the court of the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u223	Madam President. That's right, these actions are certainly part of it. I did not mean that the project was exactly the same, so it would be with the same challenges, but their goals are the same for judgment and judgment. Because of the second question as big as any. A senator came in earlier, and I forgot to answer, why would it not have been set out specifically what to do, then I'd like to say that away from pragmatic reasons, sync and printing, and other such things, we would not have achieved that time because we're still working on maps, weigh the decisions we're going to make next. That's what's going on. Of course, the matter is different now. But their goals are the same. I reiterate that the reason why nothing is involved in other possible future actions is that decisions about them have not been made and there was no time to address them specifically in the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u224	Madam President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister of Public Security and Justice Headquarters. Where I'm going to dock, there's territory, helicopters and law enforcement. It is a pleasure to see in this program that we have three helicopters available, as well as full funds for the sixth crew and for the seventh crew. Since the three helicopters are now, I would have thought it normal that we would go to the country and maybe put one north, but I don't expect it to be that way. As for helicopters and guardships and the like, this program also shows how important it is for us to have a high level of land cover. Our ocean area is big. We also live in fishing and shipping throughout our territory, so we need security. Since I'd also like to know in this session the law enforcement is involved. They're talking about the implementation of a law enforcement program. Where does she say? She's funded, and so on.?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u225	Madam President. I agree with what. A senator with regard to the affairs of the National Guard, i.e. Both crew and helicopter shopping. I hope that a plan for tenders and other such activities will last, and we will see a great deal of important investments. All of this takes its time to prepare and secure funds, but it is important to us for all kinds of reasons that cannot be covered in one minute. In terms of law enforcement and law enforcement, she's very far along, ready to go. The task lies ahead is to dive into it and then to publish it. In this program, law enforcement authorities have set reasonable goals with clear scales. The purpose of a law enforcement program is to define the nature and scope of the work and to define in detail the work the police are assigned to do, each cost of state funds is at the hands of the police. The purpose of this too is that the cost of the police work will be more beneficial than before and that it will ensure that its funds will be based on a professional basis. It's a long one, too. I'm so glad it's this far. In my previous life, as an agent of the Ministry was working on this and you felt this need, able to work a proper analysis of where the need was to establish and justify money and explain to people why money was going here and not there, what kind of law enforcement, where the country, etc. There is one thing that people feel or feel about where the need is really the most or that they have been in recent years. [[The president calls.]] Sometimes there is a need where the police are not visible at all. But there may be a great need for financial resources in those places.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u226	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. Then I'm going to download the next section for the county office. It states this blow that has been in the county settlements for the past few years, the tail that has been on them. Senators in the Northeast districts are, for example, members of the United States of America. Recently received mail from the county office at Seysendir, where people complain of having to cut down. How's the top? Ministers suggest that we can begin to reverse this evil development, which has been in the county settlements for the past few years? The Agency plays a very important role in many parts of the country that it is very important for us to begin running around, and the county government is about to start running toward its feet.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u227	Madam President. The business of the county reformers is constantly under discussion, and nothing is to be left of us. Today, there is an overall conference for the office, with much to consider and much to consider. For a very long time, there has been an effort to find more work to do to the office, e.g. Today's work is in the plot or elsewhere. There are many who agree in word, but there is something on the project; I'm also a minister of another ministry. Because of what? A senator used the words ▪ at his feet, so it is, in my mind, a task: How can the county office set foot in changing communities? You have far more electronic services and opportunities to expand jobs without location. When we are able to engage in electronic services, this does not mean that all of them can be in Reykjavík. That should be the case, asking: "What kind of work can be in the country? [[The president calls.]] Can we not just make a political decision that all kinds of jobs that can be done in both places should be left in the country? That would be a very powerful way to promote the county office.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u228	Madam President. I would like to make the subject of full - time talk, prison business. First of all, a little bit of my attention is that the goal is not very much spoken of inmateism, and it really surprises me. True, it is said that it will contribute to a successful adjustment of judgment to society. It may well involve them at the same time. This calls for my attention. What also attracts my attention, and I would like to hear a response of the highest degree. Our minister is that when we speak of a standard of success, I do not see that some measure of success is how prisoners manage to get to their feet in the community, which must be a very important standard. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Minister for prisoner health care, i.e. in psychiatry, mental - health service, but perhaps not least that in prisons there are people who are sick and who have no place in prison but in other institutions, clinics. [[The president calls.]] Is there any news of this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u229	Madam President. Of course, the first duty of a prison agency is to ensure that she can do her work out of men's means and from other things, but I would say that the other thing that matters most to the inmates serving in prisons as well as to us as a community is to increase the likelihood that they will get back to their senses when punishment is over. One measure is a comeback rate of 20%, as we consider the magnitude of the proportion to be produced by unpredicted reviews within two years. With increased funding for socio-psychological advice, it is more likely that once imprisonment is completed and the recurrence of fractures is further adjusted to the community. Of course, part of reform is psychological service, opportunity for education, the work that prisoners have been able to do. This is all part of our doing better. For e.g. Health care in prison was at least So, and I suppose it's still, that it's not always about the budget, it's hard to figure these positions out. There are a number of reasons. This is a very challenging situation, so we need to improve in doing so. But it is essential that prison mental - health services be improved and fully realized that it has been lacking in recent years and that there is no mental - health professional in prisons. I think most people will realize and know what needs to be done, but it seems more important to make it happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u230	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I am fully aware that these issues are difficult to resolve, but advice must be sought to remedy this situation, and even if money is not everything, they are still important. I want to continue with prisoners who are sick and who are more likely to live either in a unique facility or in a medical facility. As a prison chief has publicly said, he has sick individuals who do not live in prisons but who are unable to cope with the problem so that the health system refuses to accept them and the prison authorities cannot dismiss the people. [[The president calls.]] This is a subject that I think is extremely urgent to find a suitable solution for, and I'm asking the highest. Minister if she'll take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u231	Madam President. The answer is yes, I will try to put it to work, and I last discussed it at a meeting in the Ministry yesterday where there is a particular job going on. This requires the close cooperation of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Health, and the Ministry of Justice. What is often difficult about such matters - which is no excuse but sometimes an explanation of how things take time - is that the responsibility is in more than one place. In this case, fortunately, these are extraordinary few individuals, but what is difficult when few are left in it is to have an arrangement that is permanent and always there, since at times there is just no one in such resources. Still, the project is clearly there, and we need a permanent solution that can be taken at such times. Such matters are incredibly delicate and complex, but they are also incredibly important to resolve, for these are often our weakest people, and we have a responsibility to carry out that assignment seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u232	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice for his introduction in a financial discussion. Its group is very extensive, and I would like to see the police this time. I was watching TV news tonight and I saw the police training dogs. The dogs who are already old and tired and who probably take time off each. As the international community knows, the flow of drugs into the country and the natural cause of substances produced here at home is devastating. This has proved to be the case with the helpers the dogs are or the assistance they provide to the police has often made a big difference in such matters. We know that our police force is too small, and it has been estimated that as many as 200 police officers are needed in their ranks so that they can take care of the surveillance and security they would like to do. The material that the dogs we saw on the news seem to be very good and a cause for great optimism. The cost is great, and it takes an enormous amount of time to train dogs, but we know how much help they can do. My question is, did they come on board yet? The Minister of Justice to carry out a further assignment so that we can be pretty sure that new dogs will replace those who soon leave behind because of their age.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u233	Madam President. I agree with what. That such assistance is very important to us, and it is likely that it is difficult to place merits on these blessed dogs. It's true that training costs money and takes time, but we've put extra money in the training of dogs in the northern part of the West, at the office there. So the funds needed to train new dogs are in place and in place.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u234	Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, which is most enjoyable, I would say. Then, at a later stage, I will take my songs into the cross and mention the land's rights, the interjugation that was highly anticipated. I'm not going to talk about the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the matter but about the disappointments I experience in the land's court of speech and language. For example, just a year ago, a group of people appealed from the province to the Country Court and was put on the program the following year. So I ask the highest. Minister of Justice: Is the rate of judgment acceptable, seeing from the uncertainty faced by the court today?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u235	Madam President. First of all, because of the question in the previous case. A senator on a man-to-be police program. We have an overview of how it's divided, i.e. 67% of the population is in emergency services, 10% in crime control, and 23% at any given time in an investigation. I just wanted it to come. With regard to the second question, I have not studied the exact period of handling, but I can say that the entire system of judgment is pretty well financed. It is the only area in the Ministry of Justice that is not required. We've tried to protect this subject and to help keep it on its schedule.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u236	Madam President. I'm going to get in the same position as many others here before me and discuss law enforcement. I cut by the highest. The Minister of Justice, in his introduction, said that the police had been promoted, and I especially want to celebrate with the highest degree. Minister. But I would also like to point out that a committee by the then Minister of State gave 2013 the results of the police's growth, the implementation of law enforcement plans, and the definition of the role of law enforcement as such. There, as noted many times, the number of law enforcement officers needed to be increased by 236 at that time. Since then, the population of the country has grown largely and the number of natural tourists has multiplied. In response to my written inquiry at the council, the Minister of Justice last year said that the police had dropped from this reference year in 2012, from 656 to 636 last year, 2018. So they would have dropped by 20 years ago, but an increase of 236 was necessary. That is a long way from the 236 police officers who had to grow by that time. I'm asking the highest. Minister: If the police are not seen in a number of police officers, where does this authority appear?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u237	Madam President. Of course, this discussion is familiar. In recent years, however, the law has been greatly enhanced. That would be 6.3 billion dollars. During 20142019 at the price of each year. There is no longer much money. All very important, and a lot of work to do after surgery after a crash. In analysis of human needs, it is simply not enough to examine the number of police officers that have been present. The need for law has changed from that in the past. Ideas about the design of police services are based on the basis of targets for emergency services, crime control and research. It must also be remembered that in recent years police workers have increased, non-political employees, i.e. Experts in various fields involved in the investigation of criminal affairs and other police activities. That is what we simply look at in the future. Therefore, it is not enough to watch only a number of educated policemen on the streets because of changes in their assignments. With a law enforcement program now, we are thoroughly identifying the need and where it most is, and we leave it to the budget. It's more important to me to be at least ... witha document that is funded but a document that is not financed at all. This document, the soon to be prepared, will matter to the future as to how decisions are made regarding the priorities of funds, that we have carefully identified where the need is most important, and leave the budget to follow on that project.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u238	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. She gave this familiar discussion. The question is no more surprising than the reduction in the number of law - enforcement officials by 20 from 2012/2018. Educated police officers, certainly, but can you offer that 85 replacements be included in this? It's natural men who are completely uneducated and are solving. And even if that number is included, 170 police officers are still missing from what was supposed to be the best law enforcement in 2012. Since then, population has increased, etc. I was going to ask about the D.A., but I'm going to end up asking about the police program. When can it be expected? When I was a policeman, we were working on this law enforcement program, which was 2014. Now it's 2019, five years later, and a law enforcement program has not yet been established. Now I see in my financial plan that it's due for the spring council. [[The president calls.]] Then I'd like to ask you, are you expecting her in this spring?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u239	Madam President. I'm sure I and what. A senator will be able to rejoice together when a legal program is published because it was the same time we were working on law enforcement at the Ministry. They're doing this for the first time. At that time, the project was also a much larger, judicial, and all below. But this plan would be as good as ready and possible if we hadn't gone through the past few days. I will place great emphasis on entering this program, officially completing it and getting it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u240	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the presentation. I'm gonna pat the same rock that some people have clapped and talked a little about the police and the law enforcement. I don't think it's entirely over. It's a problem. Iceland is on national track, and there's a lot of tourist out there that must call for more police activity. It's saying in a country where there's a lot of dangers waiting for drivers. Then there is the need for law enforcement in daily life and the need for the presence of law enforcement in daily life. It's a long way to go before people to call the police when something comes up. There must be people's basic rights to have such a police access. There must be one of the fundamental sources for providing decent benefits and security for the presence of police. This is not necessarily because law is harder to crack than law. It is because the presence of the police is a self - aware part of the level of service that rural society wants to maintain for its inhabitants. I'd like to say one more thing. The rules for alcohol consumption are being changed, which is considered to be criminal in the blood of drivers. That's what calls for more men. There is an increasing wrap around it, with no apparent presence. During the next five years, there is an estimated 1 billion. The Marshal has commented on a previous financial program that to meet the human needs of 3 billion people. I want to pray to the highest. Minister to have a word with me on this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u241	Madam President. I agree with what. A senator with regard to the basic rights of the people of the land knows that the police are not too far away. We know exactly that there are areas in this country that do not fulfill it as we would like. I can't help but agree. That's what a senator does. It is an eternal assignment, an eternal reward, and always a matter of priorities. Of course, the minimal presence or the time it takes for the police to arrive is something that really matters to people and you feel a lot when you go through the country, e.g. In my district. People need security when they are involved. The role of the police has changed greatly and has increased with all these tourists. Last year's budget put 410 million people on top of increased pressure on law enforcement because of the growth of tourists. Also, if you take the tourism and tourists, there are some areas where there are not many farms, so it would not necessarily have to be present there, but because of the number of tourists in the area it needs. This shows again and again what travel services are going through all of society's churches. All plans, decisions, and priorities need to be taken into account today as far as travel is needed. It's from health care, irrigation, house warming subsidies, law enforcement, and everything in between. We'll see that more traffic violations have been taken because of police demonstrations. It can be traced directly to police initiatives, so we know it works. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u242	A respectable president. It appears on page 272, by permission of the president: Then there's 80 million. K. contributes to the Management Board for increasing staff with the aim of reducing the number of candidates in services of the National Institutes of Iceland and rural areas to the need for analysis and renewal of information systems. It goes on to say that the budget of the topic field is increasing by 125 million. K. in 2022 and another 125 million. K. In 223 C.E., but the task had not been determined. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister may consider using this money or any of it to improve the resources of those living in the service of the National Institute of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u243	Madam President. Granted, this is not the case with funds in the presence of a fund in the Ministry or National Institute for Use. There are countless projects in this area, and financial resources are certainly not enough. Our task ahead is largely to determine how we react to the trend of seeing that we have to put ahead of all schedules and have a obligation to make suggestions in this regard. Sadly, these amounts are considerably higher than those given as amount. A senator mentioned this assignment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u244	Madam President. There is a considerable discussion of a financial legal program, and it was discussed just before the Supreme Court. Minister. I heard the highest. A minister speaks of this law enforcement program as a means of valuation and of dispensing money to the factors or fragrances of the law enforcement that they need. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. The Minister of Justice whether the legal strategy will not be fully rewarded, i.e. when there is a cost assessment. I can't see in the budget whether it exists, but without money, law enforcement is nothing more important than a Christmas donor list. It would be curious to learn whether the funding of the police services will be more detailed than that, and so on, for example. The possibility that a U.S. Marshal may be able to finance his activities in part by means of financial contributions from other offices in the form of the State Marshal's parking center. But at the end, I have to point to one of the most strange guidelines for this financial plan, which is on page 230. It says, by permission of the president: The police will have an F1 priority time of less than 10 minutes and an F2 average within each district. A recall vehicle is available and manned for 90% of the F1 and F2 priority categories and 70% of the F3 and F4. It's under the roof. Is it really acceptable for the minister of justice to include each car accident, to tithe every serious assault, or to list each domestic case not free of vehicle and manpower in order to handle such serious projects?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u245	Madam President. Of course, the current legal programme will need to take into account this year's financial plans and will be the task of ensuring that it is funded for the future. It's about what it's like. A senator asked about at the end - I simply don't know how to answer that. Do I think it's acceptable that the police can't do their jobs in part X? It would be strange if I said that I felt that it was acceptable. But these are realistic goals, and that must be the task, for otherwise you would be criticized for setting goals that could not be fulfilled. So it was a clever question, but it was very tricky to answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u246	Madam President. I ask sincerely because this is the 2024 criteria that 90% of the cases can be relied on the police in very serious cases. I don't like the odds, unfortunately, Madam President. Real or no? Then I feel a little far off by getting 90%, even 90%. But other things and more about plans. A list of the police's key challenges will discuss the assessment performed in the Schengen Union in 2017, and it will discuss a plan of action to correct its comments. However, this program does not mention comments made by the European Council's GRECO organization against corruption, set up against governments last year, and they were particularly serious toward the police. It is important to note that the police were not accusing the police of corruption. Rather, they just need certain defenses so that corruption cannot take place, from having enough people to control so that they don't have to work double shifts, let police work alone, and the rules for the defence of informants within the police. [[The president calls.]] Where is the government's plan for corruption? If we do not start with this, how should any other strategy be trustworthy?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u247	Madam President. To answer the previous question, why? A senator, about the standards and goals set in the program, is the International Standards that we compare with. You can also ask what kind of demonstrations or police presence would be if we could always answer 100%. I'm not sure that we would be quite ready to make it that way. As for the Iceland Action Programme when it comes to corruption, it's just not one of the projects I've given myself the time to think specifically about or explore during these seven days. They factor as a good thing. A senator would say regarding the police, I would think that we were already in the process, but there was a need to gather and publish to satisfy what it says.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u248	Madam President. I'd like to ask a few questions at the National Court. I know that case has only been discussed in the past. What I would like to focus on and ask the highest. Whether an effort has been made or an attempt to assess the cost of falling, or might fall, then you speak with caution, because of the difficulties that have been involved in the order of the court. Then I'm talking about both the possible issues of the initial court order and whether such a plan is available or an attempt to reimburse the cost of reimbursement, the possible cost of adding a court order, etc. Has any initial assessment of such costs been made or likely to occur? Then I take up my song on a cross in the absolute sense of the word and study the chapter on religion and association with the church. In recent years, it has become a major change in membership in the State Church. There is a contract, I understand, and as specified here, it is aimed at completing this year. I ask, also because it is available in the Ministry for a petition from signed and more members of the council on the connection between the state of State to the church over other religions, whether it is wise at this point to close agreements with the Church on these issues. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u249	Madam President. The answer to the previous question is why. The senator at the expense is no. It hasn't been put together and it's out of the way. The answer to the second question about the church meeting is that it has been a long time and, of course, has been in progress or has been going on for a very long time. This is an exclusive contract that I would say could be replaced, even if we took up a conversation about economic relations between governments and churches. But I understand that hopes are in place for the completion of these contracts this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u250	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I'll ask them again if it's not wise to go to the highest. In his ministry, a minister tried to try to evaluate this expense, but I'm referring to the National Court. Regarding the other issue, i.e. Religion and the State Church, an agreement, and a link to the State Church, I would like to ask if the highest level. Ministers may have that information or may be able to instruct me about when it is expected that the report I made might be able to see. It was requested in October 2018. She is well beyond the appointed times for the council in that regard. I'm asking if she has any information about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u251	Madam President, I know what to do. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir Helgaygóttir has sent an inquiry into the Ministry for the cost of the national rights, but the case is not over, so there is not a time for who he will be. I'm sorry about the second question, I can't tell a senator where the report is, but I do know that it's not ready, because it's not in my tray on the desk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u252	A respectable president. We're still talking about the government budget, and now we're in the courts, I'd like to ask the highest degree. Minister of Justice on the issues of Privacy and Justice. I see that it is to promote the protection of the Persians, which is very good, but I would like to ask about the courts and the computer systems of the courts and their release on the courts. Sensitive personal information is still being published in both older and recent cases, which is incomprehensible because of the unscrupulous violation of personal protection laws. Sadly, there are very sensitive personal information, not only about the damage - resistant or the perpetrators, but also the witnesses who have had to give up information about themselves. I'm gonna ask the Minister of Justice if there's any future planned funds to get it right. Then I'd also like to know about abduction. I couldn't find a cane on an apothecary. We know that financiers are far better off at stakes, individuals who run into, for example. in traffic accidents and with strong insurance companies. People who have conventional wages just don't have a chance to fight a giant like that unless they get aggressor. But I understand that the word is now, and it is rare, to receive a striving after many other things. It's very hard to deal with. I ask if there should be a significant increase so that everyone can use their rights in court.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u253	Madam President. For the release of omens and what information there is, the bill was put on a language puzzle that is now designed to determine exactly what you will do and what will look like. The Court's office has called for a level-separated procedure between the proceedings, and I assume that a bill, including it's touching in the council before the ceremony. It is not all right when it happens that some information is not to be published at all. Happily, they do not have many issues, but they are, of course, supposed to be zero. Certain funds are expected in this technical matter of the courts, i.e. This portal and more. With the abduction, I understand that we've just raised those criteria.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u254	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice for these answers. What a joy it is if the standards of a slave have been raised and fail to do so! Then I'd like to understand, in the matter of law enforcement that has been spoken about, visible law enforcement. I'm afraid it's very limited. We discussed this in the hall the other day, and there was actually only one man who said that the visible law was not limited, or limited. paritaprevir Brunes the Brynjar of Níelsson. He seems to see police in many places. But I never see them, and I'm afraid of them. Then there's the situation in shouts. Do we not also need to make sure that there are always two officers in the car when the call is out, especially in the country? Then I want to end up in the National Guard and cruise boats, off the cruise ship that ran off in Norway. What's the situation around here?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u255	Madam President. These were given a few leaves, which I get a minute to answer. In other words, there was a set of criteria for the apocalyptic pursuit in order to have the wording properly on this matter. As regards the demonstrations of the law enforcement force, we have added a lot of money to law enforcement in general, but it seems to each one how visible the police are. Some people like it when it's not visible. But I only mentioned earlier that it is also necessary to consider how the need for law enforcement has changed. We've increased police personnel who are not police officers, specialists in various fields involved in criminal studies and other police activities. This is based only on needs and priorities, depending on what police work needs to be done. Of course, in the D.A., in three seconds, this is something we really need to look into. We're reevaluating this need from the National Guard, where the need is most, and we're getting additional funds for that seminary. [[The president calls.]] It is for us to set priorities on demand.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u256	Then we've completed a discussion about legal justice ministers in a financial programme and taking in lawsuits under environmental and resource ministers. We planned an hour and a half for discussion with the Minister. The minister has five minutes in the beginning to discuss his lawsuits. Thereafter, members of Parliament can direct inquiry to the Minister, one from each government class, to each minister, with the exception of members of the council of the local minister and two from each government position. Senators and Ministers get two minutes the first time, and one minute later, both traffic. Those answers will not be allowed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u257	V.E.G. President. The last financial program 20191⁄223 adopted a significant consideration for projects in the 17th Environment. This was done in particular in order to meet climate challenges and projects in order to protect natural resources and contribute to sustainable use. In the current financial programme, the increase remains unchanged with regard to these groups. The annual total budget for the topic area is 2019 budgets, about 19 billion dollars. and estimated to be 22.4 billion in 2024. Looking forward to 2018 and the rise that then led to the media, this increase took place at 28.8%. The challenges we face in climate matters are immediate and urgent. The government has put climate issues first, and between 2020 and 2,2024, it is estimated that about 8.3 billion will be spent. It's a little extra to climate. That is the case in 2024, about 2 billion dollars. more to climate, compared with 2018. With the first version of the climate action program presented. In the fall, the emphasis is on two large - scale carbon bindings and transport exchanges of energy. In addition, more money is planned for innovation, education, research, and various measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We had taken hold of climate issues, and much work is being done about them these days and months - and will continue. In terms of climate issues, the Ministry has been able to include set two of the following goals: 1st That in 2024 all measures in the existing climate programme will be completed which will not be completed. The plan of action will be reviewed regularly, and the rest of it will have a clear view of the day later this year. 2. To improve the year-to-year healing, recovery of ecosystems and forestry aims to reduce land-use greenhouse gas emissions and to increase carbon binding in the soil and vegetation in support of the Paris Convention's targets and the government's objectives on noncarbonization of 2040. But to another major environmental issue, nature protection. The primary objective is to ensure the protection of natural resources and sustainable future use of the land, including with development of infrastructure and agriculture, which is based on scientific knowledge, education, information sharing and cooperation with stakeholders. With the injection of the funds approved in the budget of the last year, it will be 8.3 billion dollars. devoted to these projects in the year 2020,2024. The work involved is establishing a central national park. A committee that now works on his preparation will return his proposal to me in the fall. With regard to nature protection, the Ministry has been able to include set two of the following goals: 1st That the pressures of the destinations of tourism in environmental protection areas are within the range of tolerability, including with a structure of relevant infrastructure and agriculture to regulate tourism management and maintain the protection of natural protection areas. A national structure strategy for the protection of nature and cultural mines is the tool that has brought the industry to better use for everyone; tourism, government funds, and nature itself, which profit most of all. I'd like to say that the watershed in Iceland was in this situation. 2. In the next five years, another goal in protecting nature lies in the government's plans to at least 50 environmental protection areas, small or large. This includes the establishment of a national park in the middle of Iceland, as laid down in the government covenant. I have observed that the establishment of the Middle-West National Park will be the largest individual contribution from Iceland to nature protection in the world so far. But there are other challenges. A future vision of the menstrual economy and its action, with responsible production and consumption, improved recycling and recycling that will greatly reduce the production of waste from the current level. It is estimated to be about 100 billion. K. Each year to these matters during the financial program, there is new funding. In this regard the Ministry has set out the following goals: To increase recycling of household waste from 26% to 2017 to 50% before the end of 2024, in accordance with the European Union Directive. These matters require immediate action. As a whole, I feel that this is a key priority on money to the environment, which means a lot of work. These days are the issues of climate and urgent action is needed. It is an opportunity for large areas in the construction of timbers, increase in land control, and the establishment of a central national park and other peace-infested areas that have the objective of increasing protection and thus the basis for natural uses, especially for international tourism and work. I look forward to the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u258	Madam President. I'm going to discuss a carbon bill first. In the past year, carbon costs have increased by 50%, have tripled since 2010, and still exist government schemes to raise it over the next year. I'm going to talk to you about the carbon money in connection with the construction companies. In Denmark and Germany, decommissioned companies are reimbursed by fuel taxes, and in Norway they receive a reimbursement of carbon costs. On the other hand, such taxes are paid in the form of many companies, which from 1990 onward went from 246,000 tons to 130,000 tons in 2017. In other words, they have reduced their use by 54% and long ago fulfilled the Paris meeting. What, though, causes governments to add a carbon price to a industry that has progressively reduced its footprints? I'm asking if this price, carbon charge, will it achieve its purpose in this sort of process, i.e. In terms of carbon production companies and fishing vessels, which have improved widely in their carbon emissions, as I mentioned. My question to the highest. The minister is: How is it that we are paying a carbon price to the industry that has been best able to lower its carbon foot from 1990, as mentioned? Has the results of the stress of the carbon account been measured, and is there a study to do so?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u259	V.E.G. President. It is true here that the carbon bill has been raised by 50% in this government, if I recall the figures correctly. At the beginning of 2018, then 10% at the beginning of 2018, and planned to re-escate by 10% 2020. That my knowledge is an important control tool to help reduce the use of carbon fuels, no matter what their sector. It is a respectable and very positive case that the project has managed to reduce its emissions, including some of them. Because it has changed, and it is the best and the most positive. I think it's important that this charge is simply leveld in these different sectors. In terms of the benefits, it has not been measured, but we are reevaluating the strategy to try to measure what carbon costs can provide, as have been done in some countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u260	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer. I think it's very important that we don't clean up and charge taxes, like this carbon bill, without research or that research is intended to produce what it produces, whether it produces the results you're looking for, but it's just another new tax. I'm happy if the Minister has plans or plans to be tested for any success. I've mentioned results from the production, which has an economy and an investment that reduces its carbon footprint so much. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to the nation of the highlands that he named here, plans for him. I'm going to ask him if it's his intention to present this bill in opposition to a number of rural communities that consider plans to enter their planning and decision-making initiatives from neighboring communities to the cities.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u261	V.E.G. President. The right to complete this with the carbon pay I consider it a very important impulse, both for companies and for individuals, to switch from carbon fuels to other less contaminated fuels. Regarding a Middleland national park, he is intended to be under a government contract. It is not true that he is being taken over from the province to the city. It's the first time I've heard it, and there's no plans for it, because it's a model or model that's been used to control the Lakeslands scattered. The local event is rich, and a lot of conversations have been made with the communities after this work started last year. I hope it will result in more and more rural areas being able to see benefits in this rather than in the rest.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u262	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for his bright presentation and the financial program that has many good things to do. I would like to use this opportunity only to have a word with the Minister on the issues of the sea, which are involved here and there in a financial program. Searights are stressed there, i.e. The right of the Icelanders to control their own resources. It speaks of the nation's interests in the sea's waters and the affairs of the sea without further definition. As a matter of sustainable fishing, it is said that the oceans are in charge of the State Department in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and are expected to refer to the Department of Marine Education and Environmental and Resources. On page 18. According to 184 financial programme, negotiations for a new agreement on the protection and sustainable use of biological diversity in the ocean outside the jurisdiction of countries are being made. These negotiations are said to be by permission of the President, a huge interest in the oceans, and sustainable use of resources there, to be one of them. It requires a strong international position of interest to protect the nation's interests in the sea's waters for many years. This raises questions. To what interests? How are they defined? Is meant, e.g. The interests of the Icelandic fishing industry? Are the national interests involved in the use of resources from the oceans around the world? Is it possible to equalize the interests of a nation's small companies and interests? Has there been a policy developed in these matters? And if so, has she been introduced to the Council or to the Foreign Affairs Committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u263	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the question, which seems less important to me in the matter of the minister of state and even of the marine emissary, but I am delighted and obliged to answer it again, since the issues of the sea are naturally very important when it comes to environmental and resource matters. In Iceland's focus on this very issue, interest has been emphasized to bring both aspects of practical use and protection. The senator also asks if there was a policy. I understood why. A senator would be involved in the general affairs of the sea. That work has been going on, but it's not over, and that's why I don't think she's been introduced here at a council, at least not as long as I've been a minister. However, this is a subject that I think is urgent, like a whale. A senator does, hoping that we will soon be able to see a nation molded on these matters, even though I cannot promise anything about when it would be. However, this has been going on in a report between these advisers for some long time and quite long before I also entered the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u264	Mr. President. In particular, I bring this up to stress that there may be a number of environmental issues at this point. It's different. During 2017/202019, donations for protection were reduced because of natural winter. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, whether there is a reason to increase money in this area in the years ahead, in view of the increased risk of climate change, as natural and protective activities and monitoring as a result of the above, are particularly mentioned in the section on the main challenges in the seminary. It speaks of the need to keep up the monitoring system because of a natural climate. Is there not good reason for capitalism to follow?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u265	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator introduces a very important matter in my opinion that faces nature. It is true that contributions have dropped slightly in recent years. These are largely contributions that go to the surface of the floodwaters. I agree with him that it would be desirable to have more money there, but it's not. But I'd like to mention in connection with the climate and the funds that go to them it's supposed to go there, for example. for research on acidification of the sea and other factors that are also involved. I think it's very important, though it doesn't show up in this, to mention it here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u266	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for his review and must say that I am proud to support a government that places as much emphasis on climate and environment as it really is. I'll agree with the highest. Ministers that these are indeed the issues and most challenging of all of us in the future. I also welcome the general importance of research, innovation, and science in the financial program. There I think it needs to be closely connected to the environment, because we need to show more solutions when it comes to the environmental problem. Then scientists, research, and innovation should be the key to that. I also had the intention of mentioning only the natural threat, as discussed earlier. One is the funding that could probably be put even more into, but I'd like to mention a particular integration and partnership between certain institutions. I wanted to use this opportunity to mention it, because the Agency has now been transferred from the Environment Ministry to the Department of Social Affairs, the importance of being well-involved in the activities of nature, the awareness of what changes must be made in the organization, in the construction of various activities, and other aspects of the situation in which we truly face changes. Although we all want to reduce emissions and reduce pollution, we still face great changes. If a minister could come in on it a little bit. Besides, I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers into our operations to achieve success in climate. I think we need to work hard at working with our business and our partners. How does a minister see that professional life can be further activated into cooperation with us in reaching the goals we have set in the Paris Convention?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u267	V.E.G. President. Only in the past that I'd like to mention that the Weather Service has been working on a nature study program involving volcanic eruptions, which we now have in mind at the Ministry, and I like it very much. With the cooperation and integration of research, I agree completely with that. Senator. This is an enormously important factor, both in making better use of the funds rather than the knowledge as well. The work being brought up by Iceland's Weather Office for reporting and a summary of the impact of climate change on nature and society in Iceland, a report published last year, is a very good example. I now have these issues a little on the basis of a general point of view in an effort to improve my research status and how to look at them in a slightly larger context. So I honestly agree with it with what it is. Senator. Regarding measures to be successful in climate matters, why? A senator of professional life and a member of the community. We have set up or set up a working field of employment that I expect to be introduced soon, and I have high hopes that there you will be able to work together to set common goals and that professional life will come with us governments. In the year 2040 C.E., the aim of noncarbon. I've had conversations with the companies that are causing the most pollution in Iceland, and they've been very good at coming into this kind of work. In the same way, I believe that cooperation with a group of members is very important, and it's something we're also working on through different plans. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u268	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for the answers and agrees with the very importance of working with professional and social groups in order to succeed. As for science and research, it is also a responsibility to cooperate effectively with the university community and the scientific community in that field. But then I'd like to ask a little questions about it, and get an opportunity here to mention it to the minister, on the other hand, about the irrigation issue, and about the cost and recycling of garbage. How sad it is to see our situation in recycling! We have set our goals in 35%, if I understand correctly, in 2020 and 50% in 2024. How does a minister foresee that we will achieve that goal? Now it's a group of paintings that are also part of the rural community. In fact, I've pointed it out in this chair. I feel that it's the highest. A minister should just take the group of lawsuits over, and then we could move someone else to the countryside, which they might be better equipped to do in close service. [[The president calls.]] But this truly is a whole - souled case that needs to be looked over the land with everything and the best and most reasonable solution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u269	V.E.G. President. First of all, I think it's very important to get more involved with that and with my rural society. Transport and rural Ministers and I are now working to better determine which ways the government could possibly address, both with some support, as required in a government contract, but also to examine especially larger places and how to use this waste as valuable, whether it is in agriculture or in agriculture. With regard to the price and class, and so on, it is clear that we need to do much better on these matters. Perhaps as a first step, I think it's important that we organize, assign the category of household waste as well as from companies and synchronise this between rural society. [[The president calls.]] Maybe that's the first step I'd like to mention.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u270	A respectable president. 19, 29, 35 and 70 are the figures in the financial programmes that have come out to date and represent the number of issues mentioned in the budget. There is clearly an extension after each financial plan and a double from the last one. The money to handle these matters shows a similar interest, which is fine. We may have talked about how much bigger the problem is, but this budget is expected, and I'm worried that the problem is bigger. I wanted to start by coming in only the energy exchange with the highest. Minister. I only discussed this with the secretary of transportation and rural government, the report on a million tons, and how it is suggested measures to reach at least 250,000 tons, just by the energy exchange of cars. But the highest. Transport and Regional Minister led to the Supreme Court. Environment Minister for this, because it is, of course, a plan of action. Yet, the standards and goals under transport are somewhat confusing to me. That's why I'm asking the highest. Environment Minister on this. The purpose as it is stated - then in the transport sector, even if it is under the highest measure of action. Environment Minister - is an increase from 9% 2020, in proportion to eco-friendly cars, to 10% 2024, 1%. V.E.G. The secretary of transportation said it was probably an error. Maybe the highest. Environment Minister only informs me of what's right here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u271	V.E.G. President. I'll have to start by celebrating the statistics that are served here before the Senate, it's a lot of fun. I'd like to add to this statistics that in 2010 climate news came 164 times in the media and 997 times in 2018. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] I also ask myself, " What is the paradox of those numbers, but that is another matter. ' But on the basis of the budget, I want to make it clear that there are natural more donations for climate than found in the environmental context. These include all aspects of public transportation, etc. So to the immediate future, if only the city line was taken, it is a very large task that cannot help but be counted as the income of that category. In terms of the energy exchange, I have to admit that I don't remember the exact figures that we're looking at in the Senate resolution for the energy exchange program, but not during the period you're talking about here, but that's where we're talking about 2030, whether it was 40% more than 50%, if I remember correctly. What we're considering in the Action Programme is that roadway emissions will be dropped by about 50% in 2030, i.e. reduction of this by 50 percent in those years. It's about 35% compared to 2005, if I remember it correctly. That's what we're looking at in this context, and I remind you, there may be the biggest bite for us in the direct commitments of Iceland to succeed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u272	A respectable president. That's the big one. Minister just into the next step on the questions. It has to do with the measures, the costs and the benefits. Here comes the highest. Minister inside with some figures I expect to see them in the next version of the Action Programme for the benefit of transport energy exchange. The question is, When do we get to see this? Because cost and profit are important for financial management. And to make use of the time at the end, the numbers are 131, 158 and 105 are the highest. Minister of speeches here at the council. 158 is the fastest speech, and 105 is the slowest.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u273	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna try to talk as fast as I can so I can raise the number mentioned here. In terms of cost-benefit assessment and benefits, as was the case when we conducted a prior plan, we knew well that it was going to attack these analyses that are now being carried out. We plan to publish a new plan, updated plan, later this year. It's important, and I totally agree with it. The figures I mentioned earlier about the energy exchange are actually in the current operation programme, to be stated. We're working on this now, including. with the carbon binding, it gradually becomes more readily available in the form of gaps. A senator mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u274	A respectable president. I welcome the opportunity to discuss the environmental issues at the highest level. Environment and resource secretary for the discussion of financial programmes for 2020/2024, a growing focus. Emphasis in the five sectors, which under the topic range are largely focused on protection, monitoring, and building up the vegetation and soil resources, thereby affecting carbon emissions and increased binding and support of Iceland's targets on climate and the international objectives of non-carbonisation. The subjects in the category are worthy as well as the challenge of complexing as most of the objectives of building, protecting, and exploiting together in the implementation of existing tasks. This applies, e.g. for the aim of increasing annual quantities and healing, recovery of ecosystems and new forestry. This is where I believe that my cooperation with the districts of the country and farmers of all our habitats is important, and I especially want to draw attention to the opportunities involved in the agreements that have already been made between wood and farms. There have been agreements with forest farmers about four times as much forest as they are now missing. It has everything ready; land, active force, organization, and plans already invested in by the government. In other words, these farmers have committed themselves to taking part of their land in their care of forestry. I would like to ask: Might it be wise to stop and see if there are even more goals in this country along with the development of woodforests, such as the aims of carbon binding, saunas, outdoors, and climate - related agriculture? And like: Would it be possible to take better care of young forests? [[The president calls.]] And finally, the main question: Does financial planning provide room for up-to-date negotiations on the law? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u275	V.E.G. President. To answer the last question, the answer to that question is yes. With regard to these factors. A senator entered and subject to the objectives of concurrent forestry, other than forestry that can be left out, can be of biological diversity, may be of economic reasons, etc., I just want to say, "Oh, yes." Indeed, it is important to consider that more than one objective when it comes to action, whether in forestry, land healing, or recovery of wetlands. Actually, I think it's a key. The key to these matters is not secondary. It's a lot to talk about, including. In foreign fields. I have just returned from the UN Environmental Assembly, where I stressed this point. We must look at action in the environment not only from some objective or objective of a single international agreement but also from different environmental goals, different environmental challenges. So I honestly agree with this point at the moment. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u276	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister's answer is that with this interwork, we can achieve the very best use of funds. Not at all. Last year, there were agreements on marine and coastal systems. It is only natural, therefore, that one of the environmental projects is the development of a coastal region structure for the East and the West. I'd like to ask you how that work means and whether financial resources are guaranteed to complete the job next year. Other projects include increasing land transplantation, the shape of national parks in the middle of the country, and an increase in the benefits of closer to a community of peaceful zones. In this context, I would like to ask specifically about opportunities that might include a neighboring guard, as I would like to call it, i.e. that there would be an agreement with the inhabitants of a rural population for a share of a ban on peace-infested areas. Such projects may result in great success for both parties and benefits. Is there such a project to be implemented?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u277	V.E.G. President. With regard to marine and coastal areas, the task is to start. All the committees and counsels that are to be arranged have been put in place. And if I recall this correctly, I think that the first common meeting of the regional councils on the Austlands and the West is now in the beginning of April. We've got funding for this to run out. The time frame on which I'm not 100% clear, but I can find out why. A senator. Regarding the peace-lit areas and whatever. A senator called a beautiful phrase a neighboring guard a very interesting approach that I think we are in part doing today. Often, it is local people who are guarding the peace - related areas, especially when there are full - time jobs, but also when it comes to summer work or so in high - time times. But I think it would be very interesting to look into this further, especially with a project that we are working on now about nature protection by farmers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u278	Mr. President. It is a pleasure to put high priority on financial matters. There is no need, and you might even ask if there is enough to be done. Perhaps it is time to start praying to the highest degree. Environment Minister to make sure that this money will not be taken from him if it is necessary to take further steps because of the flash of economic paint. But I'm just going to step back to the chapter that speaks of environmental management. It caught my attention that action No. 5 deals with farmers on climate - related agriculture. The question that this cooperation should involve is, Is there any explanation? In connection with this, the report says that agriculture is a annual reduction in agricultural greenhouse gas emissions, with goals set by about 2%. The target is -2% in 2020 and again -2% in 2024. Somehow I don't think it's a very ambitious goal and I'd like to hear a Minister of the Environment on whether it would need to be more stable on earth, especially in view of the fact that if I've read the information from the EEA, agriculture is the third largest emissions of greenhouse gases in Iceland, even though it's far below the highest level.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u279	V.E.G. President. A minister will try to sit on the money as he possibly can in the event of a government cut-down. Regarding the question of cooperation with farmers on climate-friendly agriculture, this is a most exciting project. We have been developing projects with sheep that initially help identify what is being released and point out ways to reduce emissions. Then the meaning is to try to develop an impulse system so that farmers can enter an increasing carbon binding. We hope to finish developing and molding this project this year. It's really exciting and fun to deal with. It is true that agriculture is a major global sector that is widely released. I can't remember the number in Iceland, whether or not it's 101⁄25%, or what it is. However, agriculture is one of the most difficult areas to reduce emissions. It is not least due to visceral disintegration in animals. On the other hand, I hope that by improving feeding, it will be more effective. But the numbers are as good as any. A senator mentions - what I can mention is that by 2030, we are according to the strategy to hope that the contractions would occur by about 10% during the period of 10, 12 years.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u280	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Environment Minister for Answers. There is something else I would like to mention that is indirectly linked with agriculture and a discussion of wholesome Icelandic agriculture, and that is a spill. We are concerned, and likely in many respects, with diseases that can assault livestock and, as is true of humans. It is set aside that the reading of waste water can be of great importance in this regard. I would like to ask the minister about the next steps he will take in order to close these matters so that we can look after animals and humans. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u281	V.E.G. President. We're in cooperation with the secretary of transportation and rural government to start work with developing suggestions for better accessing irrigation problems in Iceland. There was a campaign, if I recall correctly between 1995 and 2007, where special support from the State was given to them. We are starting secular work these days to shape how to get them to a better course, as mentioned in a government covenant. I think this turns first to the areas where nothing has really been done, and secondly, the areas where we are, by far, the largest of the irrigation and how we can try to use the flow that is available in the process as a product in the spirit of the circuit economy, either in agriculture or in agriculture.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u282	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The Environment and Resource Minister for his introduction to the debate tonight on the financial agenda for the next five years. It's very ambitious for a minister and it's a pleasure to see how hard we are going to take this crisis that's happening right now, which is the climate problem. I'm going to read up a little, with the permission of a president: ▪ It must be respected for mankind's apology that much of the damage we have done on earth was inadvertently done. Although ignorance has long since been an apology to the Icelanders, it was the case when we started wetlands in many parts of the country. During the years following the war, and well after that, farmers were paid to dry up wetlands, and, of course, we were overrun. I want to tell you that this is an estimated 34,000 miles [34,000 km] in Iceland. We've dried up no less than 2,200 miles2 of land. It is estimated that 73% of the total greenhouse gas emissions taking place in Iceland today. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of how fast and well he intends to proceed in an effort to shovel into this ditch again. Is there a plan for the future, something special planned each year within the box, and how much? How long does a Minister think it will take until we close the last ditch?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u283	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator enters a very important case, which is the wetlands, and he recovers, to shovel back into the ditches that were once buried. Then we're not talking about all ditches, we're talking about specifically those canals, and there's plenty of those in a country that's not being used. Here's the question: How fast and how well this should be done. The work of land transplants and forestry is now being done together on a three - year plan on this subject, and it will likely be evident in this April or May on the exact appearance of these plans. I'd like to mention it in particular, because the senator comes into this, that, on average, there are 23 tons of acres, if I recall those figures correctly, from those most precarious swamps. As soon as we shovel into these ditches, our main concern is to prevent this emissions. So this is a quick action that is performed immediately. If I remember that correctly, I'll give you about 20 tons of net per hectare. That's extremely important. Whether this is related to national obligations or not, this has to do with how much carbon dioxide enters the atmosphere. In the end, nature does not make any difference as to whether these measures are directly related to national obligations. My plans are to work on this rapidly and safely, yet it is based on the goods and values of science and research. We may have come alone in this regard, in view of our land supply and forestry. That is why I assume this will start a little slower, but they factor, since we are less well prepared but with greater weight in the years ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u284	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Yes, in view of the tremendously serious consequences of extension surgery, but as we have seen, about 73% of all emissions from these swamp canals are a little sad to hear that we should not have gone further. There is one other tiny thing I would like to mention that terrifys me a bit. We have a beautiful, beautiful pool, hidden from nature bulbs, Seavallaug, also known as the Sea of Ireland. We got to see the pictures yesterday in the papers, I think it was in DV or on the visi.is, I don't remember where it was, of the most amazing sad kind of person. This is where tourists are trusted to come and enjoy being in this pool if they choose. Such association, however, is pathetic. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask a minister if it's possible to keep up with a follow-up on these natural bulbs, such as Selvavallail.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u285	V.E.G. President. That's what I'm talking about. Of course, a senator is very serious, and it is boring to see it. I have also read in the magazines that appropriate organizations are trying to deal with these issues. In general, with regard to a question. A senator may be the best and most efficient way to monitor our valuable cultural and natural memory that they are emancipated. By means of the declaration of peace, there's landkeeping, and it's making money more money. It has been shown that since it has been increasing, it is easier to keep in touch and to control traffic. So I strongly recommend your privacy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u286	Mr. President. If I have a chance to come back up, I'm going to continue with the carbon, say a little more about the fish industry and the fishing companies, and their contribution to reduce the number of their carbon footprints. This sector has been equipped with economic management and a number of substances have reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 54% since 1990, thus meeting up with the Paris Convention and better. This has been done by the industry, for example. by electronization of fish factorys, general management of the article that everyone knows, investments in new technologies and new ships. In all of our competitive countries, the work industry enjoys a special exception in such taxes as the carbon, but it is taxed here by charges that are not available whether it will bring real results. There is no evidence that the tax is bringing real environmental results. It's just another tax. That's what I wanted to say when I had the chance. I'm going to ask the highest. Minister on other things affecting the ghost network in the ocean. Today, it is well - known that in the sea around the country, there are many nets that cause premature deaths of a number of sea creatures, as we have seen many tragic examples in the media and on the Internet. I'm asking the highest. Minister if he has made plans to reduce the number of measures required by the Ministry, if it is a plan for action, and if so?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u287	V.E.G. President. I don't think there's any reason to answer this any further with the carbon bill, I already did. I think I've answered the questions why. A senator, therefore, uses his time further in the second matter as a matter of course. A senator mentioned and turned to ghost nets in the sea, which I think are very worthy of a brief discussion. Today, powerful groups of associates, such as the Blue Army and others, have been involved in some aspect of beach cleaning. I think I've last seen yesterday in the media hearing of some mighty guy in a swing picking up a net like this. But this is something that we need to consider overall, and that is why there was a plastic surgery proposal that I received from the staff I appointed last year. These factors are included and suggestions are provided. We're working on that proposal now, and I'm expecting that we'll remember in the next few months, hopefully next month, plan that. It is also a pleasure to relate that in this new financial program, new funds are introduced to the so - called cycle economy. It is, in fact, there. to deal with consumption and waste, plastic pollution, food waste, and other related factors. A senator came in.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u288	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of this answer. Of course, I am happy if governments are considering this whole matter and expecting any action on that subject to the government because we have seen the consequences of this. Also, there is prevention in this regard, i.e. to monitor more closely those who drop this or miss out. I'm also going to mention radiation pollution in the ocean. It is well - known that during the Cold War the superpowers sank such waste, radioactive waste, in the sea, little protection. It's a time bomb, a ticking time bomb. We're a fishing nation, and that's why I'm asking: "How does the radio pollution monitoring happen in the ocean outside Iceland? What studies of radioactive pollution have been conducted in the sea? If such tests have not been carried out, what investigation will the Minister conduct?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u289	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator for entering the vital issue of radiation pollution in the sea and agree with it. This is a point I'd like to take a closer look at. I can't answer the exact questions the Senator raised. These are things that don't hear under my department. On the other hand, I would like to discuss the matter further with the senator, and we might be able to follow up on that discussion. But I don't know enough of them to answer one person, two and three.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u290	Mr. President. One thing is certain, we must change our eating habits if we are to succeed in fighting global warming and acidification. And to be successful in this grandest joint project in mankind, public needs change and political will and the courage of the government. I feel that the policy of the Icelandic government can be far more bold in these matters. In Iceland's climate management program needs to be filled with projects that we see have success so that people are willing to work. Some of the things we must do can be addressed, for this requires that we change ourselves and what we are accustomed to do. One task that is not one of the challenges is that governments encourage increased production of Icelandic vegetables. According to some research designed for the Union of Gardening Farmers, the EU's carbon spores are as low as 26% of what is left behind by imported vegetables. On average, it is about 50 percent of emissions, in favor of production. This alone shows that there is a high environmental benefit from increasing domestic product production of vegetables. Normally, the carbon cycle of plant life is much less than that of the animal kingdom. Government policies indicate that the land will have been leveled with carbon before that time. Only by extensive and varied measures will this be done. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he feels it is possible to fund the incentive to increase vegetable production in Iceland as part of a climate program.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u291	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the question. I believe and share it with the senator that not only the production of Icelandic vegetables in this context of climate is important but also the use of vegetables. There, it can remember a lot about changing only a little of your diet. True, many people have taken up a new lifestyle and have become road or vegetarians, which are the best, but others may have been reduced in meats. All of this matters. In terms of funding some kind of incentive for the production of Icelandic vegetables, I feel that it can be considered. I don't know exactly what kind of encouragement was. A senator can be a variety of forms. She can turn even. as consumers, but as much as manufacturers themselves. Encouragement may also include public support or discounts, some of which have been given out of electricity and other factors that go to domestic gardening. These are all things that have been discussed in recent years. I find it exciting to look at this, but we need to discuss a little bit more carefully what encouragement is. We can do that later.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u292	Mr. President. Let us do so when we have a little more time. However, the government climate program needs to touch every case and every case in the state. When taking the Council of filmmakers for the filming of a woman to war, Benedikt Erlingsson said something about the need for politicians to praise my people from everything in order to cope with global warming, but they could, in turn, offer more love. It was beautiful to me. Is this not exactly what we need to do? Do we not have to change our eating habits, reduce our consumption of carbon dioxide, and then fill it with more affection and compassion?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u293	V.E.G. President. Love, love, love. I just agree with more love in life and in a job. Yeah, I'm not gonna say that I almost told you, it's best not to. I'll take it from the bottom of my heart, thank you very much. A senator is also here to introduce this point. What is involved in reducing consumption and waste is just what I stressed to the current financial agenda. It may not have been a lot of money to talk about now, we know what economics are now. That is why it is about 100 million a year, but now permanently involved in spending many projects related to consumption and production and waste, what we can put under one hat and call the economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u294	Mr. President. Like what? paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson came in earlier, in a number of respects, a very significant increase in the financial programme in climate and environment, which is very good. It is also very good to see that the money seems to be involved in some way and, of course, you could do better, but it seems to me at the most. A minister has done very well in preparing a good plan. I would like to include just the standards - because, of course, the best plan in the world would be useless if we could not measure the results. I have, in the past, criticized that in the government climate program there are 34 significant factors that are actually missing by the important figures, i.e. how much carbon dioxide extraction is expected due to this procedure. The financial plan speaks of completing the 34 good measures, but we have no assessment of what it really does. Similarly, there is an increase in the number of peace - related areas from 114 to 145 by 2020 and in 165 by 2024. It's just cool. But a peaceful area could be relatively small, as if it were possible to appease my backyard. I don't know if the mortgage or the housemate would be good at it. It's not that much good, and we may have to discuss just the size, the total share of the country that would take care of such an area. Point to Proposition E.O. The Wilson biologist who spoke of protecting half the earth, and then we could start at 50%. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Can we not get a slightly better standard, both of carbon dioxide emissions and about the amount of land we are going to protect?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u295	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for what I am about to mention now from the past discussion, from his love for me, and from his warm words to me. So love is clearly growing in this room, that's good. Except, of course, for that as a matter of course. A senator mentioned what would be the response to the actions outlined in the Action Programme, so it is absolutely true that it has not been evaluated, since it was always the meaning of doing so after the first stage of the plan published in the priors. So we're working on it. It is easier to evaluate for some procedures than for others. I'll take as an example that it's probably easier, if you like. to restore wetlands or set many acres of land, to tell how much it is, but to assess various measures, such as Teaching, which is simply impossible to add to. So this depends on action what you can do. To reach the peace-lit areas, you are absolutely right. A senator, to make a number, yes, that's fine. What we're naturally doing here are also some plans that we're already there and we're working on, i.e. A frame plan. It has one 18 areas, if I remember correctly. Then there are 20 areas or so under the old nature protection programme, some of which are restricted. Others are very large areas of territory. So I'd specifically mention the plans for a highland park that would get us close to the 50%. A senator, as a whole for the whole country, mentioned in his case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u296	Madam President. Thank you for your excellent answer. Of course, you do not assume that everything will be measurable, and there is a risk when people demand that everything be measurable. Of course, it would be good to have such a standard. So it would be nice to know from the highest level. A minister whether we can expect the next financial programme, in a year, to produce some model, or at least something that is somewhat in order to measure the main measures, as well as whether there is any chance that we could complete the central population now in the fall. 45% of the country would be protected, if I didn't forget. So finally, since I'm knocking on a promise that I don't know if it's realistic to believe it will be realized. Could be the top. A minister would try to make a list of how much wetlands could be restored within the financial framework, perhaps in percent or in the interest of others?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u297	V.E.G. President. Yeah, I think I should be able to guarantee that we'll have better numbers for a year because we're working on these issues in terms of the Action Programme this year. With a central nation park, when it would be precisely established, I can't guarantee anything. The committee, this transnational committee, is working to produce in the fall and the work is on the right side. Question question. I'm sorry, I can't say that this is the case, but the situation is in progress, i.e. Plans for this at Land Health and Forest.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u298	Madam President. I can, in various ways, agree with members of Congress that it is certainly good to see that there is an increase in environmental and natural protection at various levels. I'm not going to get myself to have any expensive or massive compliments, though, because I still feel like we're still having a little Catholic approach, if we can say so, on the environment. We've decided to increase our travels to the priest for forgiveness of sins, while we've decided to increase the size of our trip to the town's waves and even extend our residences there. We build here on a economy where we, for example, we live. increase slightly in forest development or recovery of wetlands but in the same time, the subsidies make up large amounts of carnivorous waste. In many ways, we build our economic growth on a worldwide rise in so - called sophistication, which is hardly worse for us personally than when we fly. We are a society with enormous levels of consumption but quite unbelievablely poor performance in recycling. Apart from the idea that we may have been exposed to here, that we merely work to make the nation sick, I wondered, " What can we do to offset this? ' I'd be interested to hear the highest food. It belongs to a minister, e.g. Regarding the international flight. When will it be our time to pay our dues there? When will we have to increase our ambitions in some sort of carbon equation or reduce our emissions from the flight? I may come to more parts of a second talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u299	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator is eager to make such fine points, perhaps especially regarding the international flight. It is clear that global and globally similar in Iceland has increased dramatically in recent years. Perhaps a paradox is that while the flight has been very important to the Icelandic economy, it also increases our social status. At the international level, we are now working on an international agreement that attracts international flight. I can't remember whether it's 2020 or 2021 that's going to be ready for such a deal. I would agree with the senator that you think it's a little late. This is something that you feel should have come in a lot earlier, and this should have been done along with many of the important issues discussed in the Paris convention, including the Paris convention. But this is how these things happen one by one at the international level. What we can do in the meantime, however, if we can say so, there is nothing to stop us from doing that, both as individuals but also that companies have a more ambitious aim to reduce emissions by all the technological changes they can achieve. If I recall correctly, I think Icellands have managed to reduce emissions by 5% over some years by replacing specific technologies. So it is natural to set goals for noncarbon and work to achieve it by performing operations but also give clients the opportunity to do so and their carbon equal movements. That's what I do personally.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u300	Madam President. Yes, I think that may be my concern, when the flight becomes a reality, our sustainable growth in tourism will be tested, when the cost of flying is equivalent to its environmental costs. Air travel will likely be considerably more expensive in the future. It is also this change of attitude that we ourselves need to cultivate. Buying a solution of sin by increasing forestry or by filling a ditch is not always enough for us. We need to reduce emissions, and we need to use the economic motivation we know. We need to tax pollution. We're not going anywhere else. We need not be afraid to tax a good - looking emissions from fossil fuels wherever it can be found. Above all, we must do much better in the economy or recycling. That's where I strongly encourage the highest. Ministers to make significant cooperation with the local government level, where you think you are ambitious, are rather much in comparison with where we should be involved. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u301	V.E.G. President. I'd like to make a subject for whatever it is. A senator came in and turned to the cost of the environment. This is the type of cost that falls into which it is often not accepted, what is called the English - language English language of the same age. It's something I agree with the senator that we need to intervene when we consider these matters. With regard to waste, I'm looking at it first, as a matter of duty. It's not like today. It would include domestic waste, as would happen from companies. This is one of the most important things I think. It is also important to consider whether this is not to be a better match between rural society. We don't share in the same way in all our communities. I'd like to think it's a first step, but there's a lot of other things, including... is to consider now the tax in price, since it is far too cheap to grow as it is today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u302	A respectable president. We're talking about a financial programme for the next year, and we're talking about the secretary of the environment and resource. I can't see in the future any mention of a firebox of forests. We have witnessed throughout Europe and America the burning of forests, and it appears that no one is thinking of making a burning chamber. In Iceland, we may feel that there is no danger that the forest could burn, but there may be a drought, unfortunately. There does not seem to be any thinking or direction in that regard, at least is not in the program I was reading. We know that this also applies to tendon burns and moss, and we know what happened at the time of the Snæfells, where everything was out of control for the sake of both animal life and so on. I want to know why there's no such thing as this in the plan. Then there is the category of garbage, which is in total disrepute. I live in Hafnarfjördur, and I'm sorry, there's no way to sort out garbage in any way except the right magazines, and then the rest goes in the same barrel. That's amazing. Besides, it's about the young Protestants who always show up here at noon on Friday. I don't think they're very comfortable with these future environmental programmes. They want and demand much more. It's the highest. Does not a minister agree that we should say that this is only the first step this year, and then we must give well in the coming years?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u303	V.E.G. President. They're about to pop into speakers right now, The Guðmunds. That's fun. Just about that as a matter of course. A senator mentioned the dangers of bridges, both in forestry and in other general plants. I understand that rural society and government development have been working on a map map to determine where the greatest dangers are and how to deal with them. I also see an opportunity with the new deforestation bill now being discussed at the council, that it can come through national programmes, and increase cooperation with rural communities with regional programmes to take matters into consideration, which are very important. The Micra fires were named, which is my company. It has been some 13 years since they took place, and it was really amazing that they had much less influence than they thought, fortunately. Still, it may have been a good thing to think that there would be no harm to workers or such. I could ask a long story about exactly where it went over and which streams it stopped and any farmers there put weights on the scales. But I'm not going to. This has been the subject of today's waste discussion. In some places, the classification of garbage is good, while in others it is not. What I have stressed is that the family of waste groups, both from homes and from businesses, and that I try to achieve more harmonization between rural society. As for the last thing to focus on climate protests, I'll celebrate and listen to and have them. I've met a representative of the great organization that's been here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u304	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Environment Minister for Answers. I would also like to ask him if we should not try to be a bit original in our thinking and to invent some source of encouragement and a prize for good ideas about the environment. For my information, I saw an excellent idea about the day in connection with the vehement habit that many people have to ski in all directions. Someone cleaned up and just spit on his hand, using it as a gel. He saved very quickly and protected the environment by reducing his age. I think it's a very good idea and it's worth a lot of money. We should encourage and reward such pioneers and make them come up with a number of environmental issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u305	V.E.G. President. I'm so lucky to be thin hair and almost get bald and don't have to worry about what kind of gel I'm using, fortunately I'll just say, because I'm not sure I'd want to go that way as a dog. A senator mentioned. To this end, I agree that praising people is often a means of success. The best thing to say is a number of environmental awards, including on the day of the environment, which begins in April and attracts to the environment of enterprises and on the day of Icelandic nature in the autumn, which attract both the journalist prices for nature protection coverage and for individuals as well. Then we're developing in connection with some proposals for plastic surgery that we're about to announce later, and I'm going to let the senator wait because my time is up.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u306	A respectable president. In short, I'm explaining financial plans for the 2020/2024 issues that represent me as Minister of Foreign Affairs, i.e. Environment area 4, foreign languages, and 35 international development cooperation. The main projects involved in these areas are international cooperation, security and defence, foreign trade, civil service and national rights, and development cooperation and humanitarian matters. The main objective of foreign service is to ensure that the nation is independent, secure, free, productive, and enjoying human rights. Its role is to care for international interests in politics, commerce, and culture and to provide effective civil service. Iceland's foreign policy is based on clear values of democracy, human rights, equality, sustainable development and peaceful solutions guided by the UN's global objective. I note that the development of the development of these two issues will be somewhat different in the period. At the one hand, donations to foreign affairs are expected to drop from 11.8 billion dollars. 10.7 billion dollars. in the season, about $1 billion. However, contributions to global development from about 6 billion dollars increase. for one 8.8 billion dollars, or about 2.7 billion. The first thing I do is face up to case number 4, foreign affairs, which is up to foreign service. The reports of a reduction in foreign affairs during the period are mainly two, as well as maintenance in the period. On the one hand, contributions to the Strategies Fund of the EEA are reduced, and the reduction in temporary tasks is explained by the decline over time. This is premeditation in the Council of North Pole, Iceland's National Institute of Human Rights, and the expansion of foreign services to prepare Baltrexit, as well as other smaller projects. Other tasks either take place or decrease as a result of increased maintenance. For foreign service, it will be a challenge to ensure a successful closure of temporary projects and to handle important tasks in such circumstances. In the environ ment, Iceland's preeminence in the Arctic Council and the Council of Ministers and interest protection for the passage of Britain from the EU is at hand. In addition, there is a significant contribution from Iceland to the administration of UNESCO on behalf of the Northern countries in the year 2021-52025. The EEA contract work will continue to be improved in accordance with the government's priorities by strengthening the position of the Directorate and the embassy of Brussels. Iceland is an armyless nation that ensures its safety and protection with its active international cooperation and involvement in the Atlantic Alliance. The defence agreement against the United States is a key factor in national safety and protection policy as well as the cooperation of Member States in the Atlantic Community and neighboring countries. In this cooperation, we guarantee the operation of the Icelandic air defense system, marine monitoring systems, communication systems and other manpowers and equipment in Iceland. The main challenge we face in our defense work is the gathering of the maintenance needs of a defense workers, which is a drag bite of our ability to keep our security and protection bonds. In view of the changed security and protection status of the North Atlantic, it is important that the facilities and equipment are in place in Iceland for fellow workers. This applies not only to manpower but also to host support, including air space monitoring, training, or submarineting. The financial programme here for the General Assembly is not expected to include special funding on the basis of these projects. The diagnosis and priorities of essential maintenance are being met and the results of the analysis, as well as the cost scheme, will be submitted to the following weeks. I now approach the 35 International Development Team, a new language field that was formerly part of the topic field of 4 foreign languages. International Development Teams are a major source of Icelandic foreign policy and an important link in Iceland's national security policy. With active involvement in developing cooperation, Iceland endeavors to fulfill its political, legal, and moral obligations as a responsible nation in the international community. There's still more than 2.7 billion available for the material sector over the period, or more than 6 billion. of about 8.8 billion. at the end of the plan. This increase is mainly due to government policies on developing cooperation, but donations as a share of the gross income are expected to rise from 0.29% in 2020 to 0.35% in 2022. The main work of the field is the two - sided and multinational development team in cooperation with national and international partnerships, multi-national institutions and non-human rights, equality and sustainability in Iceland's development work that supports the UN's global objectives. Special stress is that Iceland's expertise is making the best use of combating poverty, e.g. in the field of geologic development and fishing. A new cooperation fund related to the job life is aimed at strengthening cooperation with enterprises that contribute to sectoral development and sustainable growth in developing countries. In the new development team for the period 2019,2023, now available before the General Assembly, Iceland's main objective of developing cooperation is to see. [[The president calls.]] Foreign service is one of the least in Europe, even though the nation is few. [[The president calls.]] The task does not all take into account an appeal number. I don't think I can go any further with the speech, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u307	Madam President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for a fine speech. There is nothing new or unexpected that appeared in the talk, the list of projects primarily, as it may be in harmony with the financial program, which is primarily a list of government policies. The topic area is not being broken down very accurately, i.e. In whatever money's supposed to go that way. However, the highest grade is correctly observed. Minister that they're cutting down. There is a decrease in the amount of money set up in the foreign service, which I think is very bad at the time a minister talks about how small the service is. A country like Iceland, a small island nation in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean, has to have a strong foreign service. So it is sad to see that there is not much ambition to promote it in this program, except there will be some things that we simply don't see here. I'd like to ask a minister - and start with one little thing, perhaps - so on page 6. 181 in the section on environmental policies burn, future vision and primary objective, the text of the country's baseline value. Have the people agreed to have a baseline position, or are they primarily discussing the baseline state of foreign service? I'd like to ask the highest. For more information, please contact the branch office of Jehovah's Witnesses or write to the publishers of this magazine. 183 discussing the successful implementation of the EEA Convention. I can't figure out what she's supposed to be like. Is this not a matter of her being right, first of all? That we're supposed to do this deal the way we should? Then I would like to ask, for on the same page, people are quite good with them from a temporary session of the United Nations Human Rights Council. It also speaks of not strengthening the advocate, and it refers to Strasbourg. Iceland is probably the only country that doesn't have a permanent agent or embassy, or what they call it, a local employee. It's taken care of by good people from Paris, if I know it. The same can be said of ÖSE, Vienna. There are good people who do that work. [[The president calls.]] Yet, is it not true that there is a duplication in boasting about a seat in the Human Rights Council and that they have no ambition to promote these institutions?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u308	A respectable president. I have always felt that there is no direct connection between financial contributions and success. I think that's a lot of it, just a lot of it. But as for that, as a matter of course. A senator asks about - and I thank him for the talk - I think that when we talk about the nation's baseline values, I thought it was a good thing. But it's probably a matter of interest. With regard to the intensive implementation of the EEA Convention, there is no problem. A senator to come to a big case that I have given a great deal of importance to and to the current government. It was one of the first things I did as Minister of Foreign Affairs to set up work on increasing EEA interests. When we applied for participation in the EU, we took down much of the interest care we had, which is simply because we have had representatives of every facade in Brussels that should be monitored, especially at the early stage, since we can have the most impact. Of course, after that we can do certain things. But one thing is certain that if we are not in the area and are not doing our own homework, no one will care for us. That's what's being referred to here when it comes to the successful implementation of the EEA Convention. Likewise, under the leadership of Björn Bjarnason, I set out to study these matters, including those. On the performance. I believe we can do much better when it comes to implementing the EEA Convention - and I can do it better later in the discussion. The Human Rights Council is in Geneva, and we have an excellent constant committee there and an office. I guess that's what it's like. A senator referring to the Council of Europe in Strasbourg. We have to prioritize things, but in terms of human rights advice, it's very human, and I think we can be very proud of what we've done so far and I don't expect it to change. Regarding Vienna: Even though we have taken down the embassy, we still have a regular committee, and I think we have fulfilled that role perfectly. But I think it was a wise step to close the embassy in Vienna.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u309	President. I think the highest. Ministers have not heard or been listening to what I was asking him about. I was wondering if it could be a minor contradiction in boasting about a seat in the UN Human Rights Council and not caring for our activities in Strasbourg and Vienna. Then I'm not trying to downplay the amazing staff that's working for us there. That's not what it's about. It's simply that we're the only state, as I know, which is not in Strasbourg, with its offices and from there. And we've also cut down in Vienna - the same time as we're beating ourselves on a seat in the Human Rights Council, talking about us as spokesmen of human rights, and, at the same time not as I should, in the way that I'm describing us, in the way that we're doing this, these big projects. I would have thought that to live up to our names, we should have full office in both places. Ministers are correct in saying that often costs need not reflect results. But it is clear that when we have a small foreign service, we have a country that needs great contact with the outside world, we cannot watch that the sails there are being summed up, as the minister is suggesting.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u310	A respectable president. There's just no contradiction in this. There is no one, of course, who has claimed it, least of all abroad. There have been less discussions about what has been done in the Human Rights Council here than in abroad. I'd like to draw attention to it, Mr. Honorable President, that it has been taken for the first time - in the way that we brought it up - the matter of Saudi Arabia, the violation of human rights. That's the first time, after Iceland and I were ahead of it. Human rights groups have officially reviewed Iceland's progress in terms of Geneva's Human Rights Council. It's not something that comes from the government or the government, it's from human rights organization that has given us special attention to what we've done well in this regard. So there is no contradiction in your doing well in the Human Rights Council and taking care of this both in Strasbourg and in Vienna. It didn't go unnoticed. A senator may be critical of what we are doing there. [[The president calls.]] We always look for ways to do things in the most practical way and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u311	Madam President. The financial program says that in the next five years, foreign contributions are dropped by hundreds of millions of dollars. In 2024, it is estimated that there will be over a billion donations below 2020. Part of this is explained by the provisional requirement, but another is a temporary project that is completed during the period. Madam President. I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. Increasing international cooperation has never been as important as it is today. Our cooperation with other countries has brought to us amazing wealth, economic, cultural, and social value. Besides that, mankind faces tremendous challenges that require greater and more ambitious cooperation in nations than ever before. It is sufficient to mention the threat of climate. Global warming ignores borders and will require more cooperation and more drastic and costly action. Or do the minister may disagree with me that global warming requires more cooperation and, therefore, more effort? Iceland is one of the richest people in the world. In 2013 a timely development team plan was adopted in Iceland to reach the UN target of 0.7% of national production in 2019 C.E. High-level party. In fact, a minister has ignored the will of the Generals since then, and this government intends only to climb to 0.355% in a five - year period. I must admit that I think it is absolutely ambitious, Madam President, apart from the fact that over a third of this slips into a domestic assistance that is much higher than any other percentage in our controlled countries. So I must ask: If not over the next five years, when will you see the top? A minister will see to it that he meets the UN target of 0.7% of national production?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u312	A respectable president. I don't know why I'm being ashamed of this plan. It's something that's laid out, no matter what the money comes to the lawsuit, you try to treat them as well as you can. It is always possible, and the group of paintings is the means by which you can make use of any dollar that comes in it. There's a priority on the government, and there's been the highest interest in health and social matters, especially in the matter of pensioners. In recent years, however, there has been an enormous number of cases, and these are the contributions to development. There's a huge increase. I have doubts, of course, I have not compared that no nation has increased this as rapidly as we Icelanders are doing. From 2011 on, the increase in real value is 91.4%, no less. It is our job to make the most of this money. I think it is normal, and I would think it would be better to have the structure in a number of ways, not just in the Ministry of State, but that we put some money on it when we take a certain task. I'm giving you the premeditation of the North Pole, the Human Rights Council, the prehumanity of the Northern Union and the Baltic Union, to name something. But when they finish, they're done. You ask them to make use of your assignments, and when they are finished, they are drawn together with money. Then there are some points I pointed to in my introduction that we need to examine specifically. But the big thing is that we decide in the next budget what goes on to the jury, and then we keyly try to handle the money as much as possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u313	Madam President. Yes, in recent years, we have already improved our donations for developing cooperation, and others may be unnatural. In recent years, economic conditions have improved dramatically, and this is in terms of proportion. But the UN aims at 0.7% and we agreed. We're not gonna make it. Is that not contrary when we could be doing so much more? Now it was the highest. A minister recently in Malawi saw firsthand how much help we have done. It is a very difficult situation there. It's our job to help. Otherwise, I finally wanted to grab what was best. A minister earlier asked: " Can it be understood that if a minister were to be hired alone, there would be much more to the jury than is being done here?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u314	A respectable president. If the one here had a choice, there'd be a lot different things. I don't have time in a minute to cross it. But what I'm saying is, when we've decided what we're going to do and we're going to do it in financial terms, we're going to get it out of our goals, that's what we're going to do. What do we want to accomplish with our foreign service? Hv. A senator rightly points to such things as global warming and the development aid. It's going together. We are, for example. with the United Nations School we have in Iceland, which is a bit of the core of developing cooperation. This includes the School of Earth, which is of utmost importance when we deal with climate change, as is the Land - healing School. In effect, you can say that in that subject, the Marine School and even the Equal School are also relevant to some aspect. We're in, I'd rather not plat, focus on it, and we'll follow through like we've been done before. But we also need to discuss how we are going to reach the goals we set for ourselves. [[The president calls.]] That's the job when we've settled our budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u315	Madam President. Indeed, there are many good and exemplary financial plans for foreign affairs to form an ongoing increase in the impact of resource and environment on foreign and international projects affecting climate change and Iceland's commitment. However, I would like to state that it is worth considering that foreign contributions will be drawn together during the period under discussion. Here's a down payment for the EEA building fund during the season, which I would like to get an explanation for at the highest level. Minister, and then our prehumanity in the Arctic Council will run its course. Although these projects are not yet to be carried out and the recession has been a delight to see the continued growth in foreign affairs, and perhaps especially, as mentioned earlier this evening, in the global climate and climate programme, which will only increase and call for more financial resources, so that we can share in the global major project of climate change. And I'm also going to mention again and again how important I believe it is for our emphasis on human rights matters as one of our basics in national foreign policy to strengthen Iceland's presence at the Council of Europe in Strasbourg so that we have a regular committee. It's like the highest. A minister knows that we are the only 47 people in the Council of the European Parliament that does not have a fixed committee there, in contrast with what was before a crash and that was decided to restore 2016. It is certainly disappointing to fail to see a decision in the budget, even though it was certainly added to the foreign service since we discussed it a year ago by appointing an ambassador acting on the affairs of the Council of Europe and the Council of Europe. I continue to stress it at the highest. Ministers how important the Council of Europe and the Council of Europe are in the field of human rights and democracy. In May 2018, there was a period of permission by civil air transfers from the Department of Transport to the Ministry of State. It is stated on page 185 that it is unlikely that the Ministry will meet the project within the current budget. [[The president calls.]] This needs a little more explanation, and I'd like it at the highest level. Minister. How is it that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs needs more money for the permit squad because of military mobilization? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u316	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator who is going to try to answer these questions. First of all, why not? A senator asks about the fluctuations in the EES building fund. This is the old developing fund of EEA or EFTA that we had under the EEA Convention to pay for five years. We've been paying for it for 25 years, and the last deal ever made was in 2016. I don't know exactly why that happens, but there are swings and they're very big, e.g. during the period. As I understand it, it depends on the job position at any given time. But we already made a commitment to pay a certain amount, did 2016, and if I remember correctly, we'll have to negotiate again next year. With regard to the Arctic Council - and that's more, it's human rights, and that's all, and that's just the thought that we plan what this project costs and when it's done, we don't need the nature of it to follow it, and that's when it's taken care of. Hv. A member of the Council of Europe did well and how they are handled. Thereafter, people may feel that we should place extra money there and install a fixed committee, which requires money. We have set priorities for future foreign service, and we have given special attention to it. The increase we've had has almost exclusively been involved in this, on the one hand, there's increased stake care for the EEA, and I think it's totally obvious that it's fully needed, and then on a project like Baltrexit, which is obviously also important. In terms of military mobilization, there were certain funds in the Department of Transport to keep up with that issue because behind these are certain individuals, experts, who handle it. It has been a real challenge to get money at the State Department, but the project has gone there, so there are animals with advice, what to do, because holding on a sensitive party like the military transfers requires money. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u317	Madam President. Thank you very much. A minister for detailed answers, and he will not intend to delay for long, giving two minutes, and then one minute will not allow much room to discuss the foreign affairs. But I would like a second talk, not only during development but also our contribution to it. True, there is an increase in pace. That increase is well expressed in centenarians, but we are always aiming at the ratio, and it's my opinion that we should continue to do so and keep it up. The increase is in harmony with our plan for the increase in donations that we set for ourselves some years ago and is committed to achieving the UN target of developing cooperation. I, along with others, have grown weary of the time we are going to reach the goals we have committed to achieve. I'd like to hear the highest. A minister declares when he will see it happen, as well as the part of the development team that falls under the welcome of host and refugee refugees in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] And then I'd like to finally, Madam President, I know that the President has begun to call here, to encourage the highest degree. Secretary of state to action. [[The president calls.]] Although it is stated on page 184 that we are a small nation and have the smallest foreign service in Europe, we are still able to carry out a more advanced foreign service, such as the recent example of human rights and our work on Saudi Arabia... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u318	The president would like to remind members of the council to respect the deadline for this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u319	Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Just so we don't compromise on our goals or ambitions. But when the Senate decision has arrived, we see how much money we get and then we try to exploit it. Hv. A senator rightly pointed out that even if we have a tiny foreign service, it can do something that really matters. Hv. A senator named a recent example, a United Nations Human Rights Council, though there are many others. Then, only on developing cooperation in general. Let us not forget that in recent years, relatively few lawsuits, including health or pension workers, have increased as much as the development issues. We are talking about billions of increase each year. We're getting well over the OECD average, but it's better to be sure if it works. I think we are also meant to discuss how we can make the best use of the money, because there is little point in making the increase in evolutionary matters if it is not useful to those people and to the areas we focus on trying to help. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u320	President. There are a lot of things that always need to be discussed in foreign affairs and that are difficult to choose few things, but maybe just to point the top point. The Minister of Foreign Affairs says that our commitment to development is thought to be relative to gross domestic product, not in dollars. I'd like to enter the international business. In 2020 and 2024, while the two - side agreements actually double, I determined that there will be four for the year 2024. I assume they will become three contracts by the end of the month or about the same time, i.e. ritonavir. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Is this a message to us about some sort of elimination from the expansion of our foreign exchange through EFTA, e.g. we countries we are in negotiations like India and the Mercosur countries and countries that we should be dealing with, for example, in negotiations. in Africa and beyond? Is there something we should understand in this regard regarding the expansion of agreements, even e.g. Investment agreements? Many countries are growing, growing, and becoming more and larger parts of the business system, and of course we should have good opportunities to do business with them. Therefore, it is necessary to have a more precise view of what will happen over the next five years from this financial agenda in the development of business agreements. I must say that I think that these criteria are based on a modest, even ambitious goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u321	A respectable president. Hv. A senator doesn't have to teach me about the development issues, whether they're according to percentages or numbers. Behind these ratios are numbers. In Malawi, no one asks when we build a new fountain of water, a school, or a health - care institution. It's about whether we do these things and how they work. I think we've come to the point where we put a huge amount of money on the development team. In recent years, growth has been tremendous. We are here to discuss how they work, the goals, and the results we are achieving. That's what we're going to be judged by in the end. It's not the ratio, it's the result of developing cooperation. In terms of an apparent lack of ambition in international transactions, I don't know why. A senator is referring to him. In recent years, we have had considerable success. I call attention to the fact that we are, for example, someone. A double tax agreement with Japan and a contract for young people to work within. I think it took 25 years to get this two-fold tax deal. A senator did not point to, but he was very important. We here refer to investment agreements, and we give no reason to press for EFTA to make its own agreements. We just finished making deals with Indonesia, a 260 million society. We certainly follow when it comes to India, but then there are other members, as I mentioned here, Japan, and hopefully we'll get some results there. We have worked very hard in this regard. We're going to the United States for the first time, which may be the largest thing that's going on right now. What will be the result? Indeed, we are working hard and with high goals in this regard. In terms of the criteria in this program, there is something, especially in the foreign languages, that we need to develop. [[The president calls.]] I don't know what's the best way to set standards there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u322	Madam President. With the highest. The minister does not seem to know what I am referring to when I refer to the goals on page 18. 187. It is a goal to assume that there will be a very limited expansion of free trade contracts over the next five years. Of course, there is much to do. I know there's a lot of negotiations going on. The question may be more concerned with whether it is not to be stressed or even to develop some values such as, for example. the extent of international business, how much we are exporting, how valuable it is, rather than counting the free trades themselves into us, though it is certainly nice to do the same. Then there's no difference in negotiations. There are many contracts that are now being updated from trade to service. It would be nice to have some kind of view of this, which I can't find in this program, what sort of expansion is there to do. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u323	A respectable president. Of course, we are taking our first step in a new financial environment, one of which is setting goals and goals. It's been happening since the first day that there's something we need to develop. But already it is. A senator says that some ambition is missing, when it comes to international transactions, it is just a very long way from doing so. I also think everyone who's paying attention sees it. I mentioned some factors. Of course, Bbifit is the largest and most urgent case now, and how happy we are that we have reached the U.S. economy! When it comes to EFTA, we certainly are not giving up. Hv. A senator pointed out that we still have a first generation contract, sometimes a third generation, and that it is being won. I don't know if there's anything else to explain, as well as the double-folding agreements, investment agreements, and other things. Indeed, ambition is there. I think that everyone who sees it with some fairness will see that there is both ambition and power when it comes to international business agreements with the foreign agency. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u324	Madam President. Thank you very much. Secretary of State for his review of the State Department's topic fields in financial programmes for the years 2020 to 2024. What a joy it is to have ambition in Iceland's interest care in a changing world and to link financial objectives to the UN's global goal! There is work here to improve the interest security of the many Icelanders who live and study abroad, the interests of Icelandic companies who deal with foreign countries and national interests affecting international resource and environment. I agree with what it says that it is necessary to ensure the intensive implementation of the EEA contract through a protection of interest in the uptake and implementation of the rules and the increase in free trade agreements. Good protection against the European Union is very important and, in the long term, can prevent the increase in costs in this country, particularly in terms of bringing our Iceland's views into the early manufacturing process. We face various international challenges. I'm not hiding that I would be more pleased with the financial programme if the more than a billion of the budgets that are being dropped by the seminary during the season were to remain within the category, in the funding of general development aid reports that since the year 2020 Iceland no longer count the expenditures for candidates for protection and food relief through public development services, as has been done to this point. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister if I understand correctly that this budget team is still inside the budget of international development cooperation in the programme and would like to follow up a question. paritaprevir Björk Brynjólfsdóttir Björnfjörðurdóttir, whether it's not right to take this money out of the development team and to add to that for the protection and hostilities.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u325	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Just to explain it, it's very important to me that we settle things, so to speak, as other nations do. If we compare ourselves with other nations, we are usually comparing apples and oranges. What we've come up with is this. There are certain rules and guidelines that come from DMA, which is the section of OECD that targets the development issues, when it comes to involving the NGOs into development aid. Then we just try to do it according to the rules available. But as those texts show, it is being changed now that will have some effect on our appearance. That doesn't change the outcome. It doesn't mean we're saving where we're working, if we can say so, in this traditional development aid. It's about us making it up just like other nations. In addition, we can have opinions about whether to place more or less in a single group of issues. But I don't think it's gonna help us to start making this up any other way than the criteria that we have at FAC assume. I hope I explained it to you before. A senator how these matters are handled. Then I agree. A senator when he speaks of the importance of caring for our interests in the EEA. There I believe that if we're doing a job, not only when it comes to our presence in Brussels, which we're re-enacting, to have a representative of all the professionals in it, but also then we're going to need to focus on the theoretical aspect, to see how we can use the tools that the EEA Convention is using. We need to do so in cooperation with the Academy, and that is one of our intentions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u326	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Although I don't quite agree on the notes, what he's saying, because I feel that it should be done differently, that's why I'm asking if it exists. Not at all. According to this text, the Icelandic government guarantees the operation of the Icelandic air defense system and the monitoring system with marine areas and equipment and manpowers and other such factors as the introduction of the highest level. Minister. It says that there is a growing need for incentives on the ability of the Icelandic government to stick to its commitments in security and defence. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: How much money are we planning to deal with this accumulated problem? He introduced the need to be evaluated. But are we also making a plan to deal with the problem, in order to solve it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u327	Yes, I'd like to reiterate to the first act that we're just trying to do this, as the criteria that come from the international institutions assume. When they change the standards or rules, we follow them. That's what I'm talking about. The senator referred to the maintenance project, so if we don't do the maintenance work, it's going to be a loss for the projects that are there. It's expensive not caring for maintenance. That's why we, a respectable president, are drawing attention to this, for this is something we worry about, that it could lead to bad consequences if we are not involved. We have drawn the attention of those involved in these matters, along with us, that if we do not obtain financial support, we could face a severe task.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u328	A respectable president. The financial program has positive results when it comes to foreign affairs and should first include additional contributions for development. While all of us can agree that we can do even better, we are happy to see the steps we take. It is also very positive to see that there is still a high priority for the intensive implementation of the EEA Convention and our intensive interest management there. It's been very shocking to listen, we can say, skeptics in the materials that criticize the EEA when we work with them at the council, but at the same time do not actually support the powerful implementation of the actual agreement outside, where the right setting is just to protect our interests fully. Therefore, I rejoice that the minister continues his work of promoting the external interests and ensuring that we will protect our interests in all matters, as the other sovereign nations certainly do, as this agreement stands. What concerns me, and it seems, in fact, when we read about the foreign affairs in a financial program that the Ministry itself is a significant concern, that there are many challenges in foreign affairs for us as a small nation. Of course, we look at the Biffit, or Arctic, as we see an increasing global turmoil around us, which, of course, adds to the importance of our strictness in caring for our interests and international relationships. At the same time, the economic situation here is only getting worse, getting sick, and so on, causing expense in our foreign service, but making contributions to it reduces the duration of the financial programme. I wonder, " I have the highest. ' Don't Ministers worry that foreign services, as powerful as they are, do not choose these important tasks with these limited resources? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u329	Thank you. A senator for good tips. Hv. A senator named the EEA Convention. Clearly, we can have the most impact in the early stages, but we need to be in the area. Just to put it in some context, it's about 600 committees we have access to under the EEA Convention, taking in 13.4% of the types, but these are still 600 names. We need to set priorities for this, but we also need to work on, as has been done, our fellow EEA partners, both Norway and Liechtenstein, but it's not going to happen on its own, and it's going to have to be very organized. So much is certain if men aren't in the field, then there's not much going to happen. Hv. A senator also points to the challenges of many. These are not financial laws, and some things are going to be considered. The legal committee will consider what is behind it. Yet, there is a great deal of pressure. A senator refers to Baltrexit as well as to various other matters. If we are going to achieve the goals we would like to increase our export value by 1 billion a year, we need to work together very closely, in public and professional life, and work for a new market, which has become very large. I've referred to, for example, that... The population in China has grown larger than all of North America. Similarly, the United States is a habitable opportunity. We're working these numbers with a new Iceland lab, finding out exactly where we're selling, because we don't have enough information. But I think we can claim that, as it is on the western coast of the United States and in most states in the United States, we are not very prominent in our products and services. If we are going to achieve the objective of increasing the export value we have to do, the foreign service and the Iceland lab and the job life have to work together very closely. [[The president calls.]] That is one of the challenges that lie ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u330	Mr. President. I'll agree with the highest. Minister. Of course, when it comes to our interest in Europe, we must have confidence to use our sovereignty in that contract and not constantly complain at home that we have been taken away in some way. It's our job to use it. We also need time to support it by means of the resources needed to be present. Therefore, I reiterate that it is a pleasure to see that this structure continues to be emphasized. As for the challenges we face in foreign affairs, there are certainly some things about our need to expand our foreign affairs, which are further involved, I'm concerned about the development of events relating to Baltrexit. There's a preliminary agreement on freight transport, but I'm wondering if it's the highest. During this last minute, a minister can teach us a little about the service transitions that seem to have quite a little more uncertainty. Of course, Baltrexit is all together in substantial uncertainty. I don't think the British themselves know, even if there's only two days away, whether or when they're going and what they're going to do. [[The president calls.]] Of course, the service business is very important to us, as is financial services. What movie can be the highest. A minister gave us the benefit of evolution there? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u331	A respectable president. I'm just going straight to the Bfenit show. It's like whisk. A senator pointed to this, we don't know where that case ends. On the other hand, I think, based on the information we have - and we've won this not only in the Ministry but with the stakeholders - there is nothing that stands out on what is anticipated of Iceland and Britain. If there is a problem between Britain and the European Union, however, it may affect Icelandic interests. We can't do that. But only, for example. In this temporary agreement, if they go out without a contract, we have a better market access, for example. for marine products but in the current system, but the future will yet be established. Of course, we've been working with stakeholders to make sure that nothing falls between a ship and a dock and there's nothing in this work that suggests that some of the factors involved in the two - sided relationship of Iceland and Britain are not involved in these contracts. However, this does not change the uncertainty of the situation, and in particular could have an indirect effect on Iceland if there is a business barrier between Britain and the European Union. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u332	A respectable president. We're still talking about a financial program, and now it's the highest. Secretary of state. I'm wondering about the embassy we have here. We're a very small people. We're the size of Bristol in England, and it would be a little strange if Bristol had been carrying embassies all over the world and a bunch of couriers. You cannot see how that city should finance it. We're a nation, and I'm asking myself, because we're in a great deal of agreement with the North African Council and the Western Council, whether it's not possible to be with the Norwegian countries in foreign society. Do we have to have the HST itself at any cost or other cost? We just can't have a room or a drawer in the North countries and pay a lot less and make a good deal. Has it been checked? What I'd like to discuss, too, is the Schengen community and how it's worked out. I went to Denmark last summer, and suddenly the border guard was on the border border between Denmark and Germany, and I ask myself, " Isn't that a personal thing? ' I'm sure it's a good idea if I go abroad that I can prove a legal passport and I'm aware of when I'm checking in to shore and when I'm going out of it. Is that not likely whether we are in Schengen or not to have information about all who come and leave those countries?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u333	A respectable president. Most recently, it is necessary to say that it takes to be an independent nation. We compare ourselves with little nations, such as Malta, whom I remember to have 30 e - mail offices while we have 22. In time as a minister, two embassys, one in Vienna and the other in Mozambique, have been closed, setting priorities so that we can make the most of the limited resources we have. We're in cooperation with all North countries, e.g. Berlin. In Britain, we have the Danish embassy, which is Swedish, in Washington. However, it is not just that it is necessarily a product of direct savings. Rather, it is more likely that the collective and mutual costs may be useful to us. Our good friends as well as they are, the Norwegian states, they can't hold Iceland's interests except Iceland. In fact, while it's good to have good friends like the northern nations, we sometimes get involved, I don't talk about when it comes to fish. If so, we certainly need to care for our interests. Some might ask: Is it just some fishing contracts? No, no, it's not. It's the rights and other things. I could talk long ago about our disputes with our closest friends in terms of such factors. Nobody's gonna take care of Iceland's interests except Iceland. It's just that way. But we will always have a small service, and then it's about how we have the most priorities. Schgeren is in the custody of the Ministry of Justice and of the former Supreme Court. Minister of Justice, Sigríður Á. Andersen, had a good report on Schengen. I'm not going anywhere in that area. As I mentioned, I think we could do the most practical thing when it comes to emissaries, but we can talk about it a little bit more afterwards.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u334	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of State for the answers. Malta has more office offices than we do, and maybe he breaks them more, at least I don't know how they do it. It tells itself that we must always think that we are a small nation, that we cannot allow ourselves to do anything. Now the U.S. Army has begun to build a facility for aircraft at Cheflavík Airport. Is this our only cost, or how much is their cost? Will they come back and clean up at the airport at their own expense? Do we have to worry about having to go to the high cost of getting the airport fixed so that a military trip can increase there?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u335	Thank you. A senator for the record. I don't think it's right to lay it up so that a embassy is some kind of brooch. Being with the embassy does not mean that people sit and wait for something to happen, we have embassies that protect our interests. We talked about the earlier EEA deal and we have some opinions about him, what comes from Brussels. We can make a difference, but then we need to stay in the area and do our job. Nobody's gonna do that for us. It cannot be said that it is impossible for us to be taken into account in regulations or directives and so forth if we fail to make comments when we are invited to do so. But then we need people in our territory to do that work. Regarding the Americas, it has been reported to have increased since 2014. The U.S. Army has a lot of work done because they have new planes and so on, and they're reinvented. [[The president calls.]] We have paid very little of it, but of course we take part in our own defenses. [[The president calls.]] We're in the Atlantic Alliance with a two-way deal. But the big projects are already being accomplished. A senator refers to the most funded elsewhere. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u336	President. I thank the Minister for the discussion so far. I'd like to ask the highest. For more information, please contact the branch office of Jehovah's Witnesses or write to the publishers of this magazine. 190, speaking of a new stronghold. If he could remind us of what these monuments are. I'm sure we've heard, but I didn't see in the plan what's exactly it is. There is talk of a new stronghold. We know that certain things have been fixed in Keflavík, and what is this? Tonight, a minister talks a great deal about priorities and how people handle money, and I completely agree with a minister that it matters so much. Therefore, at least I would like to mention that it would have been closer to spending the hundreds of millions of dollars, if I recall correctly, 300 million or anything like that, that went on this campaign to UNESCO, using it to improve and be, for example, for example. with a regular presence in Strasbourg, taking care of business in Vienna. It would have been closer, rather than going to this temporary project that has been entrusted with large sums of money, and I don't know what to give us. Then I wanted to enter the development team. As soon as we're glad that the plan expects us to go closer to this goal that we've agreed on, 0.7%, it's clear that there is a certain uncertainty about how these contributions will be calculated in the future. The minister himself has had a definite view of how to calculate contributions to development cooperation, so he is tempted to ask if there have been any stage photos involved in the possible changes in the calculations. Then I'd like to ask a minister how much money he has planned for a year in the plan, from the past on developing cooperation in cooperation and regional cooperation, in a workforce of professional cooperation. According to today's data, there are about 100 million this year. What is estimated to be a high rate each year into this fund?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u337	A respectable president. In case of a moment. A senator was referring to a defender who is now entering, because, for example, this is the case. The new submarine engines and what is now being used are not good fit for the aircraft station. They need to be changed if they are to be caught. They're airloads, laundry stations, and stuff like that. There are new devices and equipment that were not present before and that are expected to be in older man - made operations. It is also maintenance, this as necessary. Of course, for UNESCO, we can have opinions about whether we should seek a seat in international institutions. I think there's a chance to argue that we can't get anything out of it. We've had a good partnership with UNESCO, they're quite prominent here in the country, and I don't think there's any doubt that if people on the other side believe that international cooperation is good, there are some things we can offer in that country as well as things we can use. Hv. Of course, a senator knows well that UNESCO is extremely active international and desirable to be there as we were once a long time ago. With regard to development, there was a problem. A senator asking about his employment partnership fund? I may be able to do better in a second answer, but I wasn't quite sure. In case of a moment. A senator might reiterate what he was exactly referring to them, I'll answer that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u338	A respectable president. As for the development team, I asked the highest. A minister of what he believed was that much money a year would be made up of the ongoing development teamwork in collaborating countries and regional cooperation, a workforce of professional cooperation. Of course, we don't use this money often, as we all know, somewhere they're taken, and we've got the source of the money taken into such a cooperation fund. As a result, we are asked: How much is it expected to go on to him? With the defense mechanism, I'm familiar with this aircraft wash center they're setting up. I asked, however, for a new defense, that's what the plan says. It may just be a print error, these changes are being referred to as older workers. But it's interesting if these are some new structures and what they are. Regarding UNESCO, I simply said that I didn't know what we'd get out of it. Something may come out of this. I reiterate what I said before that money can be used for other purposes, e.g. to strengthen our presence in both Strasbourg and Vienna. And in view of the discussion that was here about whether the money was using us in the foreign service, the funds that I know about are missing from my foreign service. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u339	A respectable president. When we do these exact things, it wouldn't be worse if we went over them at least. State Department, but I'm sure it's going over here right now. Regarding the collaboration fund, 400 million are expected in the next four years. It is not taken from anything, for the increase is natural far greater than that of money. Here it is simply being met by a more dignified president named. We're here to do exactly what the countries we're comparing ourselves to. It's particular to the North, but, of course, more countries. To be effective in these countries, employment needs to be built up, and the government will not go into it to a very small extent. This will be the only way that the job will be able to do that. It is called for the development of professional life on these issues, and it certainly is in the countries that we prefer to compare with. [[The president calls.]] Let us hope that this fund will produce the desired results, and Icelandic employment will be actively involved in developing projects. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u340	Mr. President. It can be welcomed by the emphasis that will be in the prehuman existence of Iceland in the Arctic Council on Sea issues and, in fact, it was a bit fun to see the interaction of marine chemicals and foreign affairs in the plan. In fact, it is so much that when I was reading the seabed, I thought I had been confused and was actually reading the foreign language section. That's the best part. In view of climate change, acidification, and global warming, it is clear that we need to put far more energy into research and to increase our understanding of marine ecosystems. In other words, our lives - or at least our livelihood - lie on the ground. Interestingly, though, at the same time that this emphasis is displayed on the foreign affairs, there is a decrease in donations to the seminary, the fishing road, and the increase in fish farming. It also shows that over the last 20 years, there has been a great effort to overcome the external boundaries of Iceland's land base in accordance with the regulations of the United Nations Sea Convention. So it is reasonable to think that the next stage, delimiting of the outer borders of the base, will be in the controversial Hatton Rockall area. However, this requires careful scientific work, as shown in the strategy to support Iceland's demand and work, with considerable costs. Therefore, the premise to set this stage, this important step, is to ensure sufficient funding for the Ministry and its institutions, something that is clear that this program is not being carried out. Mr. President. I'm asking if the highest. The minister of state is not concerned that this reduction in the water supply department and its institutions makes it difficult for him to carry out his mission.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u341	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. Hv. A senator here is talking about a very important matter and a perfect nail to his head. There's no secret that the ocean's affairs are in all our emphasis, since we can possibly handle them. There are very many countries that do not lead to the sea, very few countries that are as closely connected with the sea and the sea as they do in Iceland. We view it as a priority to be always discussing it, and I stress it. Hv. A senator comes to the interaction because foreign service is never alone, she is always working with others. When it comes to this important matter I thank you for. A senator for calling attention - and I agree perfectly with it. A senator on this matter - the institutions are relevant. I understand why. A senator thought it was at the Sea Department, which is at the Environment Ministry, when it comes to research on land base. I can see why. A senator is just as surprised as a lot of people who find out about this. Once we've been moving a project between recruitment agents, it used to belong there. This is one of the highest things I have. Environment Ministers have discussed, are stressing and offering suggestions on how to win these things. A senator just referred to him. I'm not going to repeat it as a matter of course. A senator said, it's just right. This, however, is about the Environment Ministry institutions. There, as in most other things, when it comes to our interests, we all have to work together. The Ministry of State will not perform any scientific research, so I'm sure, in this regard. Although the State Department's quarters are many, I can't remember us doing any scientific research. In order for us to succeed in our work, we need to do our homework. That's why I and the highest. Environment Minister has specifically settled it and asked our people to come up with plans for these factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u342	Mr. President. Yeah, I'm a little surprised. I thought, of course, it was a Merit Research Institute that did research on marine life and ecosystems, but clearly won't do it when it comes to land base if I get to the top of it. Minister right. If it is, it's good and good. I'm happy if you're putting money on it. I'd like to continue to commend the minister a little and to celebrate the guidance expressed in Iceland's foreign policy. We have a lot to do with those exact baselines and especially when it comes to peaceful solutions. However, I have some concerns, Mr. President, that the Ministry is not being created a framework for carrying out its assignments. When the plan was read, the sentence on the State Department's administration of license companies for the munitions of mobilization by civil aviation caught my attention. It states that the Ministry is unlikely to carry out a project within the current budget. So I ask the highest. Minister if he can truly accept that the council accepts this financial program as it is here in mind that his Ministry does not seem to be able to perform tasks that should be carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u343	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. Hv. A senator has read well at home, which is the natural basis for success, and I thank you for your material and good questions. We have a certain job, and it's not financial work. This is where we're putting the big lines, and I think this is a good thing. I think it's really good that we're making a plan in the long run. Does this mean that it will be exactly the law of the law? No, it won't. We bring to the attention of a council the things we are concerned about. That's it, I don't know what to say. The officials are in mysterious ways. We have just arrived at the point where we received a certain assignment, but we did not receive it. They may fail, so we draw attention to them. We are aware that here we are talking about the big lines and we are discussing things over a longer period of time that I think is very sensible. We received the assignment, not the money to care for it, and it's going hand in hand.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u344	Mr. President. I'm interested in talking to the highest. A minister for the standards and goals found on page 186 of a financial program. It shows that the measure of aim to better protect Iceland's baseline foreign policy will become the international reputation of Iceland's baseline foreign policy, democracy, respect for legal and international law, human kindness and human rights - and this only goes on. Then there is No. 12 on page 188, which, with the permission of a president, turns to: •Ends and services of basic information on Iceland's basic interest issues and e-mail offices to promote the knowledge of the public in Iceland and abroad, through national and international media, community services, by reporting and meeting at home and abroad. With that goal in mind, Iceland's reputation when it comes to human rights, and a plan to be more efficient in providing information on Iceland's interests and reputations and what foreign service is doing, I would like to ask the highest degree. Minister on the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the National Court and the speech I have experienced with the highest members of the United States. Secretary of state. Among other things, the highest. Former Justice Ministers that it will not without reproach that courts, both domestic and foreign, are used for political purposes or that Icelandic courts will hand over their power to interpret Icelandic law to foreign courts. The superintendent of the Supreme Court. Similarly, the minister of foreign affairs asked himself if we had handed out an interpretation authority over to Europe. I heard the highest. Also, a minister says that it is normal to have a mature discussion on that subject, and I can totally agree with it. But I wondered, " Will we hear similar words at a meeting of the Council of Ministers in Helsinki that the judgment has committed some kind of violation of Iceland's sovereignty? ' [[The president calls.]] Does it really speak of political use of the Court of Human Rights? I'm concerned that it will seriously damage Iceland's reputation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u345	A respectable president. I think it's obvious that Iceland's reputation when it comes to human rights is good, otherwise we wouldn't have agreed to take the place on human rights. The countries that were most populous to us are the countries that are the most successful in the world when it comes to human rights and they would never have supported us or encouraged us to settle in there if they think our reputation is not good or that we do not behave properly when it comes to human rights. Speaking of Iceland's reputation, it's turning around to create a measure, a measurable scale, when it comes to those factors. This is often very thoughtful. However, I think it's clear that e.g. The discussion of walking in the Council of Human Rights, which has been more widely in the local media, has helped Iceland's reputation. On the contrary, I don't think it's foolish. On the contrary, I'm careful to say that it is. When things come up like what they're supposed to be. A senator, like everyone else, gives the most important reason for a person's ability to use words, but critical thinking is the natural basis for a person's success. I'll just say it again as a matter of course. A senator pointed to: It will not damage Iceland's reputation that this court or any of the like things we will experience in the present and future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u346	Mr. President. I think it will damage Iceland's international reputation if the highest. Our minister of foreign countries notes that the European Court of Human Rights was used for political purposes when he judged, unfortunately, in an unprecedented case of court order, an example for all nations in Europe. We are warning examples of that judgment throughout Europe. I must hear from the highest. Minister of State to agree with me that Iceland's reputation cannot be beneficial in protecting rights that we are being shown in the way we should not enter courts. What I'm looking for is if he's going to use this speech. We are now hosting a council in Helsinki in May, and we will soon be taking the lead in the Council of Ministers. Denmark has previously been tried to attack the foundations of the European Court of Human Rights. I'm asking if we're going the same way, if Iceland's reputation is damaged that way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u347	A respectable president. I don't see any reason why not. A senator will begin to place words in his mouth and wonder if he will say the rest and that. Of course, we take this judgment seriously and are considering it, as we have noted many times. I gave the cup to appoint judges. It's not a simple matter. I think it should be discussed. I trust us to do so without being grueling or grand talk. It's difficult to have an arrangement that has overcrowded all criticism, and I think we should do it. Surely a senator would agree that this, like other, must be something that we can discuss and discuss with him whether we have the best arrangement now or if we have a problem or a problem with it. I think if we do, it won't hurt Iceland's reputation at all. [[The president calls.]] Regarding the judgment, we take it seriously and are considering it, as noted many times.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u348	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Foreign Minister for the past in the discussion. I also thank him for an expedite defense for a powerful foreign service. I wholeheartedly agree that we really need a powerful foreign service. I also have to agree with the highest power. Minister of the EEA Convention and the emphasis he puts on handling this contract well. We're so lucky, me and the highest. Secretary of State, to agree that the EEA Treaty is the most important international contract involved in Iceland. It needs both protection and use. That's where we're going. Minister of Foreign Affairs, with all due respect. This contract has had and has a tremendous impact in Iceland, on society all. That's why I want to reiterate that I'm really happy about this. However, I am concerned that to some extent it will be difficult for the high ambition that the minister has in the means adequate according to the budget set up in the seminary. It's a lot of work. So I would like to ask the minister if he thinks he has enough money to handle the important agreement he should have. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u349	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry, we agree on a number of things. In fact, although we argue here at the council, I think, is very good. You're absolutely right. A senator that we need to protect our interests when it comes to the EEA deal. It doesn't happen by itself. I'm glad we're going to do the plan that I set up, which, in fact, comes. ... in the report Good for the sake of the report, which means that we will increase the number of representatives from the five - year - olds in Brussels and try to influence them, especially in the early stages when it is best to do so. However, as shown in both the review and the text, if the plan continues, it will be a huge task to achieve the goals we make. But this is a plan, not the budget of every year. We draw attention to things that we feel we might be able to do better, and then it is time for the Senate to review in due time. We're in a hurry, and I know we are. Senators agree that no one is guarding our interests except ourselves, and we need to set priorities in this regard. The EEA Treaty is the nature of the situation in priority, but there are a number of other projects that we need to do as well. I think it's good that we're working out a plan on that topic, and I think it's good to look in the long run. But we know that this is not the budget of each year, but it is primarily to slide over the big lines and draw attention to the things we are concerned about in this program.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u350	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of State, to a statement he made during an interview with him and then to the highest degree. Prime Minister. In view of the fact that the British are on their way out of the European Union with Bfenit and that the EEA deal on a 25-year anniversary has been asking about how human thinking would be felt if the British were to pursue involvement in the EEA agreement. If I noticed correctly, the answers were the highest. The two ministers may not agree completely, so the question is, Has there been any discussion in the area of the government which policy or offer Iceland would like to give the British to their problems after breaking up their marriage to the European Union? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u351	A respectable president. Because of our divorce only south of us, we do not make any offer in this regard. However, there is a fact that since the first day, we have stressed it - and that is a solid solid solidarity within the government - that we are ready to help solve the situation, not add to the problems. It's my opinion that if the British went there, we'd look into EFTA or we'd look at the EEA partnership and that we wouldn't put a stone in their streets, we wouldn't have much to do with it. We have emphasized that we do not want to see any business barriers. It would be bad news if there were business barriers in the continent after the British went out. That's how we've gotten to it. [[The president calls.]] Britain is not going anywhere, and it is very important that there will be good communication, not only between Iceland and Britain, but also Britain and other European countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u352	A respectable president. I wanted to talk to the highest. Secretary of state. He mentioned earlier that it is very good to have embassies and to do business with foreign countries. Then I'd like to ask him about a business we had very good with the Russians for a very long time. As a kid, I remember I ran and leaped about in the last game at Moscovich boxes. Then, a man in hell was shaving a Russian bomb and went to Eimboats and moved goods to Russia on elevators. It was a very good business, and it made us very well in difficult times. As we know, the Russians invaded the Monsters, and since then we haven't had any business dealings with them. But our neighbors, such as the Faeroes, are in good business. I'm asking you, what's the policy? Is the policy of continuing to ignore Russia, and then why? If we're going to have the policy that we don't want to do business with people who are at war or who are doing it, I'm sure we can't do business with many nations. Or we might set it up that we are not going to do business with those who produce weapons and then sell them for war. We could, in many ways, rule out cooperation with a bunch of nations. That's why I'm asking why we still have a Russian embargo and if we're not right to sit down with them and deal with them again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u353	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. This is exactly what you hear in society, and I understand exactly where it came from. A senator is coming. He has heard something in the discussion but is not really the correct information, and I will gladly correct that misunderstanding. We don't have any Russian business bans. We participated in judicial action with other Western nations after the indentation of the Monsters, which aims at the authorities associated with rulers in Russia, not to the common people. Then, the Russians set up a business ban on the nations involved in that act of punishment. They take out certain products, products that hurt us most, on the other hand, in the fishing field and on the other hand, in agriculture. True, the Baltic States and Finland as well as Denmark and other countries suffer similarly. But we've never grounded a Russian business. Although these products can't be sold out because of the embargo they imposed on us, we have done whatever we can to facilitate business dealings between the states. They are, for example. To buy from us a ship. Also, the companies that produce a number of products towards the fishing industry have made negotiations, even major treaties, with Russia. However, these are mainly the two articles that they imposed on their business bans, agriculture, and fishing routes. It is also quite known that they took advantage of this opportunity to protect their productions at home and are trying to increase their food production in both agricultural and marine fields.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u354	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of State for the answer. We'll just cancel our sentences, cross them out. Isn't that the best thing to do? It's been going on for long, hasn't it? Wouldn't it be nice to negotiate with the Russians, talk to them as we do to most other nations? I think it's necessary for us. We'll see how the British get out of the EU. It appears that the EU has some of the thumbs on them, and it is difficult for the British to swallow what they are to receive in this outing contract. Then I saw the president of France the other day where he said that if they chose today to have the French eviction out of the European Union, he was sure they'd want to leave. So this is a kind of suicide, the EU countries, and it's nice to find more people to do business with, e.g. Russian.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-27-85.u355	Just so they say, business with Russia was the most fragile business involved. I don't think that business doesn't even reach 10%, maybe 7◯8%, of the biggest business in the country, which is America. So it's never been much. But if we are not going to participate in criminal action, what message do we give them? We give the message that when international law is broken, we will not participate in protesting it. If we are internationally wronged, what will we do? We all depend on international law. This, of course, is good for all but especially for small peoples. If we are not prepared to add small weights to the scales, how should we develop solidarity and support? I think that would be very shortsighted. About talking to the Russians, we're always talking to the Russians, and we'll keep on talking to them. Actually, I'm going to St. Petersburg in the next few days. One of my first visits was to speak with Pútín and Lavrov. I will continue to communicate in such a way with the Russians, trying to reach out for trade between Iceland and Russia, as well as in other countries. [[The president calls.]] But I think it would be very shortsighted, unwise, and quite contrary to what we stand for if we did not protest when international law is broken. [[The president calls.]]
