ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u1	President. I'm not going to be very boring, I just feel compelled to express my frustration over what social and child - care minister will be late entering a program for an unprepared inquiry class. I had no idea that it would be an option to have a conversation with the social and child - care minister until about 20 minutes ago. I would have been willing to have a word with him, but I wasn't prepared in any way, so I just wanted to make it known that it would be good to know in advance. There was no evidence on the General Web site, and I didn't know it until I got e - mail a few weeks ago that social and child - care ministers would be available. I just wanted to share this disappointment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u2	On the contrary, the president wants to commend the highest. Department of Social Affairs for responding favorably to and attending unprepared queries periods with short notice. This had happened that only two were left standing. Ministers when the meeting was being prepared yesterday and this morning. Social Affairs is the least deserved to be subjected to criticism, but the other one acknowledges President, that it is unfortunate that the art is not well preconceived and correct. Sometimes this happens anyway. So it was that during the unsubstantiated question period on Monday, there were very many ministers, but few registered today for reasons we can guess who, including The Arctic Circle Conference, so they're trying to do their best in these things.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u3	Mr. President. I'll let me say the same thing with both of them. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen and immediately president of the United States to give the highest compliments. Minister of Social Affairs for responding quickly. Nevertheless, I was at the clock. 9,50 or so to see which ministers would answer because there is one particular issue that seems to be up - to - date and I would have liked to review it with a minister. But I've already signed up for another minister who will be submitted afterwards so that as soon as I encourage the president to try to get a better grip on these matters, I'll say thank you to the Department of Social Affairs for responding quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u4	Mr. President. I'd like to agree with those who criticize that just before a meeting is scheduled, who will be sent out in unprepared inquiries. This is by no means an acceptable practice. We're trying to organize our work. The second band says we have to sort out an organization at the council, and the president has signed it, but then the government is so unorganized that it throws out a list of ministers' names in unsupervised requests for a few minutes' notice. I cannot agree that there is a special reason to give the highest commendation. counsellors for coming to an unprepared question period, but we must have time to prepare. We in the United States had prepared an inquiry to one of the two Ministers who had been informed that they would be here in the hall. We may have wanted to have a place to speak at the highest. Social Affairs, but the premium is just too small.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u5	A respectable president. The person standing here is, in part, beginning to regret having responded to the council's request for ten o'clock in coming to unprepared queries because of the past. Nevertheless, I was also here Monday during an unprepared question period then and would have enjoyed answering queries. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen on NAPA contracts and news that were this morning. I hope to get some inquiries, but I can please the senator, for I will try to be back in an unprepared question period right after the weekend. It is good to be able to respond quickly to the council and to be questioned. I hope there'll be more than we do at the highest. Secretary of the budget and the highest. Seafood and agricultural ministers getting queries. As I say, I'm kind of sorry I've reacted so quickly, but I'm going to do it from here to now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u6	A respectable president. It came very quickly to the top. Minister of Social Affairs came in. I think you've learned to be like the Boy Scouts, always prepared. I was prepared to ask questions to all three. I have a splash for Social Affairs and Children's Ministers because I think it's most important to get to him, so I'm glad he's here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u7	Mr. President. I will agree with what has been presented here, criticism of this lack of organization, and the consequences of the government's ability to fulfill its role. However, because the council is not filled with politics on the program, I would like to cast that question to the highest level. The president, whether it is possible to extend this prepared query period so that we might add the queries that were already arranged in the light of existing programs so that we could have the opportunity to ask the highest possible question. As long as the Minister of Social Affairs is here. I wondered, " Could this be a way to deal with the lack of organization? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u8	The president suggests that we stick to the rule that has become stable, that the indefinite period of inquiry is longer on Mondays for six to learn. This is prepared so that the government is adopted for who can attend and usually record a week in advance. As we know, however, changes may occur. Ministers may be shocked, and at such times, as did now, that only two ministers could come that had previously been reported, were considered to see if the third minister could not add. As we have seen, the highest grade failed. Minister of Social Affairs and Children's Office. So the president does not entirely agree that there is a specific lack of organization. On the contrary, he is trying to make it as predictable as possible. If not the bigger problems people have to complain about during the winter council, the president is pleased with that. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u9	To answer, financial and economic ministers, social and child - care ministers and marine rights and agricultural ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u10	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the highest. The minister of finance and the chairman of the Independence Party on the position of the party and the government on the invasion of Syria's Turks, where the Kurds are being specifically opposed. Some say, and already make declarations that they are being slaughtered, as one statement was in a magazine that I read this morning. Junker of the European Union has clearly condemned this. Germany, which is quite interesting, since Germany and Turks are in a very close, well - political relationship, under the leadership of Merkel, and they condemn this invasion. The same goes for the French. I'd like to ask the highest. The secretary of finance whether he agrees with these statements and, at the same time, agrees with the proclamation made very clear and conclusively from yesterday's council of greens, where he encourages the government to condemn these invasions and try to take steps that will contribute to peace. I'd like to know how the Minister sees how the government should handle this. Are you going to condemn this, or sit by? What will be the reaction of the government?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u11	President. There's a question about government policy and policy. This is a war zone, a vulnerable region, and an area where foreign countries have been present, in this case, the United States. It has long been criticized here in this hall when the United States has been involved in international affairs, but in this case, Americans are reducing the population of the area, and this has led to the result. We will continue to discuss this in the right place, in the Foreign Affairs Committee, and will discuss the matter in particular in the government. What I can say at this point is: Of course, you're deeply concerned about the situation in this area. Wherever human life is sacrificed, there is reason to express great concern. It is a war zone, has been war - torn for a long time, a total disaster. I don't know if it would be to help adapt the situation of taking sides in the dispute zone. At this point, though, I'm going to say that I'm very worried about the position that has come up, and it takes a lot to come so that you can justify that one state crosses another's borders and that it interferes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u12	Mr. President. I thank the secretary of finance for the answers, but I still have to say that I'm a little bit concerned about whether there's a harmony between the government parties in this matter. Last night, I felt that a decision made to the left green was very clear, in effect encouraged by the government to condemn the invasion of Turks in Syria. I would also like to point out that a prominent member of the Independence Party has specifically spoken about dealing with the United States and that they need to be revised. I must say, I miss a little bit of a lack of a clear stand from a financial minister in terms of this tragic matter. So I reiterate my question: Is there a solidarity among the ruling classes in this case? Will the minister of finance and the Independence Party use a clear voice in this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u13	A respectable president. In this case, as with others, if there is someone else in comparison, it will be the main point of the government to speak of what can lead to peace in a region where lives will be spared. What we see in this particular example is that there are very powerful forces that have been working on, and in the case of the United States, they have just entered the war zone and are reducing their approach, starting a series of events. On the part of Turks, it is claimed that it is necessary for them to take action to protect their borders. Yet, it is not possible to see it without response and without fault when thousands of human life is sacrificed. I think the best thing to do is to ask what Iceland wants to talk about in matters like this, that we try to avoid a group of political conflicts in Iceland, and send out a clear message of peace and action that can contribute to the peace and building of the communities that we now see are in ruins in the area.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u14	A respectable president. The first meeting of the Quantum Coalition was 4,◯5. October and this led to the conclusion of the choice of biofuels. It says, by permission of the president: One year, the gap between microenergy and minimum wage increases. It sucks that me and the Icelanders have decided that some of us are keeping our lives very poor. Although prime minister does not want to ask poor people to wait for righteousness, they are still waiting. The main meeting of the Microclerical League challenges the nation to make sure that the wait is now completed. Nobody knows who next has to rely on a ignominious biofuel. It also states that since 2008 the minimum wage and biofuels have been understood. Now it's gonna be $70,000. a month on minimum wage and pension. After the next pay raise, the difference is 86,000. per month. I ask a minister: How in the world can he and his government calculate that the desperate need much less alimony than low-payers? And why on earth do they need less than a job? Is there a problem with disability that makes them feel that they should have this much lower contribution? Is it because they have to eat less, need fewer medicine, or less expensive? What causes the system to be set up like an invalid who needs much less production than low-payers?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u15	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. He quoted the conclusions of the main discovery of the Micronition Act, and it is quite true that according to recent labour agreements on a general labour market, it is expected to include: increase minimum wage. In fact, it is not exactly what it will be because the new agreement was that part of the increase is tied to the progress of the economy. We need to keep in mind when discussing the benefits of social security, whether it is a microenergy pension or a payment for the elderly, that they are all equal to an index, and that they change. Although the senator shakes his head, each year we assume that his trunk will rise on that foundation. It's been called upon to be part of a collective agreement, but it's not that way because it's bound, so we're changing the powder and base of each year's budget while the overall salary in a labour market is not guaranteed. They are not linked to an index or automatically rising when the prices in the country rise. That's never the way it goes. The senator, on the other hand, asks what we are doing and why we are not doing anything against those who are in dire need. We added in the current year to funded, including to cut down a crown against a crown. The next year's budget bill assumes 1.1 billion dollars. to improve the position of this group. That's the frame we'll work from. We are also involved in a number of measures related to housing that will benefit this group as well as others and tax reforms, as well. When all of this is taken together, I believe that by improving the terms of this group, I hope the senator agrees with me that many of these measures are positive. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u16	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers give the answers, but I think the hang is on the percentages and climate change is much stronger and bigger than I'm in. It's just a crutch saying. You're a government officer. You can change this, you can follow your pay development. Why wasn't the job done? Why can't a cripple get his face corrected? Why did members of Congress receive 600,000 dollars in one night? increase over a certain period of time, but theorists of 60,000? Is that fair? How in the hell are you going to justify it - and I want to get the answer - that the poor and pensioners are supposed to live at 70,000,880. less per month than the lowest wage? Why? What is it about those who make it their way of life? I want the answer: Why in the world do people have to be discriminated against like this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u17	A respectable president. Many of the measures we are taking will be of particular use to this group, and we are already seeing the benefits of it. I'm pointing, for example. will be inhabited by 600 general apartments next year, which include: A micro-energy donor's partner can collect. We have emphasized the need to counteract changes aimed at changing the rehabilitation system because we together need to control the incidence of disability. It's a job that matters. As we consider the increases needed for that group, we need to examine them in the context of what the increase will be in the years and decades to come. Our problem is that we've had it all in one group, but we can't take certain groups outside. So it is so important that we overcome changes aimed at promoting the reorganization system and reducing the incidence of disability, so we can do more for the group that is there, and we really need more money. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u18	Mr. President. Economic services have quickly changed. The effect of the financial revolution on the financial sector could be profound to banking. Business competition will increase, financial services prices decrease, time and effort as a result of banking services decline. Traditional business banks that work on the basis we know today will need to rethink their services and business models in order to maintain their activities. As a result, most banks are under extensive measures to reduce expenses. The main ways in which this has been taken are the information of employees, the closing of branches, and the development of new technologies. It's coming even. magazines in a white book on the financial system. We haven't missed anyone in the bank. Arion Banki quit on the days of 100 employees, since spring, Iceland's bank has reported out about 40 employees. According to the financial organisation, 150 members have lost their jobs in September. Our mind is with all of them during difficult times. The director of the employment agency says that there is a huge contract at the head of the banks, but let's turn it over to the Bank of America, which is 98% owned by the State. The bank's bank manager says that the bank is in general economy and that the number of workers has fallen very much over the last few years. Despite a general economy operation, a great decrease in staff and a changed work environment, the Lands Bank is taking a major role at the Hafnar Square of nearly 17,000 squares [17,000 squares], building up new bases for billions of dollars on one of the most expensive property in the country. So I want to ask the highest. Secretary of finance, in view of what I mentioned: Is this implementation of the Lands Bank possible, and why have representatives of the State under the bank kept this up?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u19	A respectable president. Here is a question raised by a senator who over a year ago suggested that the state increase its share in financial management. The Senator felt that selling things at Arion Bank was a mistake on the part of the government because the price was wrong. Then the senator said that the state is giving things to Arion a bank. In the meantime, what has the market said about this claim? The market seems to have said something the opposite. If we look at the markets of Arion banks since the sale of the government, it has come out well. In view of the great changes the senator makes in the environment of finance, both systematicly important banks, and also other financial companies, you may ask whether it is more urgent that we explain the direction to draw the state out of such activities. Here are some examples of how the number of workers has developed into individual business banks, and it is true that all of them have reduced the number of employees and in a relatively short time, the number of branches in the country has been completely reduced. This has happened in steps, but we look at a completely different environment. It is then up to me if I believe it is a good thing for the Lands Bank to build new headquarters. I think it's a good thing for the bank to reduce the number of square feet dramatically. However, I find it difficult to evaluate whether my investment in itself is good, but of course you have wondered if it would be good for a bank in the bank of government to invest as much money as will be needed in that building. What I see in my case is that this will undoubtedly be a good property, and the bank will reduce the overall use of four square meters as presented to the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u20	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for outback. It has nothing to do with the fact that I talked about the government selling their share in Arion's bank at a store. I asked that this be here, and the World of Congress noticed if this was a prophetic project of some 17,000 square feet [17,000 square meters]. The number of square metres, like the highest level, is being reduced. Minister says, "I'm just out of my way." It is simply a matter of a recession in this sector. Meanwhile, the Lands Bank stands for a major project of billions that could have been used for, for example. Transportation projects. I asked a question in March this year to the highest level. Secretary of the budget of the proposed new headquarters of the Land Bank. This is a query for a written answer of 11 questions. That's where I even ask. the market value of the site, whether the building is reasonable, and whether it is an option for a minister to drop from the proposed building plans and sell the property. It's been seven months, when's the best. Minister to answer this inquiry?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u21	A respectable president. The senator must endure his own words torn up in a Senate Hall. The Senator has been very interested in business banking in the country. He stood in this hall and spoke of it as a good business for the state to increase his share in Arion's bank, that selling shares in the bank was reckless.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u22	On the watch.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u23	- At the ensign he calls, but the market has answered the price. It's been discovered that this was some kind of bullshit. Senator. He must endure a consideration of the fact that it has been very bad for some reason. A senator who spoke to the State for an even greater share in Arion's bank. [["Precise questions."]] It's been very bad for him. It was a good thing for the government to sell them property. [[For example, give them away.]] - To give, they call it. It is amazing to listen to this presentation when the state released billions of dollars on its property at Arion Bank. Regarding the proposed new national headquarters, the secretary of finance is not building them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u24	You're holding the stock.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u25	[[The president calls.]] The Congress objected when I proposed to the council that we take matters of the Land Bank and other financial institutions closer to the Ministry of finance. At that time, much emphasis was made on keeping it all together in a length of time from the Department of Fundament at Bank County. [[The president calls.]] The Land Bank will give answers and they will come here for the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u26	President. So oddly enough, the lead guy here before, basically stole the crime from me. But since the minister did not answer that inquiry, I'm just going to ask again. As was attributed here, there are significant changes in the lake of banking in Iceland. It's been 11 years since the collapse, the renovations have been restored, and financial services are changing. It's not just happening in Iceland. The HSBC bank is going to reduce the number of its employees by 10,000 people, so that something is named. I find it shocking that the New York Bank, the State Bank, the Bank of Nations - which I want to see as a community bank and not to be sold, we don't agree with a minister - is to pick up the cable with the grand design of the former owners who drove the bank underwater in a few years and intend to build new, elegant capitals on one of the most valuable buildings in the city. I think it's incomprehensible and kind of like another slap for a nation that just went through a disaster just 11 years ago because of bank overload and a fancy-flashing stunt that submerged a national colony. It is estimated that it will cost 9 billion, but we know exactly how it is with public projects, they usually exceed schedules, so it is quite likely that the cost will be much greater. President. I don't have a sense of humor that our bank, because it's the people that owns the Lands Bank, anyway, get into it. This is money that could be used to reduce the growth of our mortgages, our customers, or to pay the interest of our owners, the people, for example. May increase the number of nurses in the hospital emergency department. I'm asking the highest. Financial and economic secretary how he feels about this project and whether it is in favor of the implementation of public and institutions of this kind 11 years after the collapse of the bank and the times when most banks in the world are convening the sails - and I know all about the squares.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u27	A respectable president. First, I just want to keep it up during the discussion because it's called here from the hall that the secretary of finance is holding the stock that it's wrong. They set up a special agency to hold the stock. The stock isn't in the Ministry of Economics, it's Bank County. Second, I understand that people ask questions when equally expensive projects are planned in a company that is fully owned by the State, or about 98%. The answers given by the Lands Bank are focused on the fact that the bank is already on one of the most expensive property in Iceland, either across the chamber or in front of the Assembly Hall. There are significant reductions in the number of square feet and much more than that, housing will be more useful to the bank, and then, of course, it will have to be taken into account that, against expenses, property will develop. It generates an asset in terms of expenses. These are things that must be taken into account, and there will be a great deal of possessions at the same time. Otherwise, I'm not here to defend a decision I didn't make. I have not made a decision to build any new headquarters of the Lands Bank. It's just not like that. To that end, I am moved. Congress members interested in the case calling for information into the panel.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u28	President. I'm aware of the rule of the right distance and very much in favour of it. I came by myself to set up this blessed bank county and agree that the Ministers are not supposed to be in the daily business of government companies, but the state has established a policy for the bankers to set up a framework for the Bank Office and bank managers to operate within. Of course, the bank's owner's policy should be clear that such crazy and costly projects are not being carried out. In fact, it says so.Unable to connect to POP server %s. The value of financial management should be based on policy and cost-effective management, which yields long-term benefits to clients and society. National Bank headquarters can be anywhere, and building an office building is much less expensive somewhere in the fray, so at Redfaring Harbor. Will the minister's opinion of sharpening the government's policy for financial companies and signaling that such a building adventure in the majority of the state's property is not so carried out by the owner, the people say?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u29	A respectable president. It is not just an option but the role of the Bank Office to ensure that the funds entrusted to the National Bank are handled properly, that the National Bank follows the policy of ownership established by the company. Of course, it would be an option to provide financial companies with the necessary maintenance, but in this particular case, I have not at any point come to one decision. The task here is to call upon my being saved to another institution where there are such clear rules that it is specifically discussed in the law what the Minister can do by the Agency. A consideration of these rules may be given to people who claim to be involved in political exchanges by financial schemes. I have not been a spokesman for their business banks or their individual business decisions or investment decisions taken on political grounds and I will not be its spokesman.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u30	A respectable president. Yesterday, through the council, the law without review was threatened to put us on a list of uncooperative countries because of the lack of action to resist the money theft and the funding of terrorism. However, since the release of the Panama Documents at a time when governments were available to purchase data showing the massive tax fraud of Icelanders through shell companies in the other countries and those countries has not been a lot of work. On top of multiple tax treatments taking too long, there's not much work to do, at least not visible. In 2016, about 250 cases had been opened because of the data purchased in 2015, part of the data contained in the Panama Documents. We all remember how difficult it was to buy that evidence, and that's where I refer to the financial minister's criticism from February 2015. The data were finally purchased, and according to a news report, 96 cases were completed. Of these 64 have been referred to in criminal treatments, a parking ticket in 17 cases, two cases of punishment, and 13 cases not being punished. Seven other cases will be over soon. This is a 103 case all over, and according to the tax investigator's response to the reactor's inquiry, there are only 18.6 billion taxes. 66 cases with the exception of a total tax set of 9.7 billion were dropped, 41% of total value of 23.3 billion. The causes of the collapse are attributed to treatment discontinuation, with a large case of 2.2 billion due to exodus from a foreign society and another of 876 billion. K. ... tobuyingof shares at lower prices than the sound guard. As we shall recall, it was very well discussed in the Icelandic media, where half of the stocks in Wintris were sold at just one dollar. What I want to know is, can we get to see the data the tax investigator bought, e.g. a sample received by the government before it was decided to buy the data. The data has been published publicly in the Panamas anyway. I come to the next part of the second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u31	A respectable president. With all due respect, I don't get the point. Senator. It begins with a law adopted at the General Assembly yesterday and relates to the international cooperation of the United States government in FAFF conservation, where we were building laws and regulations because of the potential for money fraud and the funding of terrorism. This is a matter of the custody of the Ministry of Justice, and the cooperation within the FAFF is primarily carried out in that field. It was then said that the case had been moved through, and then it went straight to the Panamas. I just have to admit, I don't get all these billions and all the other stuff. A senator recites incoherently and in a totally incomprehensible way. If you ask if you can access some specific information, I encourage the senator to request it in writing. The same guidelines as the general rule regarding information given by governments to the council or the public should apply to the media in the event of a switch. Hv. A senator said that the person standing here has made it difficult to buy the data, which is why I encouraged the purchase of the data. I guaranteed the government funding for the benefits, and it was quite an occasion in Iceland's tax research that the decision should have been made while I was in the office of finance minister. I also signed data exchange agreements to a greater extent than I've ever signed in international cooperation with international taxes in Iceland. So I dismiss them as nightly. A senator is serving at a council hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u32	A respectable president. More on context. The scope of large tax trials in recent years is not limited to data derived from the Panama Documents. It is also possible to point to the Seldom Bank's investment route, where money has been traced to the tax industry and then back through the Sullen Bank's discount page. Finally, in the 2020 bill for funding, funding is put in order to promote tax fraud research, finally when some funding is needed to compensate for the subtraction of the economy. In a talk from February 1, 2016, the secretary of finance spoke of the need to expand the cooperation of institutions, but today we see that the main reason that a tax investigator had to cancel 66 cases was that their case, on the other hand, with the government and the district attorneys, was not sufficiently intertwined in matter and time, as indicated in the Core's report on the matter. We were late to introduce the rules about CCs. We're creating a law on money laundering at the last minute with an irresistibly legal treatment, and we're infringinging on billions of tax research because of the problems we're aware of. How does the secretary of finance feel about the loss of billions on his watch, leading to an increase in the burden of all others?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u33	A respectable president. I have to say, I think it's the same incoherent language. Of course, when it comes to a case that had to be canceled because of a violation of the study, it is being referred to as having recently been judged by the European Court of Human Rights, requiring that there be no double punishment, or double punishment, and that certain agreements need to be treated. What can determine whether the burden of guilt precedes the sentence in the court is the degree of agreement. There, this arm of the court and the tax research authority has been considering measures to correct matters. Of course, it is not good that these have been like this, not only for the funds of the state, but also for those who may have been under investigation for a decade or who had to be punished twice as much as that for the European Court of Human Rights and the covenant that we have signed there. [[The president calls.]] Why not look at things from the city's rights, like Piramas is a little tamed here in a speech chair and admit that this aspect also needs to be included? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u34	A respectable president. I recommend a synonym of a policy-making strategy on the affairs of rural society for 2019-22033 and a plan of action for the next five years, i.e. 2019/2023. In general, policy measures are essential to progress. When democracies are faced with challenges, they shape their policies and plans. The forces must be united, and it is urgent that all concerned persons come to solutions so that they can be used in a variety of ways and that they will form the common outlook for the future that is so important. The Ministry of Transport and Regional Affairs has begun to coordinate and integrate all their problems. The first steps in this direction were taken in June 2018, with a validation of legislation on the alteration of various laws to conform to transport, communications, rural and regional policies, No. 53/2018. They shape new policy ideas, new visions, and new practices. Since local activities are part of the new vision, it is a joy to see that today, for the first time, it has been suggested that ambitious policy measures in rural affairs should be taken to the next 15 years. I also allow me to say that this is one of the most interesting proposals for improvement in public administration for a long time, as the plan consists of a complete approach to the development of the government level in the future. Everything depends on that relationship, so I'll come back to you later. The primary objective of a decision-making strategy is to draw together key elements of the long-term national policy barriers in the development of rural organisations and to promote harmonisation in Kingdom and rural policies in these areas, with the overall interest of the regional government level being guided. A guide will also be provided to guide policy in the affairs of the rural government level through its growth and sustainable aims. The plan shall also be based on the objective of rural government legislation and government policy on sustainable development. It shall take into account the existing policy-making programmes of public authorities regarding the state and development of rural government. Special attention should be given to the policies presented in a legalised rural and national programme. Then it should include Refer to transport plans, communication plans, and national planning policies. During the development of the programme, the automanagement of your community should be maintained. Mr. President. Some of the factors have been involved. Several of my predecessors have appointed committees to work on local policies and have provided suggestions for action. However, the report of a work group on the status and future of the unit management phase, published two years ago, may have been first called high and clear after the development of a total policy for the level of government, i.e. ... onthe part of the state. There were also practical suggestions for achieving goals for strengthening and strengthening it. The same year also published a report on the Regulations of rural society, which also pointed to opportunities for improvement, and ways to make better use of the financial resources and the local community. These reports were prepared for a wide range of consultations across the country, as well as discussions at national conventions and the financial organisations of the European Union. As a result, the Generals last summer of the above - mentioned legal adjustment and after hearing the views presented at the National Assembly of the State of Akureyri, U.S.A. In the fall of the year, we got together at the Ministry to set up a general policy for the government. In line with the laws given earlier, I appointed a four - man group to do the work on my behalf, and it can be said that they took their assignment firmly. A green book, a symposium, beginning May, and the public were given the opportunity to comment on various points regarding the level of government. A total of 26 comments were received that were based on the shape of the policy. The group visited all parts of the country, and to them representatives from most of the country's population were allowed to meet. The summer was used well, and on August 13 of this year, the Board of Management Guide was published that the synopsis that we are discussing today. Propulsion to issue reviews was given to September 10th and received 25 reviews from the Ministry. In the meantime, the European Union held an extra national body for the proposal, which was the only case in the United States, and the proposal was adopted with the overwhelming support of the Council of Congress. The agreement is as follows, by permission of the President: The European Parliament of the European Union held September 6, 2019 2019 agreeing to recommend that the General agree to the Council's resolution of a policy strategy on the affairs of rural society for the period 2019-2033 and the implementation programme for the 2019223. The proposal is for the generous financial support of rural society to its cohesion, and it is therefore important that a government fund provide special funds for the fund to finance that support. So many of them were words, and this is a very good opportunity for all of us as we discuss the matter in the Council of the United States in the coming weeks and months. We must listen carefully to the will of the majority of local government officials. Some, however, experience that they do not take into account the viewpoints presented. This does not mean, however, that you are not listening. Yet, in these matters that differ from those of others, the choice and rejection must be made, the discussion has led to different viewpoints. It may be said that consultations have continued for a long time, and many people have come to their viewpoints. I thank all those who have participated and made an effort to attend meetings and write opinions because everything is important. Most important, I thank the strategy committee and all of them have been involved in it. The aims of the policy are clear. They are that Iceland's rural areas will be a powerful and sustainable site of democratic activity and that the self-management and responsibility of the rural community will be respected and that the rights and access of citizens to services will be guaranteed. The policy plan follows a five-year plan and includes 11 measures to achieve target targets. The strategy and implementation schedule should then be reviewed after three years, and there will be an opportunity to improve the measures and ways to achieve even better targets. Probably the first action of 11 of the most radical and, as a result, was at least the most controversial, which includes reinvigoratement of rural law on minimum population. That law was in law from 1961 to 2011. A minimum population of 250 inhabitants from general government elections in 2022 and 1,000 from general government elections in 2026, after six years. The main suggestions are comparable to the project management and the future of the Icelandic rural society two years ago, also in the past over a wide national discussion. The effect would be high, since more than half of our community today has fewer than 1,000 inhabitants. If this is how it's going, the population here in this country could be reduced by half of the time. To me, the benefits of this operation are great. Farmers will be better equipped to carry out their duties and serve the residents as best they can with regard to their ministry. They will be better equipped to carry out their assignments without having to rely on considerable support from the Slurpee Fund of rural society or through the jungle of settlements and treaties. Their self - control is increasing, their democratic agency is strengthened, and government will be even more able to meet increased standards of quality and efficiency. These proposals will also have a substantial effect. Many points have been made, including. ... ofthecounseloftheapparents. In a new analysis of two experts, it is estimated that the financial benefits of this operation could be taken at a rate of 3.5-6.5 billion. every year. The amount of money could be used to improve services, including to young people, or to pay off debts and thus reduce expenses. Then the proposal creates a further basis for moving more jobs from state to rural society, which increases the self-respecting and democratic approach to the rural level of local affairs. Furthermore, I believe this proposal will provide better conditions for individual areas and rural areas to advance from local to economic level, in dealing with the State's administration of priorities, e.g. ... onthefield ofthepassage. There are more to mention, but to me there are obvious parishes in this for the inhabitants of the country. Then there are some factors that need to be taken care of in this process. Some have, e.g. Worried that smaller settlements may break down in larger rural areas, all power moves to larger places in a united rural society. It is not good if such a situation exists, and it is a responsibility and the duty of each unit in its territory to make sure that it does not, i.e. that authority be scattered, that the inhabitants may be taken in hand, and that the goods of the community are divided in a fair way. Based on its review, the Agency has suggested that it may lead to greater agreement on minimum number of population if the role of rural society is to protect the less affected population based and to a decision on minimum population populations. Based on the Agency's opinion, it is reasonable to require community opposition itself and to account for its policy on the implementation of environmental trends within the country's limits. I find this encouraging and practical suggestions to be considered. Then there is the development of a very interesting model in connection with a proposal for a united four rural communities in the East. They think of experiment projects for a few years, but they try to ensure that less communities continue to have a particular home government. The electronic management and practicality of a new technology to communicate information and ensure consultation and communication are involved. This could be a role model for other rural communities, and I urge it to be considered, which is a state-of-the-art government law for Ministers to provide reserves from various legal requirements in order to experiment in the rural state. The possibility should be considered by others. It has been asked, "Why 1,000? " Why not something else? I might as well ask, why not? A simple answer may be that we have not tried this before, that 50 inhabitants of the past population would have little success today, did not at the time, and were of little value. 1,000 is the most widely proposed figure in recent years, and it may be said to be an excellent compromise because many people want to go much further. It can also be said to be moderate, for, still, the local communities would be many, and many of them still few, in international comparison, can be found so few rural communities who at the same time have a great responsibility toward their inhabitants. It would probably be easy to allow local communities to remain as few as possible if their duties were insignificant, as it were. In France and in many European countries, where there is a strong intermediate level, the third administrative level, which has taken on the local projects. We have chosen only another route, the Norwegian way, which includes sharing power and promoting the self - control of our rural society by bringing as much of the work that affects the daily lives of the people to themselves. That's why society's self-sustaining and self-sustaining are important. The projection remains, however, with a wide range of choices between rural partners that would probably be around or at best over 30 people in this country. They can continue to compete for services and goods. I think it's nice to start with this goal and then see how it will develop in time. Moreover, no one closes that during this six - year period a man can do what he wants to do. Some have objected to the proposal that it is incorrigibly an intervention in rural affairs, etc. Admittedly, a new framework is being set for the order of the rural government level that may be opposed to those in individual areas. But Fernt must be kept in mind here. First, the suggestion means that inhabitants have the means to achieve their goal. It is up to them to decide who to join and vote for it in the democratic election in the coming years. Second, there is a good time to prepare and a good diagnosis of options can be made. Third, this is very powerful support from an equation fund, which means that the inhabitants do not have to make use of their own tax dollars to cover the costs of change. Rather, they have handsome support for reorganization and services to the inhabitants. Finally, it must be kept in mind that this is the democratically elected General who has the right to decide on these matters. A Icelandic court order has generally begun that the legislatured lawgiver can make decisions on local boundaries without special consultation or voting for the inhabitants of the local community. In general, it can be so that the decisions made by Generalis in various ways may be contrary to man's will. However, we must respect the will of the Generalis, who must look to the overall interests of society and the necessary development. I'm thinking, for example. that the affairs of disabled persons would not have gone to the local communities in their time if the opposition of individual government officials had taken over at the General Assembly. Another important action in the synonym is a proposal for a large increase in the support of the equation to cohesion. Preservation of new rules has been implemented in the Ministry and introduced this week, and there are reports. According to the proposal, there may be in the range of 101⁄215 billion in this effort to reach the rural community. Newer in this production is that each member of the community can see how much support it is no matter which group they intend to join. Of course, this support is greatly appreciated by some as well as by much community support, for I suppose it is useful to a greater extent outside the capital area. Of course, most of it comes to the poor. I've already adopted the concept that government funds are also coming to some extent to finance this important effort to further the level of government. The results from that study later appeared in the year. I was going to review some of the measures involved in the five-year strategy, but I don't have time for it. Of course, they are clearly identified in the Parliamentary arrangement, and we may be able to include them in our discussion today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u35	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers are eager to review very interesting matters, and I look forward to further implementation of the case at the council. Indeed, there is plenty to take. I just want to think about one thing that came to mind when reading the first round. That is indicated in the case of the highest. Minister to plan to become part of an integrated global policy of transport, communication and rural development, and I wondered where the environment would enter that. I would especially like to hear from the highest level. Minister where and how to work at the proposed establishment of the Middleland National Park. The work is going on, and the one listed here is on the committee that is considering it. To protect our natural ecosystems, memory, landscapes, and so forth, we are talking about creating a national park. It is important to work closely with your community, especially with respect to employment policy in these areas, etc. Is that in some process? I just haven't had time to do enough research, but I don't see it in the first place. Is it somehow integrated in there? I'd be very interested to hear it from the highest level. Ministers as well as environmental bodies, where they can be found in this important policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u36	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. In terms of integrated estimates, all programmes under transport and rural management programmes are part of the policy areas there. A communication program discusses the environment. It is also taken into account by national planning policies that deal considerably with environmental issues. If I recall correctly, in current national planning policies, it is not in itself being addressed directly through a centralland national park, which is a future decision, which will soon enter the next national planning policy. It's not directly connected, and it's certainly not related to this community plan. But I agree with what. A senator, not only is it important but it is absolutely necessary that the rural communities have direct access to this committee, and that is why two members of the rural organisations on the central nation park, in fact representatives who have both once sat in regional councils throughout the central area, are filled with knowledge that concerns them. I also know that rural society, for example in the South, has the highest interests in the country - where most of the fortresses in the country are, and the largest number of tourists and the pearls there are - have started working on the central area. It has to do with the central national park work. Based on last week's ultimatum, they had a little strong voice that they would have to finish that job and put it into the central highland park and work on it. It's not directly related to this 11 operation here. It is more about how we can promote the unititarian self - control level and ensure that, wherever they live in the country, the people will receive as much as they can do on the same side of the government. It's a little bit of our job in dealing with our rural society to ensure that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u37	Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. It is quite clear that this central nation's affairs regarding local interests are very much involved. The interests are also different, depending on where these proposed societies are, so it is important to make sure that all of them have access to the case, but not necessarily through one or two cans, although good on the committee. That's why I asked about the connection with this subject. I'd like to take a second round to think only about this with a transition of state and team members on the experiment project mentioned here in particular. As important as it is that we have this amendment clear to the population, especially in education and health matters, they are more often, but not limping, especially because often the arrangements for financing are not clear and often not clear enough. not designed to accomplish the tasks simply in the best way possible. I wondered if a minister has anything clearer to say this than that there is a decision to experiment on changing operations. [[The president calls.]] Does a minister have anything special in mind? I especially ask: Will financial resources be assured to give real aims to show the best interests of the population? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u38	The president asks why. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u39	A respectable president. Of course, this body of Congress proposal is presented as a fairly general policy of a state in the affairs of the rural society. With many of the measures there are, the ball is thrown to the rural communities, and we are in operation two to bring with the highly altered and highly supported equations a great deal to meet what the communities have called after so they know where they can go. Within that framework, however, they have the right to search for various means, and I have pointed out that there is a government law available for Ministers to provide such extras. The experiment in the West on unity, where they're developing home government, is very interesting. I encourage other societies to examine it at the same time. It can well be for others just a different approach or a new idea, and we're open to it. That's exactly what they say. For further projects, we need to take it a little later, so the president doesn't start hitting the bell.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u40	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. The big issue in this is, as we may have noticed, the legal evasion process to unite the communities. I have doubts about the methodology, and I believe it is important that we consider wanting the inhabitants of each rural society, their geographic status, and their future expectations, as it were, instead of walking in a process of forcedness. That way can be treacherous. There's an example here. Such a strategy is not based on a known democracies sense of the common people, as it were. It's controversial. This was the only subject that was scheduled at the additional convention of the European Union, which made it clear that the matter is controversial. For this reason, there have been some rural communities who have been informed about the organization, and there is, of course, concern that the common community, which we all know plays an important role, is a bit divided out of this matter. It's an emergency to go this way, but already there are certain motivations for the rural population to unite with those who have done good things, such as. ... withClainandSand Sandmaker. Not many people expected them to unite, but they became a reality. So I ask the highest. Minister: Are the experienced incentives available? [[The president calls.]] What is the reason why this is the way? It's not working?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u41	A respectable president. I don't agree with what. A senator on what is the main issue of this policy. The main policy issue is the target, i.e. that Iceland's rural areas will be a very effective and sustainable site of democratic activity. What does that mean? This means that inhabitants of each rural society choose the government and the services given to the inhabitants. It's not about the people of one community as a member of another community and getting the services elected representatives of that rural society being elected to provide. It just doesn't have anything to do with the locals who make the deal. Maybe that's the big part of it. The other is to ensure that the self-management and responsibilities of the community are respected and that the rights and access of the population in service are guaranteed. That, of course, is our concern. We cannot always do that. Then we rely on our rural society to do so. If they are very different, some of them are very unattractive to do so, we find it difficult to ensure the equal availability of the population in any kind of service we would like. This is the big deal. Of course, it is not the right thing to do. A senator told him that some other rural society told him about the relationship. There's one thing, Tjorn. There, 55 people live. They make a deal with their neighboring group, the North Council, throughout the community service so that, of course, they do not meet their first goal. You're right, it's catalysed today and it's worked. For a very long time, however, local authorities' wishes have been that they would come a little more equal to the State and say: We can do this - in the field of children and young people, such as. is being set. Then the question arises: Will the rural communities be equipped, or will we continue to make the national partings play the role and then go to the Third Commission? [[The president calls.]] There has been no desire, either at the Council or among the local government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u42	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I remind you there have been studies of a uniting society where it has been shown to be equally successful. In some rural areas, smaller ones, our service has even deteriorated together, it has been decided to drop out of school and drive children around a longer distance, etc. So this is something that, of course, is appropriate in this discussion. I wanted to come in on something else in that relationship. I believe that in this proposal, there is a full need to discuss and find solutions to certain democracies within the common area of rural society. The so-called Four Party, Independence Party, Expensitive Party, Left Green and Group, have at these common fields, on committees, at equations, loans, etc. A 60% representative at the same time as he has about 30% of national government officials. [[The president calls.]] Is it not reasonable to try to work at that democracy? So it would come into policy, as we have discussed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u43	A respectable president. About the first thing, I agree with what. A senator, experience has shown, both in research and in such cases as the ability to judge, that unity differs. Therefore, I was reviewing these guidelines from the Based on the possibility that it would be wise for the next spring to produce a bill on the basis of this council proposal to write clearly what needs to be defined by perimeters or settlements that go limping within the country society and that the community itself should have that opinion, i.e. that rural communities cannot, in the strength of the area where the large mass of mass lives, do not make a difference because it is the local population of those rural communities. And it can be written into the law. For the second thing, I think maybe it's out of our hands to interfere with the way the European Union approves. That's it. Maybe it shouldn't be mixed up in our policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u44	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the historical development of this big and extensive proposal, which may become historical. I want to kill only on one point and communicate with a minister. This is a major objective, as stated in section 1 of the Action Programme 2019◯2023, to improve the sustainable development of rural communities and to ensure their ability to perform legal tasks. I assume that humans are supporting the UN's primary objective of sustainableity, i.e. The social, economic, and environmental. I'd like to hear some speculation about that. Of course, larger units are strengthened by these rural communities to provide powerful social services. We all know those expectations, consciousness, and environmental requirements. Then there is this economic point on sustainability and the survival of the equation fund. When do communities or communities feel self-sustained? Is the goal of them to be independent of or less dependent on an equation fund? Where are the limits to the highest? A minister is acceptable in this context? This is one of the main points of the proposal and is shown both in step 1 and then in the report.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u45	A respectable president. You're right next door. A senator to sustain himself is based on these three factors, of course, some of which are thoughtful and may find it difficult to put a line or line into the sand in this regard. That's why the equation is available, and that's why it's changing all the time. Today, 133/414% of rural income is derived from an equation, but in some areas, it is far more than 50% of the income and even higher. The goal is not to lay down an equation fund. The objective is that he may become simpler and clearer, thus achieving more fully his goals. If we compare ourselves with Norway, the percentage of income partners that come from the Norwegian equation is much higher, and more projects have been moved to the rural states in the North countries than here, including Because we've had so much of very small rural areas that we can't take on in a sustainable way. It has provided that way for cleaning. There may be a special debate about whether 350,000 people in the community should distribute responsibility for this rural work or keep it in the state, but we have chosen this Norwegian route. That's why we've gradually been developing this. And this discussion about 1,000 people can be discussed. Does it guarantee economic, social and environmental sustainability? There have been some numbers that have been cut down, as I said, and that may be a compromise of some sort, but there is still an assessment of the activities that the rural communities are facing today, i.e. The legal task of rural society is that if the population was far below it, they are in a poor position to do so. Nevertheless, the balance fund will always have to come to balance conditions in order to ensure the other goal, that the inhabitants receive as much as they can best, no matter where they live. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u46	President. Thank you very much. Minister will give you answers. During the district week, I talked to a number of local authorities, and there are differences in viewpoints. You could hear the view that 1,000 human society is an example of successful sustainable communities with successful business, but of course, with considerable involvement in an equation fund. I would like to ask, in the context of the decision to do this in two phases, in the years 2022 and 2026, and I would like to hear a little more clearly about these short steps: Would it not be more sincere to do this in just one step? You also heard from local authorities that this was burdensome for the population, that perhaps during that four - year period it may be necessary to change its gear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u47	Mr. President. This may be because men are trying to approach the matter in as much harmony as possible, listen to the views that have been in this long process, and I refer to the report in which 250, 500 were submitted, and if I just remember 1,000 or 1,500 in three terms. These figures, however, are not to be interpreted as something to be looked upon by fellow societies. It's just a minimum. If in some area, two, three, or four, we want to create a much bigger community because they think it's the best way to the future, they can. However, I have not met anyone who says that rural areas under 250 can be self-sustaining and live up to all legal tasks. And why do you want to stretch this out for six years? Yes, that's to give your communities the chance. They have the ball with them. In Denmark this was done on a one - year notice, if I recall correctly, in fact, by geographic change that we can also look to in our discussion, if in Iceland there are any geographic boundaries to reach 1,000. It's just giving the ball to the countryside: You have a very long time to figure out which community you want to create by uniting in the countryside.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u48	Mr. President. In many respects, this body of interpretation proposal is excellent. I'll have to, for example. fill in at the highest level. The secretary of transportation and rural management, commending the management practices of the committee's work that were responsible for taking it together. I also welcome specific goals for transport and communication systems that meet the needs of the population, increasing democracy and participation in decision-making. It was a pleasure to see at last a discussion of digital jobs without a location that increases the possibility of population growth. However, I desperately miss having nothing to do with the electrical security of my rural society, which is extremely lacking and that is urgent to the infrastructure of far too many rural communities. It is the responsibility of the government to ensure an acceptable transport and distribution system of electricity, which is a long way from being in good condition. There's certainly hope that the long - term project will be successful, even though I strongly doubt it will go far enough. At the same time, the government should consider fixing agri-gri-environmental systems, abnormal fishing management, providing voluntary hand fishing and securing transport and the formerly used electrical security in order to strengthen and sustain rural communities, both in the case of flourishing employment and in the security of the population. It is impossible for me to give a deep discussion of all that goals, so today I am especially going to talk about the minimum number of rural population. The directive states that the minimum number of rural partners will be 250 from the general district election in 2022 and 1,000 from the rural election in 2026. There has not been any evidence to show that community unity has led to greater efficiency. There's nothing like a sign between them. Usually the government's down. It is noted that both country and town rulers have a reduced number, but it has also been found that the number of middle managers is getting closer to an unscrupulous one. Unity, however, has succeeded. These are some of the successes of rural communities, but they have also succeeded, and they have been unhappy. I believe, in this case, we have to listen to the population and the communities themselves. I find that in a strategy designed to strengthen the self-control of your community, there are laws that are directly contrary to the self-control of your former members. It's a decoding device. It's media control. In fact, rural communities are being cut together and used for economic yellowing. I believe that suspicion regarding unity and the reason why other rural communities have not joined together is linked with the constant use of efficiency and economy. This makes the people suspicious. I think that practicality and management are first confused, the two terms, and that when it comes to size or economy, people think that cutting will be served. This may not be without reason, for in some areas there has been a cut off in service, in the context of unity, and especially in peripheral areas. We have not yet been able to promote neighborhood counsel, which will be necessary. We need to strengthen our neighborhood council or home control while larger rural areas are involved. This can be called a variety of names. Reykjavíkurburg has experimented with neighborhood advice and has increased independence and even some financial resources. However, this is not far enough to justify the drive of community unity. To me, it has to be looking good. I'm not only a deputy at a council but also a member of a community, so I'm a full - time assistant. I'm beginning to hear that the greatest incentive to follow this strategy and a conquistador that is now asked to think of movement to get more money through an equation fund, which is certainly supposed to be the yellow root for further unity. I think it's best always to focus on strengthening rural areas and strengths rather than on the size of economics and economy. There have been major defects in the communities. They're not democratic, they'd have to take the transparency theory into account with their rule and so on. But I'd like to mention that it is not merely a smaller community that operates in settlements. I'd like to point out that areas that have landed on the local government board for financial reasons that have not been in good standing have not been lower in rural areas than those of the largest rural community in the country. I want it all checked out. I don't like medium control very much. Piraans believe that everyone has the right to make a decision that especially concerns them, and this certainly concerns the inhabitants of all rural society. I also believe I am in the role of ensuring the right of their power less powerful against the more powerful. I think that the big corporations and the Allied are certainly the more powerful when it comes to that, so I'm standing here and I'd like to speak for my communities that have declared dissatisfaction with this law. It's an authority from above. Pirates believe that rather than improve, there is a need to reduce media control in all areas and, of course, improve democracy in all the forms offered. I think, although I see the advantage of many of the strategy's forces, such authority above and involved with local self-management and their inhabitants will not be successful in dealing with state and rural society, and however, communication was strained enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u49	A respectable president. Thank you for your fine speech. I wanted to encourage them. A senator to study the legal opinion when discussing the self - determination of his community. It is only discussed in the report, but then there is a very special document on the Ministry Homepage under that category. That's not true. That's not what happened. A senator, that the service gets worse and that it's a cut. On the contrary, most studies show that services are increasing and improve, and this financial gain is being used by humans. The financial benefit of this procedure is of 3.5-6.5 billion a year as determined by the analysis of two independent agents who considered this matter, who actually know the level of the government. That money, we talked about in the text, could increase the ministry, improve the ministry, including that of others. to young people we stress. They can also begin to reduce debt and, therefore, the cost of their community so that it will become more sustainable over time and more readily available to render service. The government recognizes the Trinity that came in but is not connected to this matter. In my based program, you will see that when a fiber - optic project is completed, funds will be used to speed up electricity development even more quickly. In energy policies and the plans made by the Minister of Industrial Affairs, the precise emphasis is on the power security for all the people of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u50	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. We've got a good answer for the secretary of transportation and the local government. I am well aware of the legal concept of self - determination, but it is said of self - control in the synonym and I'm talking about self - control, which is a democratic concept but not a legal concept, just to make sure we're not talking about apples and oranges. For the sake of improvement, this has not always been demonstrated. In many rural communities that have been united, especially since they have not been successful, this has been linked to the failure of their wishes to unite or that there is a larger rural society that approves but the smaller community, which is a participant in the elections, does not agree, but the larger population has the advantage. The farms? They have been discussed, and I believe that there are people in general who believe that these are the perimeters that will be left out in the ministry. The service often moves into the nucleus of a new rural society, which is usually where most urban areas are, the largest number of people. Digital solutions and communications have not been in good condition so that they do not need to be driven. Net solutions have not been on board so far, not available, and have not been adequately cared for, neither by phone nor by Internet services. This improved, strengthened service has had to be extended beyond that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u51	A respectable president. It is true that it has not been fine enough, and that is why we put in the fiber optic project, in order to ensure all, especially those living in the rural area, as well as the best available access as possible, at least sufficiently to have access to networks and information, and even to place jobs and jobs in their places. That's where we're naturally in a very different place. In my speech, I pointed out that there are very ways in which our communities themselves would be responsible for a little responsibility in their perimeter areas, saying that there is something new that we would need to consider. It's a political control, it's a decision on the part of the Generals, but it's done for the people of the country. It's about the thing that took place. A senator came in and said that the relationship between state and rural society was bad, I have to grieve. A senator with the last financial conference, and indeed a few last, has been saying that things are always getting better and are just really good. Not to be overlooked is the fact that this body of Congress arrangement prepared four platoon leaders from different rural governments from all over the country. It comes from the countryside, it was adopted with an overwhelming part, or overwhelming support, of almost all members of the council. Certainly not all of them and the other people's viewpoints have been listened too. So here it is talking about the overall change for the entire population of the country, not that some citizens of one rural community can prevent it. Is it democratic when we're talking about the overall change in the state of government itself becoming more sustainable and more powerful? I'm ready for a discussion like that. What is democratic about it? But it's also true. A senator who is a member of the community is just as much a member of the larger rural areas. There is also a debate about a democratic angle within them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u52	Mr. President. It is not always democratic that much of a part depends on smaller things. That's my conviction, and I can answer that right now. I'd like to discuss only the changed rules of the equation as a result, i.e. yellow root for joining. It is always focused on size and financial support, that rural society has the ability to carry out its legal duties. I'd like to point out that a government might consider whether the government has the right to carry out its legal responsibilities in the field of health, education and welfare throughout the country. It might be worth the opinion whether the Icelandic state, in the same way as its societies, should go into a community structure or formal cooperation with the European Union or our Norwegian cooperation countries in order simply to carry out its legal duties because I allow myself to insist that over 300,000 countries are insurmountable. But I don't think it would be appreciated if a legal obligation to the minimum size of states were to be taken from outside.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u53	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Transport and Regional Ministers for providing this Parliamentary arrangement for a policy-making strategy in rural affairs until 2033. I think it's been a long time to plan for long-term policy in the affairs of rural society, and I have to say that in all the basics, I can agree with everything that stands there. But there's one thing I'm stuck with, and I can't support. I've told you before, there's no economist - and because I look at my partner why. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson: No business engineer or financial engineer could determine the most efficient size of rural society, the most efficient population, the number that ensures that citizens in a rural society receive the required service and demand. There's no one here. It is quite clear that in recent decades, rural society has become an enormous economy, and the power of the State may, in fact, take part the rural communities as a model in the areas where they have been reduced since 1990 from 204 to 72 today and are most likely to be ahead of further unity. Everything's fine. But there are always ideas of further reductions, and this synonym, which, of course, is in part limited to achieving a further reduction in rural society to increase population population population size. It was noted that in 2016, the sector of industry produced a fine report that proposed a much larger unit of rural society than it may have been or was headed for. In July 2017, a report by the government's secretary for the situation and future of the Icelandic community was published and this year, in April so, if I'm correct, the Ministry's green book was published. All of this is an excellent suggestion for a very important subject. The red thread in the argument for the reduction of rural society to make it more populous is available to all of these involved in the practicality of the size. In other words, there is a hope for practicality and the hope of a lower administrative cost for each population. However, I don't think it's the kind of guide we can use when we consider which population is the most suitable person in each rural society. I want to testify, with permission of the highest power. President, in the ELC, a small rural community, but full community with fire departments, schools, health care, nursing homes, etc. And I give that I know well, and know only until then, even in Grenivík, the inhabitants of a good service but would not meet the minimum requirement for legal action. A review of the Green Book says this, with permission of the highest power. President: The cooperation of rural society must be based on financial, social, and geographical grounds, not just on an appeal number. First and last, however, the population wants to be in charge of such a trip. There is no right number for minimum population in rural areas in Iceland. I'll join with the Gonorrhea Bummer Rumps. In effect, I have claimed that as the distance between the population and the administration is greater than the fact that the community's common financial resources can find a way out than the people's will. There are no neighborhood advice or electronic elections that replace the discipline of the people near to the elected representatives and administration. I'll just mention, for example, the experience of Grafarvogians from their dealings with the authorities in Reykjavík. Little wonder, though, that you sometimes hear ideas in the Grafarvogians that the interests of the Grafarvogians were best paid to leave Reykjavík, since their interests are not carried out in a way that they require. Now it is that it really matters to all of us how we succeed in our business of the community we have chosen to live in. There are many rural communities in Iceland who are exemplary and have been able to integrate a powerful service and what I have called amortizing in terms of individual and business practices. The point is, when reviewing these factors, there is no relationship between the size of the community and the services of the country society provide and the satisfaction of its inhabitants with the services and moderation that are being imposed on people and businesses. There's no connection between us and we're here in the largest community that's a sign of it. So it is clear to me that the size, a large population in a rural society, does not tell all about how to handle business or organization or services and does not comment on the financial situation of the community. And, unfortunately, as I said before, the size of the country is not a warrant for better service to the people. This was shown well in a service survey, one of the annual occurrences of the largest rural areas in the country of Gallup, but the city of Reykjavík withdrew from that survey. The last poll I have is from February 2015. Nowhere were people as unhappy with the services of preschool, elementary school, and the services of disabled, older citizens, and children's families in Reykjavík, the largest community. The report by the Reykjavíkurburg Service Group presented in August 2015 does not contain a beautiful picture. Changes in the city's services over the past few years have been made to become unconcerned and unreceptive. The task force appointed by individuals from the community administration system found that there was confusion of service to citizens and that the quality of the city was affected. Word is, with permission of the U.S. President: Since the city's services are now organized, residents need to have a glimpse of the city's organization in Reykjavík to find out where they will seek service. This is the conclusion of a work group on the economics of the largest community. Looks like we should at least to pause and consider: Could it be that we should simply allow our societies to work together and find out what is the most practical size and how they can manage to perform good service to their citizens on their terms? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u54	A respectable president. We're talking about a proposal to come up with a decision-making plan on the affairs of rural society for 2019-2033 and a plan of action for 2019-2023. It's a thick piece of paper, 24 pages. In fact, it might be contained in a package containing a bow. I'm not very optimistic about the fact that this is working. There's a lot to be careful about. These include when the cases of the disabled crossed over to the rural area. It was done, but it didn't work well, it didn't have money. We know what the situation today is in NPA, a user - controlled personal help. It is known that many rural communities will never be able to handle that category, and as a result, members of the community will be forced to move around if they are going to try to get that type of service. We also know that the farther away from the capital area of rural society, the worse is the service. For some reason, it seems to be the biggest escape from most distant rural areas. There's also something else that you've seen recently, and I'm most afraid of being united by rural society, such as when it comes to uniting the whole South into a community, an Aarnes Council, that the distances become gigantian. You also fear that there will be an explosion in school children. We've seen pictures of a long drive with children on such street roads that it is, in effect, a wonder that the car does not simply break apart. How can such a ministry be offered to children? But it is, unfortunately, done. We in the capital area have also seen how to screw up fantastic ideas, perhaps 30 to 40 years old. I can take an example that I have often taken in talks of the so - called surface roads that were to build above Hafnarfjördur, Garville, and Kopavog and then associate Western and Southland roads. It's been completely screwed up. This would have been a big improvement in the roads in this country. I've told you many times, it's ridiculous that we're still on the ridiculous roadside that if you come to Reykjavík on a flight, you'll have to go through all your rural communities but one, Seljanarnes, to get to the west. It's also a little strange in this regard how we're going to finance it. It's a little tendens and we've seen how the system, the state display, spread. This is where we're uniting and talking about saving and managing by uniting over 70 rural communities to about 30 in the first phase. But at the same time, you do not realize that in ten years, the government has somehow managed to expand the surveillance system by 50 percent at expense. Two hundred to six hundred,700. We're doing something with the left hand that we usually tear down with the right. So I'm afraid it's just a trinket, and I'm sorry I'm going to bite people. We are, for example. in the example of new taxes that the rural communities will probably collect, which are waste taxes. There I fear that they will take the most of what should be least, throwing away the least of their garbage. It's the people who have mentioned to one another. I'm sorry. If we were to do this in any sense, we should weigh waste from every family. Of course, that takes effort. Otherwise, we should build it up so that this tax would be linked to income. It's about time we started thinking about this, considering all the fees and other things. No matter how much money he earns, it would be equal to anyone, not merely the worst of those who should least be paid and who will be remembered for the advancement. We're ruining some kind of stuff. We've ruined the fact that women can feed in the country. We have destroyed certain systems that worked well here in the past while we had much less community. Yet it worked to have a hospital during a quarter of the country. People do not seem to look at things in the right way and do wrong things. I don't have much faith in the fact that this document will change that. I don't think it carries it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u55	Mr. President. We're here to discuss the significant proposal of transport and rural Ministers on a decision-making strategy for the management of rural society in the year 2019-52033 and also on a plan of action, part of this proposal, for 20191⁄223, actions in 11 areas. This proposal, as mentioned above, is carried out in broad consultations with the Ministry, localities and the public, taking into account policies in the regional and application programmes. A vision of the future and the main goals are described in which a film of Iceland is portrayed as a leading nation of solid and safe structures, with powerful rural societies, a valuable creation, and a progressive service. Technology connects regions and Iceland with the environment in balance with the environment. Truly, it is a powerful word, a powerful text, and a lofty objective, and that is what we need. Since its official content, she has received lively coverage, especially among stakeholders, including some of them. Company commanders. As it is about big issues, and often there are conflicting opinions. During the formality of rural organizations, the minister's suggestions have become rather positive, and the discussion has developed and developed a more upbuilding course, perhaps in the past, as discussed in the preceding discussions. What has been most successful and shaken is the immediate step in the 1st Action Programme for minimum number of rural partners, their size and timing of the cohesion process, suggested for the development of the changes in two programmes over the years of 2020-226. These are fireborne and delicate factors, both now and in the historical light, since local government levels of pals and enlargement are quite new. It is interesting, in fact, to look back briefly at this milestone. A respectable president, isn't it the future that counts in the future? This will be answered only by quoting the poet, by permission of the president: That, if it be first, let the former think; without instruction, you will not see what is new. As a matter of community unity, it was the first public discussion in 1943 with an article in the U.S. Government magazine. It was then 1948 that two members of the Parliament proposed a resolution on the management of larger purchases and the need for rapid urban development through a variety of professional resources, a stronger community service, including ... atthewelfare. It was so 1952 that the representative body of the European Union's Council agreed with a unanimous proposal to suggest to the minister order a committee that made an assessment of the need for rural communities that had fewer than 500 inhabitants united, provided that geographic conditions were not inhibited. However, the local representatives of the community immediately expressed fear that the interests of the least community would be dependent on such unity. But that, in 1952, was the basis for the minimum 500 inhabitants. Preparation for new administrative laws began in 1958, and they went into effect in 1961. These included no change in rural society in the country; once again, it was proposed in 1963 for the reduction and enlargement of rural unions. The proposal was well accepted at the scene of an Icelandic country partner, but it had no further progress. It is perhaps the red thread throughout this discussion process all. The guess is taken well, but when the communities start to plough, they hesitate. The route now and wait, and in 1966, the then minister of the nine members of a social committee made suggestions on how best to unite small rural areas as well as to make an assessment of the county ships of the country. A large report was submitted, and the committee proposed drastic changes, reducing the number of rural communities from 220 to 66. The proposal had extensive coverage but little progress. In fact, after nearly a decade, a new government law took effect on 1986, and it was designed to replace existing cohesion and state groups, whereas the cohesion issues were not readily available. However, at that time, 1986, the first time, was a law of forced labor, i.e. Fifty residents at the minimum per rural community, which included rural areas below this population of about 16. In 1991, a social minister appointed a team to provide consistent proposals for the country's desired division of rural communities, as it was called. That team worked fast, finished by the end of the year, and early 1993 provided ready suggestions to unite 185 rural communities at 32. The election was announced by the end of the year, but unfortunately, only one suggestion of this 32 was adopted in every partner community. Of course, it was far below expectations, but the ball had begun to roll, and unity was followed by several. During 1994 rural elections, rural communities in the country had, for example. The reduction from 196 to 171 and still four years later. By then the number had decreased by 47 more. Then, in 2003, a countrymate's unity was restored, but a minister's mind stood to strengthen and strengthen the level of government. It's been going through all this time. It was elected to 2005 in 66 rural communities, with only a small number of 17 cohesion proposals. There were only three new societies. Mr. President. While it may be strongly said that the conversation was then dropped in the unity debate, it is still true that little has happened since then and little has been done until now together, in a formal manner, or in a government or public. In fact, members of the United States produced a bill for this topic during the winter of 2006/007, expecting a minimum of 1,000 inhabitants. New rural laws were accepted in 2009. It contains little discussion of unity, and in fact, the law contains about 50 permutations of 1986. Mr. President. I have followed several factors related to the history of cohesion, and it's a good thing to consider in the discussion. This story has become quite long, and the thread is rich, and we are still in the middle of it. It will be exciting to see if we will succeed. I have come across visits and meetings in the district of the past week, ideal week, that the views among the local rulers are entirely different. What goes through as a red thread, however, is positive to look closely at the suggestions, not closing any doors, but the gap between people is quite wide. This is the history of cohesion experiments in Iceland. Of course, there were a number of viewpoints that it was not reasonable to dissipate societies with a rigid order to unite, with a population limit of 250 and 1,000. They could also be heard of the incompetentness of choosing twice, 2022, and 2006. You might as well take the step to the full. It was also possible to hear opinions that it would be appropriate to unite much larger ones, and it was mentioned in this connection with 5,5,6,000 inhabitants, and cooperation in the language of the disabled. A respectable president. It was quite focused on the representatives of most of the rural communities in my district that I discussed that they had serious doubts about authority in that subject. A law would not apply, it would be natural to give the local people space to discuss that matter. But at the end of the years, it is worth paying attention to what an equal stand has been, but they have come to rural politics during the republican era and have left track there, both in rural and national. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Hannibal Valdimarsson 1958, Eggert G. Þorsteinsson 1956 and Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir 1991 A respectable president. I don't have those words anymore. I'm starting to speak in red light, and it's not a role model.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u56	A respectable president. Thank you very much. This bill and his speech and what we've been discussing with members of the Parliament. I can agree with what was presented in an interesting review. The senator who spoke before me, where the story was covered. It seems to me that there are most conflicting differences in these cohesion issues, and they're always fragile. I have thought over the years that law should not be used. I have not left that view, however, but most of the time, I accept the goals and priorities below. I think there's a lot of good stuff in the bill, and more and less everything that's killed. I call attention to page 8. 3 which discuss cooperation with the implementation of the programme and consultations on the issues of rural society. It speaks of consultations between councils and councils and the Union, that the General Assembly will receive a regular report on progress and implementation of the policy set out here. It is such a course as others that it is very necessary for a world of Congress to be enlightened about what lies ahead. But here, big things are underneath, and giant yellow root is at hand, when it comes to uniting societies, through an equation fund. I don't feel fully supported by certain types of money that have been mentioned, but the committee may review it and see how it has been found. When we senators take care of our districts, ministers like others, we hear a certain view of these unifications, and there is nothing to hide that the small rural communities are subject to. This is about them. They came to be at the Assembly. I know it's a former government manager that some combinations have succeeded better than others, some have succeeded, others have not, as has been attributed here. You hear larger communities complain that the services they negotiate with the smaller ones are always paying. Of course, paying more for the type of service that is agreed on can be solved. Not to be overlooked, however, is the fact that large rural areas in the capital area also have a variety of forms of cooperation, such as the little ones. I think it's gonna be a tough subject at the council, but I understand some of the ideologies behind this. But the perimeters, where everything's going well, will still remain perimeters. I can name GEEKS, no matter who he joins, he'll always be a perimeter. In view of the many ways in which we have done so, people are concerned. I'm still very excited about the research project that's being done in the East, but I think it could be a picnic into what's to come. I don't know exactly whether it's time to make that decision. We also know that in very scattered rural communities, things tend to be sucked into certain places, and therefore I feel that this idea, as presented, by scattered administration, is being made up of funds and decisions that continue to take into each unit, a system that may come to work and encourage other rural communities to unite. Of course, no doors, as mentioned earlier, are to be shut, and the project must be watched for a long time. But I think there's a project that covers a large and large area - there's only 5% of the population in these smaller rural areas, from Deepvogur, down to the city's crescent coast - and transport needs to be good for things to work. If this is the case, it may be a source of encouragement to other rural partners. I was interested that the minister answered earlier with a community service that people don't necessarily choose their deputies to do what the small community needs to do. Yes, it can be true. I don't know how much people think about it at any given time, but I may not have very many words about it. You always have a short time in such a big, important case, but it'll be nice to participate in the discussion when the case comes back here. I think the working situation of an elected agent is a very important case, and it needs to be handled well. Within the Union, much work has been done on that subject, trying to create guidelines and such. There's too much to believe that local authorities in larger communities - and yet the size of the rural community may not be all that matters, since the projects are big - they don't have the opportunity to prepare. The Northern Parliament arranged for people to at least I've had half a job, and that's what I like about you. I've often wondered why a large community like Akureyri doesn't mean full - time work. If you look at your country mate at the degree or greater, you would feel that this is how you should be so that people are really prepared and that you can insist that they don't come into a meeting. In addition, the position of the sexes must be considered, to the extent that the local governments operate. Women last a few hours at work, and meetings need to be considered not always to be left. 5 on the day, etc. That would be in the working situation and the ideal platoon official. I think it's part of making the work attractive. In my rural communities, even though they are not small, the services given are also discussed at a supermarket, and they can be difficult, people are not just at work at work. I'm also going to mention the planned experiment project to set up a democratic site. It turns to the public. These experiment projects are, I think, starting in Akureyri. This is the place of merchandise which is called here; but it was, I think, to give up the price of the purchase. But, yeah, I think it's important too. We've been talking about how for many years there will be a democratic setting for people living in different places. Somehow, we'll never make it any further. People are getting a little lazy about attending meetings, just like this, nothing more than in this, so I thought we should just do that local societies should send out all their meetings in a movie, not just silently, and that it's accessible so that people who didn't have time to watch a live broadcast can observe and recall what has been said at the local board meetings and affect their everyday lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u57	Mr. President. I want to thank you at the beginning of my speech. The head of transportation and rural management for the history and for putting up this fine task. I think there is also good reason to ask a minister for special thanks to the staff who won the case. It is very important that we discuss the affairs of the local members of the council. This is the other administrative level, so to speak. It is a very important decision that has to do with the environment and is that it is very important that we have a policy in how to live. As members of Parliament, there is no doubt about it, there has been a considerable debate in both society and rural society, as well as rural governments, about the way they provide for them the development of these provisions. What may have been most discussed, such as why. Councilmen have established quite a bit, just as it is with a minimum population. It has been about ten years since the minimum number of inhabitants was taken out of the law. As a member of the work force that was doing so at the time, I know the discussion quite well, but it was the time for the masses to be taken out. However, I believe that ever since that, there have been some changes in the level of rural control, including the U.S.A. The fact that rural society has taken on quite a major task, i.e. The matters of disabled persons, who place yet other duties on their rural communities than they had in the past and, though, were getting old. I've been a bit swinging through the years with whether or not there should be some kind of legal issue or not about how many members of the country are supposed to be and have been most careful about the idea that the law of law might not be appropriate, would be of some concern. However, I think we've just arrived at the community project that we just have to seriously examine it. There are also democracies that are involved in this, making it possible for areas of society that do not provide enough service themselves but buy it from something else never to say what that service is or how it is given because they do not choose the representatives who choose the ministry. There's not much democracy in it in itself. Then if we look ahead with size a little further, I'm one of those who have talked through the years that if something was to be taken, they should take on more and more work. As I mentioned, they have recently taken up the affairs of disabled people. I've always been a spokesman for society's taking on the interests of the elderly. In my opinion, college is an obvious project for rural society. But like a dog. Congress officials must see it is impossible for life to take on such a task unless we continue to engulf the phenomenon, such as the balance fund, or let even a larger portion of rural income come from there. At least I don't speak for it. I believe that as they are able to carry out their own tasks, their communities have much more to organize themselves to ensure that the people inside there have real authority to make decisions on how the service is performed and what services are served. This is important to me. I've also spoken for large rural groups together. Not many members of Congress may recall, but I think it is right to remember that it was in 2012 that the town government of Kapavogs agreed to my proposal to make cohesive talks with the rural communities south of Fos sogs, i.e. Garthtown, Hafnarfjörður and Kopavogs, and then indeed Elfness too. However, their discussion did not result in the failure of some of these communities to communicate. For example, I have already spoken of it and believe that larger and stronger units are much more likely to provide varied services and ensure the population can actually find out how it is provided. There are other factors in this proposal that are very important, and of course, there are ten minutes far too little time to discuss them. So I'm particularly going to come to the financial and debt boundaries of my community. In the current law, according to 10%, the criteria for Part A are going to be there if I'm not wrong. It is now suggested that it be reduced to 100%. I think that might be a good goal in itself, but it needs to be some flexibility in this definition. A ten - year adjustment period is surely appropriate in this regard. But for the sake of shock or crisis, I'm afraid there has to be some kind of room for the rural population to react, at least temporarily, and cross those limits. This can be seen in picture 2 of the report, for example. Around the collapse, the majority of rural communities exceed 100%, and their average debt at the time was 146%, which is considerable. There must be some kind of space to cope with the tragedy, and perhaps it is appropriate to think about it a little more. Let's go work on an elected agent. There is yet another subject that has been in my mind over the years. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir came into it earlier that there really needed to be a real challenge, especially when it's thought of that there's a tremendous renewal in rural governments. Even in the largest rural societies, in a relatively short period of time, significant improvements have been made. It can be positive that it is renewal, but when it is much more expensive at the expense of the second sex, it is. Women must ring a warning bell: There may be something wrong in there, perhaps we will not do those jobs so that everyone can do them and anyone will be able to care for those who are interested in them. It's very important, and I think this point needs special consideration. Like what? The members of the council are aware of this arrangement, so that any adjustment in the law will be likely to follow, and I really think it's very good. That, though, gives it a reason. Congressers and society all have the opportunity to think seriously about this matter, make informed and conscious decisions about where they want to get their point of view, and we'll have another chance to look into it when it comes to the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u58	A respectable president. We're going to discuss a Parliamentary arrangement for a policy-making strategy on the affairs of rural society. In accordance with local government regulations, the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs has been preparing a policy-making program of the State on the affairs of rural society. That has been done, and this is now a suggestion. In principle, it is expected to reduce the number of rural communities, so that there are larger and more powerful communities that could cope better with their duties in service and thus meet the needs of society. It is important to the population that management is effective and effective. Thus comes the democratic setting, and the right of the inhabitants is better guaranteed. This is a view toward changing the unit management level with its growth and sustainable goal. The proposal suggests 11 measures aimed at achieving these targets. It suggests a large increase of support through an equation fund because of a uniting community. The work will be done in the work of a report on the current income organisations and a list of income stocks that could move between state and rural society - and I think this may be the biggest challenge; if there is a lot of cohesion left, there will be few more than large rural communities. It's called here, for example. Last night's fee. I think we need to be a lot more powerful and look at more businesses, e.g. capital taxes and hunting fees. We need to jump it up to achieve that thought. It may not always be the strongest one to look for. I think that to go as well as possible as sustainability this team is the most powerful. However, there are also demands to reduce the debt of rural society and to examine local and rural areas. Clearly, the overall objective of government policy in rural affairs is set out by existing status and the role of rural society. Society's role in serving as a member has increased, and they have taken on additional Kingdom privileges, now the last time the communities took up the affairs of the disabled. There, a small number of rural society have cooperated on a project and have done well in most respects. In addition to larger projects, more intensive and more efficient management requirements have been increased. Then new laws, such as social protection laws, have been burdensome for little administration. Small rural communities are increasingly more difficult to carry on the legal tasks they should perform despite the equal intensity of individuals whether they live in a rural community of 50 or 50 thousand. Many smaller rural communities have stood up and protested these proposals and have turned protesting to suggest that rural communities are obliged to unite and that it is the way of enforcing a law on minimum number of inhabitants. It is easy to put yourself in positions and to be on the opposite side or to follow this way that the team and panels on which criteria are best set when trying to take out our rural communities in terms of sustainability. But the question is, Can you draw out other measuring bars? Some who have protested to be a little bit using the excel file, that program is fine as far as it goes, but inside there's one variable called the FCV. If used, a number of them can be found in this relationship. But I'm sure that's what you're talking about. I trust in the church arrangement that is available here, and I now enter a judicial committee to cover the matter thoroughly and call all the viewpoints of the table to produce the light that leads to the bill in this subject. I'd also like to mention experimental projects and ideas from four rural communities in the East. They set ambitious goals, and it's fun to keep track of them. You can visit a specific Web site to see what you can provide for yourself. However, for this to happen, transportation and other things need to be improved. We are also looking to modern - day issues, such as the power of communication in this relationship. I don't doubt that the proposals of the council concluded that will lead to the free love of the country all over the country and that they'll start looking up and seeing where they're best paid. This is important, since the management board of each community is the heart of society, and we must be careful in this relationship and take into account many factors and practices. The country is different, and each group has its own unique position. There are many views in this, but the best harmony will always be when healthy communities pursue one objective and the overall interests of the world are guided. Thus we can develop strong rural areas that work together and even look beyond: How do we view the environment after 2027 so that everything is best? I think it's good that this proposal goes through the council and all the views come up on the table and we'll be discussed as we always do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u59	A respectable president. At first, I'd like to say that this is the finest council proposal. I like very many aspects of it, and especially the main objective, the focus on sustainable settlements and rural areas all over the country. There are mainly two things I would like to establish that are related to both the basic policy and other Pirata policies, on the other hand, the democratic involvement of the population and the democratic funding of the rural community, and on the other hand, the income stocks. These are two very important issues, in their own way, but both face a measure of sustainability. Emphasis to achieve the aim of sustainability says that the financial and economic ability of the individual rural society should be guaranteed for longer periods of legal service to the inhabitants. There's been agreements in all meetings when I've asked the European Union of rural society, national and individual rural areas to the income farms that they simply don't have the resources to fulfill the missions that the rural communities have on their own. No one has said anything about it. This is an enormous and important task to complete. The third item of Action Programme 2019◯2023 is the basis for rural income. I'm not sure the operations will do. The aim of this project is to strengthen the income populations of your community and increase their financial self-sustaining activities. A rural society must first achieve financial sustainability before increasing it. Pirata's course is, for example. certain motivation for a certain type of work within a community, to build a particular type of job. This is a work that requires a lot of resources and four - foot [3 m] cost, i.e. A job that can give an answer to a person's income and that can pay real estate. The two factors encourage a type of work that is a very small part of the nation's work. If we were to give free funds to fellow rural areas to deal with them, we could be able to build up a completely different business in rural areas around the country. Suppose, for example, that rural society has an expansive tax or even an expansive part of a valuable tax. This could make it possible for tourists who are traveling through their rural communities to buy milk at the store, buy accommodations, and other items to leave behind. As it says here, the host's fee will be moved to a farm partner, but it might be enough if it was just a bit of the merit tax. Who knows? What happens when people engage in the everyday life, shop in stores, and participate in a variety of other innovations, which, as in the past, do not necessarily involve many squares or many employees who earn income, is that the independence of professional drivers as such, who only have their own companies and pay minimum wage, as has been achieved, and do not pay much to the local community, all at once, should do so in a much greater way. I think, therefore, there certainly are a lot of opportunities in these areas with regard to rural income institutions and certain incentives to give the rural communities a tool to build a much more varied industry than are now known to benefit the inhabitants. The second point is to strengthen the democratic taking of the people. Then I would like to direct my eyes to the city of Reykjavík, where much has been done in this regard. I have no doubt that they would help with that work, for they say that the work that has been done there is best in the world. There is one more thing that I find interesting about this proposal, that an evaluation of economic effects was going to result in the change in uniting the population that there would be 1,000 inhabitants, i.e. enlargement of the smaller rural areas. The green effect has been estimated to range between 3.6 and 6.5 billion depending on the assay method used. I felt that the analysis I considered was very well made that tells me that we know how to do the cost estimate and responsibilities, although we may be able to get some outsider to do so. In this case, two experts took a month to perform the analysis and returned a very good job. I'd like to link it to the budget, for I'm always complaining about the fact that what's being done in this council is missing. So I say, congratulations, the process of learning is over. I'd like to see it in more places. I look forward to seeing these projects begin and see these ambitious goals achieved. I also look forward to seeing the cost, for it is not quite clear how much each item should, of course. I'm going to let myself have a little bit of a time limit, so I'm going to like it because they don't have the centenarians behind the projects. If this is true, it is wonderful, for the suggestions are mostly good.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u60	A respectable president. We will discuss a proposal for a decision-making strategy on the affairs of our rural society by 2019-2033 and a plan of action for 2019-2023. I agree with what the last speaker said earlier, there's a lot very interesting in the Council of Congress. I enjoyed crossing it with local authorities last week. It was found in the local financial conference that the Parliament's resolution proposal is widely supported. We're in a hurry. There are also many grasses here that are interesting to look at, especially for me as an old mayor. I was mayor of a rural society now joined by another group. When you think back, you may be aware that the first steps may have been taken by starting the team members who succeeded very well. It has even been the yellow root needed for greater cooperation. There's a free market fusion, so to speak. The rural communities themselves made the decision to converse. It is a joy to relate that in the town of Southnes, there is hardly any objection to the unity that took place over a year in spite of some opposition to them at the outset. I think it's normal. During the council, you often feel that there are very many issues that are opposed simply because people are afraid of the uncertainty and the things that are not predictable. I'm not going to extend this meeting period much, but in short, the goal of a uniting community is to strengthen the local government institution, and it's not necessarily to be done by reading everything out of excel documents, see what profits it will be, and how much will be after every year's match, and will be returned to the box. This is a long-term project. A partner's unity is a long - distance runner, with its results coming years after the decision is made and the unity will be achieved. I think it's the unity that has been successful, as these are done smoothly, people who don't quit their jobs, they're reinventing themselves in the staff with time and time, and jobs that are not to be reassigned between ships and docks. The Commission will likely review the regulations in this council resolution on a number of people when it receives the proposal for discussion. But there is no doubt that improved transport is the oxygen needed for such a job. They are often the most important factor in the rural community. I heard in the district of my district of district the most important terms of transportation and landways. Ministers both know very well. Even so, there are major ideas about unity in the South. Already it has been announced that the County Society of the Year's City is going to have a preemptive to bring all the rural areas of Aarnes County to discuss together into one rural society. It is a huge and big deal, and it will be interesting to watch how the communities deal with it and whether they will all come at that table. They'll notice. I also hear that in the Ranger county, we have a positive view of further unity there. I know that Myrdalship and Thomson Stripes have been looking at it, and there they are, east of it, to the Horn of the Earth. These are all the things that have been going on without special legislation or Congress proposal. Hence, it is very important that these matters be examined more closely by the council, and when the council closes its opinion, it is hoped that there will be similar reconciliation among the members of the community who have called for this change. We know that serving those who are disabled and others who are ill calls for greater unity to protect their interests. Many questions are answered in this document, and ideas are presented on how unions between governments and rural communities can be. I'll repeat what I said at the outset, in this piece of paper, there's a lot of good and positive things. I suppose the Environment and Transport Committee will take care of the situation and a fine punch like the committees are prone to do. In the end, we may see the results that others are concerned about, and we may be content with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u61	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank you for your objective discussion. As we have seen, some measures in the Action Programme are not uninvolved, and they are naturally discussed. A number of matters have been observed by members of the Parliament. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson thought of a costly estimate. I think that at the time it is intended for work on the Committee, it will be possible to approach the cost assessment to show more clearly how this can work out. This may help with the work of the Committee. Opinions have been made that acknowledge that in many parts of the world population are subject to a decrease in population size. of unfortunate age distribution. Average age goes up. There is also oneness in employment and less service in many of the smaller rural areas. Of course, there are more forces involved than only the countryside. They're absolutely right. Councilmen who have done so. However, it can be said with some certainty that larger rural areas can help to reverse these disturbing developments in various ways. The Action Programme includes discussed jobs without a location. The government has contributed to them by working on the optics of the whole country so that we can use new technologies to further the services of people who do not live next to the local council or the Service Committee. We can also imagine that with improved transportation and improved communication as well as electrical energy, which was also mentioned here, humans can locate and work anywhere in Iceland. The government must take the lead there with a powerful effort to carry out jobs without a location in its own way. Unlike what happened. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, you can see, are tests of size. However, this size-separation has been determined by some larger societies, probably more than 10,000 inhabitants. So the question comes up, why the 1,000 the way it's suggested? So it can be said that here it is some kind of minimum. There is no one bound by it, and humans can really do what they want to do. In this context, it would be appropriate to mention a very interesting project going on in Strulling Stumps and the Þinger Islands that is called The New World in the North. They're wondering how they'd be able to live in a community that would then be over 1,500 people, with as much as 12% of Iceland in their rural society creating an interesting community in which people from all over the world want to move because they're creating an interesting community. That's a positive thought. By having enough time for this body of Congress, the ball is a little cast into the countryside and the people: What will you do for the future? How do you plan to ensure that it is not a monotonous business life, not a bad trend in dating? How do you intend to ensure that your services are increased? It's not just us at the Council to discuss it. There are residents in each country. I believe that this policy will lead to a good deal of local government to meet the future in order to take advantage of the opportunities and face challenges. The proposal, in fact, means that political leadership is promoted in the rural areas all over the country, being made more powerful and more efficient for all, especially for individual settlements and their inhabitants. It does not mean that communities will be united or united in themselves. They will continue to exist, and they need to be cared for by means of counsel and action, new thought, and innovation. However, political leadership is united. The management board is made more powerful and more efficient for all, mainly for the population. I am convinced that these proposals will be performed and given the support of the Generalis are taking an important step toward promoting the unit management level, increasing the sustainable development of the rural communities so that they can better get the new opportunities I mentioned earlier and improve the ministry so that it will be more uniform and better for all the inhabitants, no matter where they live, and will work progressively to achieve the results of all the challenges we face. The ball is with the locals. The rules of the game are set up at the General Assembly. The time will tell which other steps will be taken to achieve these goals. The key point, though, is that the level of government has to develop to the rhythm of changing society and the needs of the people of the country. It is, therefore, a joy to see that policies that can be developed in order to make sure that they are done. My opinion is that it's not good just to let it go, as may have been tried in some way, because then there's the danger of nothing happening. We're not gonna stop time from getting heavy, not from developing it, and rural boundaries are determined by people. They are not natural laws. You need to wonder, " What system is the best way to cope with today and the future? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u62	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to legalize the law of surgeons and public health. The change I recommend turns to eight. The law of the law, i.e. Improbable encephalopathy. The change as shown in the bill indicates a lack of control, however, is a major and significant disease category that has not so far been met with the scheduled registration criteria. These also include cardiovascular disease, diabetes mellitus, and neurological disorders. This bill was previously submitted to a 149th legislature but was not then discussed, so it is submitted unchanged. We're talking about a fairly common problem, i.e. In most cases, brain dysfunction. They are grossly divided into a number of diseases, but there are three or four major diseases, i.e. alzheimer's disease, which is the most common of these diseases, is a dementia of the second, mixed with the disease of the two above mentioned ones, followed by other diseases such as Lewy disease, reversible encephalopathy, and alcohol-related cerebral insufficiency. It is estimated that there may be somewhere in Iceland between 3,000 and4,000 people with alzheimer's disease, and then the total number of people with congestive heart failure at any given time may be between 4,000 and 15,000. This list is suggested to be added to the problem of brain failure, and this is especially so when such diseases are diagnosed, they can be kept in their arms. This is very important, for instance, to ensure that the development of these diseases can be carefully monitored. This is especially important when we consider that these include diseases, which in most cases have no known treatment for. So it is very important to know the size of the problem at any given time. A very large proportion of people who have brain problems in Iceland end up in nursing homes, which is better off not all, but there are many. Thus, the number of people who have brain disease at any given time tells us something about who may be expected to be in the nursing home. That is why it is important to keep this in mind. It is estimated that about 300 Icelanders are diagnosed each year with congestive heart failure, at a rate of 1.5◯2% of the population at any given time, 5% of those 65 years of age and older, and the population's growing age can be expected to have a growing number of people with these diseases. The cost of society is not only government costs but also the cost of individuals and families involved. A bill ensues into the Alzheimer's disease and the type of brain failure it is. There is an article by Dr. Steinunn Þórðardóttir, a specialist in aging medicine at a Land Hospital ▪ University Hospital. I strongly encourage members of the Parliament to read that article, for there are some very important items of knowledge, including the following: Factors that can affect the existence of the disease and whether it is given or not. That's even. Life - style factors, i.e. The nine factors listed in Steinunn's article are quoted in the 2017 medical journal Lancet. It is estimated that out of all cases about 30% may be explained by lifestyle factors alone. It is of interest if you think that most doctors, of course, view alzheimer's disease as a histological change. They wonder: " How can histological change be due to factors such as a low level of education? ' Yet, this has been shown by humans, and that is interesting. Knowing the size of the problem, society will make it easier for both investigators and even the government to provide funds for research on projects, provide funds to work against these less - important life - style factors. So it is important that this be checked and made up in Icelandic legislation. I would finally like to mention that the number of delegates on this bill, 12 members of Congress, is very happy. I don't doubt that many more people would have liked to be with me. I'm going to leave it at this point, Mr. President, and look forward to the discussion, but I'm especially looking forward to it. The welfare committee will address this matter, amputate it, and complete it so that we can make this change in the Icelandic law of this group of patients for the benefit of this group of patients.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u63	Mr. President. Under this program, we will discuss a bill to legalize the laws of the surgeon and public health, with subsequent changes, a list of vital brain disease. It's time, it's urgent. The bill is being submitted a second time, but it was submitted to the last assembly, 149th C.E., at which point he was present among the immigrants. For some reason, probably because of folly and by accident, I didn't borrow to be on this paper, but I support the bill with my mind. In some cases, more than one disease is involved in a group of people suffering from a severe illness. It is a group that requires much care for caregivers and, in many cases, a large and variable service from the health system. As the disease process progresses, the need for services is increasing. It is important that the correct diagnosis of the individual's problem be confirmed on time. However, taking the step as well as for those taking care of people may be delicate and challenging, for this is a heavy judgment, a story to be told as it is. At the 146th Parliament, an agreement with the General Assembly agreed that there would be an overall policy in the affairs of individuals with congestive heart failure. The person standing here brought it up. That proposal was accepted, as it were, in progress. It will be interesting to see how a minister's motion will look. This is a policy that involves the ministry, the registration of the disease, the theoretical work, the scientific work, the education and support of those who are in a state of mental illness and those who are equally important. Most of the countries around us have advanced policy in the affairs of this patient group, and we are rather late. As it turned out in a fine review of the apocalyptic, prosecuting, and a messenger, giddy. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór son of Gunnarsson is a large group in Iceland. We don't know exactly how big he is. In the mid - 1990's, the number of people suffered from this disease, often called alzheimer, who spoke of the fact that there are 3,000,4,000 people, and more if we count all the other brain failures. It is most common to talk about that disease, and it may be a little more cautious in the discussion of putting everything under that one disease. We have used foreign figures, both west and east, and we are likely not to be different from other nations, even though we sometimes want to make ourselves a special nation, especially in some fields. That's the way it was at least For a while. However, we still stand out in some respects, younger than the neighboring nations, and the same is true of evolution. We've begun to destroy this reality as other nations, so, as they say, we're in a good place to prepare us a little bit better. This bill is part of the work that health professionals, health professionals, health care, and hospitals can better identify it. The surgeon general and the health authorities can therefore take into account this, as shown in the bill, in their strategy and in their assessment of health development, whether it is as normal as it can be, as well as the results of the human instruments. As noted by whiskers. A senator cannot see the end of this trend, and it is not in sight to be reversed or to feel a cure for these diseases. We can prepare to increase the number of cases, for now we are getting large years into the stage of the disease, which is the most common, i.e. the years of the postwar years. More than that, we need to focus on serving those at home. We need and are going to live better with those who choose to live at home. It is not realistic that we can continue our course of development with a foundation structure like that of no other day. There are very expensive advantages, and society will not change its amount to live up to it all the longer. It will be a challenge to live with people at home, and it may not all be possible, for it is a complex and most challenging disease for those close to them, known as those who have stuck close to them. This weight cannot be expected on its own. What an important part of this project is the support of caregivers. There have been various ways to support families, and there are more successful studies in this area. A respectable president. I'm going to say that the adjustment in law on this team will contribute to a more targeted registration, but it's an instrument that health care professionals may have needed in their toolbox. It is also easier for families to cope with this challenge, to find sooner and safer to analyze. That's hard for a lot of people. I hope at this council of 150th, we are lucky to follow this bill all the way to the dock and that it may become a law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u64	Mr. President. I'm with an importer on this matter of changing the law on surgeons and public health, i.e. to ensure that a surgeon maintains a report of cerebral dysfunction. I think it is in general good that we keep a list of diseases, especially when dealing with diseases that are taking place in many parts of the community. Although they all do so in some way, it is something that appears to many and many others. Like what? paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson came in and mentioned in the article entitled "System, " which includes the bill has a large number of people in the United States suffering from this disease. If the number of people are overrun in Iceland, it is an enormous cost for the resulting community and is seen in so many ways apart from what affects characters and actors in the survival and survival of the players. This article explains that about 200 patients are waiting for specialized daily training in the capital area and that the waiting period is considerable. It is noted that if people do not receive such help in two years, there may be a great return. I think it is important that the report on the problems that can result from developing such a disease or from being on the side of it. Surely all of us would agree that we want to resolve these matters in a variety of ways. Some are suitable for chemotherapy, other behavioural treatments. More important, we need to consider those who are in great need of support. I don't think that much is as difficult as watching a close family member disappear a little intellectually from you. Although most of us have managed to take good care of a sick relative, this is different in many ways. I'm not going to put disease in a box as far as it goes, but what we are facing may also be financial. The sufferer may not have an acceptable situation, and relatives may need to come to the aid of their mates and children in some way. There may also be only one person, but not many, and the individual may vary in his or her circumstances. Those who have studied this disease know that it can fail in many ways and who help and care for the patient are not necessarily due to the difficulty of symptoms. Uncontrollable people can do otherwise. There is so much help that people may need. One thing that health - care ministers have been trying to find solutions is how to care for their needs in a more varied way. The day is one, the behavioral treatment is second, and then the third. I think it's very important to look outside the box so people don't lock in, the patient and the others, that they don't even have to stop working, get out of company, or something like that because it's hard to leave the person at home. That's a lot of money. We also see that more and more young people are diagnosed with the disease and are acting. This was a cover - up for a long time, especially if younger people were diagnosed with this disease. Now we see younger and younger people and their caregivers presenting and expressing themselves on the problem. That's why I think it's very important to find a variety of ways. To that end, we need to, as suggested here, reach out for the population, to control how many are involved. Here's your guess. You need to identify the age and status of these people, try to learn from what has been done elsewhere. This points to Sweden, where these matters have been handled considerably. I don't have much doubt about the fact that this situation is being accomplished, which I really hope will be, because this is a very important matter. As a carrier said, it is a low priority, but it can be important for the development of how we deal with the huge task of disease. Of course, all of us find it difficult to wait for some options, and at times we need to make some adjustments in order to deal with the problem appropriately because they are different from the rest of us even if they are ill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u65	Mr. President. I recommend a judicial hearing on the construction of high-tech garbage dumps. Transporters besides me are nuts. Councilmen Anna Kolbrún of the Year's Árnadóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Bergþór Ólason, Bjöl Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Issun, Sigmundur of Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson, Sigurður Páll Jónsson and Þýstein Sæmundsson. The motion says so, with the permission of the president: ▪ The General concludes to hide environmental and resource secretary to investigate the practicality and potential for building high-tech waste management centers that most treat all or all wastes that cannot be recycled here. The minister introduces the results of the survey by April 1, 2020, to the General of the Council. This proposal was previously made at a 149th legion but was not granted, and it is now presented largely as unchanged but as part of a report. Mr. President. There is much more to discuss now than pollution from mankind and the fact that the mother of the earth is suffering ill at the treatment we offer her. One of the problems faced is what to do with all the garbage we leave behind. We can no longer just throw it away, so we have sought to find ways to dispose of it, so as to minimize pollution of it. Long off, we had simply buried our garbage in the ground and here and there, Mr. President, that's keeping garbage buried in the ground on a country where the risk is needed to be identified. In view of the recent changes in waste generation, we have come to realize that much of that waste is not broken down in the soil, as it may have been before when its composition was not present. In this country, the number of wastes has increased over the last few years. In 2016 the amount of waste fell to over a million tons. Most of the wastes, however, are considered passive wastes, soils, and various materials that do not involve contamination of waste or waste disposal. The EEA annual report for 2017 reports that the situation has become that each country averages 660 kg of household waste per year. Part of it goes to recycling, but the rest of it is mainly available at designated locations throughout the country, including And in Eelphensi, and in the hole of a fool, and in Mirem, and in the Coedus. A garbage dump in Eelfunnes has a work permit to receive and waste up to 120,000 tons per year. By 2018, there were over 141,000 tons and considerably less in the previous year. The waste industry in Western lands has been authorized to become the victim of wastes in a prick's hole in Murmium as much as 15,000 tons a year. By 2018, there were over 15,000 tons of waste. North-in-bs. has been authorized to grow up to 21,000 tons in St.K. By 2018, there were nearly 22,000 tons of waste, but only a little less than a year earlier. Thus, a total of 158,550,000 pounds [1,550,000 kg] of garbage was disposed of in 2018. Waste management can cause long - term shallow water pollution and toxic soil as well as heavy land management. In recent years domestic waste has not been transferred from Iceland to burning in countries other than toxic materials, e.g. oil wastes have been sent to other countries to recycle, e.g. for use as fuel or otherwise for energy production. Recently, there have been ideas of sailing with garbage to Sweden and other countries for incineration at so - called high - tech dumps. This morning, I read a report from the Mayor of Elfusi that the country society wanted to transfer unclassified waste from the country in cooperation with the Icelandic latrine society to the Netherlands. As he put it, the Dutch will eat waste from that region. Incinerators are equipped with special equipment and cleaning equipment to burn waste and can be used by a person formed during the incinerator. In 2016 there were over two thousand such dumps around the world. There are a number of these in Europe. In Iceland, there is one garbage dump that has a license to use garbage, which is the welcome, classification, and incineration centre of Kalka, owned by the Southern Community. This facility can burn up to 12,300 tons a year and is prepared for a low level of cleaning equipment. At the station, most of the land's hospital wastes are being cremated, as well as some of the chemical waste that falls here. In recent years, less than 12,000 tons of garbage have been burned every year, estimated to be 6% of the waste harvested and burned in this country every year, when waste wastes are combined and consumed. The production of energy from the waste can be accomplished, but electricity production has been down for years at the station. The European Union aims to ban waste disposal around 2030 and has adopted a policy in many European countries to burn rather than waste. In accordance with the national waste management programme for the 20133/42024 period, waste disposal is aimed at improving and greatly reducing the price of waste. That's where even the two of them come from. until the rise to the most common route of waste in the country has been reduced but in recent years there has been a significant decrease in the number of waste wastes available. Based on an integrated report on pollution pollution control. For the management of waste over the next few years, a regional waste management programme will also be discussed in 2009-2020, which covers the four waste areas. That's where even the two of them come from. until the governments of the waste community have decided that there will be no more organic and cremating waste than next year. The aim is to reduce waste production, but treat organic waste with gas and land type stations as possible. It also discusses different methods of handling wastes and their priorities, including the type of waste that needs to be burned. In this regard, there is a difference. expected to be tested for the efficiency of the burn centres via heat management and the practicality of exporting waste to non-cineration. Mr. President. Clearly, with increasing environmental demands, the nations of the world will have to make arrangements to eliminate the environmental and economic wastes produced by them. Therefore, it is time for Icelanders to set up their own high-tech dumps based on the highest level of pollution prevention requirements. High - tech dumps have many advantages. By burning garbage in a high-tech incinerator plant, waste is converted into efficient energy, electricity, and heat. Then the latest high - tech dumps provide relatively low air pollution, far within legal limits. Less land goes to waste, and ground water is less contaminated. Research shows that incineration of carbon lines in highly developed dumps is less than a collection of wastes. Consider, for example, the example of a new high - tech dump at the Amazon in Copenhagen, a station that began in the middle of 2017. In 2018, 443,000 tons of garbage were burned there at the station, resulting from some 600,000 inhabitants and some 46,000 companies. The wastes are treated with electricity and heat for 150,000 homes. A total of 1,090 gigava hours of heat energy and 170 giga hours of electricity per year are produced. The temperature at incineration is over 1000°C which reduces pollution, with fewer pollutants being eliminated from waste incineration. As evidence of the low pollution station of Amager, the outer walls of the incinerator have been set up as climbing walls, and the roof is cremated. Mr. President. It is important that Icelanders take steps to recycle as much of the waste as possible and spend the remainder in the way that has fallen to protect nature and environment. This will contribute to the protection of the natural environment for living and future generations and will show that Iceland is responsible to dispose of its own waste with as little pollution to the environment as possible. The Environmental and Resource Ministry is now developing a waste policy, while the policy is being sent to reporters in July. Transporters rejoice that the overall policy of wastes will be set, but it is absolutely necessary that the Council declare its will that the practical construction of high-tech waste agencies will be examined, and this will be made conclusively by the approval of this proposal. In view of all of this, it is suggested that a minister be assigned to investigate the possibility of constructing a high - tech village center in this country. Such a station could treat cremated waste from the whole country. The amount of waste to be cremated in this country could be about 100,000 tons if recycling and categorization are to be introduced to modern values. This survey would determine which members, countries, communities, or other members could be involved in the construction and operation of such stations, how large it would have to be, and where practical it would be to build it. taking into account the transport of waste between parts of the country and the so - called cold regions of the country. It is initially important to investigate the cooperation of all rural partners on the project, while rural society determines the structure of household and management and household waste. At the same time, the price for waste needs to be determined and the amount and cost of rural society are available. Thus, the benefits and defects of the construction and operations of such stations would be checked for any new disposal options and are intended to be used. At the same time, electronic energy and heat production would be investigated, which could be released and sold, with particular attention to locations near the cold areas of the country. Transporters assume, with the agreement of this proposal, that the Minister will present the World Council investigation by April 1, 2020, or the next spring. Mr. President. As soon as I present my case on this proposal, I suggest that following a discussion about it, she be referred to the treatment and discussion of the AlCounty Environmental and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u66	Mr. President. I'll share my concerns with him. A trader of wastes in Iceland. Waste management is not in good condition. We look for ways to build a national organization that takes a firm grip on all of this. It's not that different between rural partners. What we normally call waste management is a fairly integrated process. We're talking about sorting and renovating and renovating may in part be here. In part, it is foreign, metal, and corruption material. We're talking about the watch and we're talking about the highest. A traveling overseer agrees that it needs to be cut down very much so that it really will only be ours in the case of inactive waste. Then it's the incinerator I'm gonna come to. It is now in the form of - and must - primarily the burning of waste from hospitals and such. The export now being carried out and will take place primarily in emergency solutions because these materials cannot be won or removed in a sizable way. I'm totally against the fact that waste is being exported for a long time, but as an emergency, I can totally agree with it. Then high-tech incineration. Of course, it is an improvement in the use of municipal waste, which is not fully environmentally friendly, in general. It releases carbon dioxide. It releases less toxins than it used to. Its ashes are dangerous and must be exported, and especially, the cleansing that is present primarily for hovering. This is an excellent solution in many parts of the world, especially in cold areas in foreign lands, but there are other solutions here. Then I would point, for example. ... onthenewVeasePresidentage in the Western Islands. Therefore, my question is: Why highlight the degree of high-tech application in this country when other and environmental solutions are residues? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u67	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson is very excited about this answer. In effect, he asks one question: Why emphasize this point? Mr. President, that's quick. It is suggested that environmental and resource ministers be assigned to investigate the practicality of such stations. This is not a suggestion to build a station like this. Its practicality is being examined. There's been a lack of solutions in these areas. I'm well aware that there's a statement being made in the Ministry. She's not here to see us, she's been working on. Of course, I wish that this case will be handled, but this is to push afterwards and we'll be checked to see if it pays. We cannot, Mr. President, be known for gathering such garbage as we have. There are well over 250,000 tons of waste here every year. Should we move things that cannot be classed and recycled - which will always be considerable amounts - from country to burning? Shall we? Does it pay with all the evasion of ships that follow and by exhausting automobiles to drive them to the ship's gates and from the ships' gates abroad? Is it the solution, perhaps to move 100,000,150,000 tons from abroad to incineration? Is that the solution? I don't see that it can be more practical, but, above all, this poll has to be done, look at it. How much is this gonna cost? Can this be run? This may be applied to some cold areas, such as, for example. on the weather, as ideas have come up, not from me, but from other sources.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u68	Mr. President. No, exporting is not the answer at all. That's exactly what I said. When it comes to the practicality of waste disposal, as is often called, it is usually very small. It is usually so that we have to pay with this. That's the whole result. This waste management business is being reviewed at the Ministry, and that's what I'm very much following. I have even written a memo to the Ministry asking that this be done in two ways. One is to examine, as I was speaking, the diverse, which makes it necessary to export wastes - but metals and pollutants and so on. The other, really looking, as this is meant by, high-tech combustion, and even a container transport ship going around the country. I'm on it. But the thing is, if it's about to burn about 100,000 tons of garbage, I'm against it, and that's because it's carbon dioxide emissions. It is thousands of tons of dangerous ash that must be removed from the country, and this is waste of raw materials because most of the things we send from ourselves, trees, glass, food, metals, etc. all but raw material, although these monotonous products can eventually be made up of inefficiency. My conclusion is to examine both solutions, but I don't think the one who does not expect largely so-called high-tech solutions - which I repeat is not fully environmentally friendly - less possible than the others.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u69	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for his second answer. This is an interesting discussion, and I would have had more time to answer. Senator. There are so many things that are included in his words. Of course, some of these garbage, metal, and glass can be recycled. It's coming back from the incinerator. This can be done before it goes to burn, but there will always be something left. Hv. A senator said that these waters are not fully environmentally friendly. No, they're not, and they probably never will be. But the price of waste produces more greenhouse gases than incineration. Another factor he says is that his conclusion is that it is not working, so he is against it. Why don't we let a minister take a look at this before we figure this out? Should we not allow an opinion to take place before making a decision on this matter? I want at least To do so. The ashes from these infusions can be used in part. Yes, you can, Mr. Senator. The little thing? Of course, practicality will never be very high in waste disposal. There's always something to pay for. That's right. In view of the suggestions presented in the next year, what will new tax returns to the government's plans for the next year? They will return a charge of 2.7 billion. every year. What are we quicker to build such a station, even though it's not bigger than I mentioned earlier, for that money? Or where is the money to run? I believe it is best that it will solve the problems we face.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u70	A respectable president. We will discuss a proposal for a resolution on the construction of high-tech dumps. The first carrier is a dog. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason. I want to start by thanking him for the initiative he shows by offering a suggestion to hide the environmental and resource minister from the economy and the possibility of building a high-tech dump. I think we Icelanders are about to become self-sustained in destroying our own garbage. There's no way we're exporting garbage and we don't have any solutions in this country. I'm not going to follow all the good suggestions and situation. In the past, a senator traced to the last district week, when we were in trouble. Congress officials have taken care of our districts, burned these most of the business in all the rural governments, to resolve the issues of waste management or waste disposal. Waste levels are naturally high, as we have seen, and we need to find ways we can become self-sustained first. As a result, when this suggestion is presented, I've been looking at the possibility of reentering coastal cruises in Iceland by private or state and rural society. One of the factors to be considered is the export of wastes around the country where waste and other dry transports are collected quickly. That would relieve the stress of roads. Such suggestions are ideal for considering the idea presented here. That's why I believe in this suggestion of integrity. It is important that Icelanders take steps toward recycling as much as possible. There is also the basis for all of this, as presented here. Likely, the basis for such wastes is recycling and what can be sold from, both heat and electricity. That is why such a burning process is made available in cold areas. I reiterate my gratitude to the chairman of this council resolution, hoping that it will be addressed to the committee, and that it will be handled there and ministers will consider these matters, as is indicated here. I hope we get answers to this as soon as possible so that Icelanders can stop looking at themselves and be proud of what it's going to be like in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u71	A respectable president. The present situation is a bit difficult and unacceptable, so surveying all possible ways to do better is something that I definitely agree with. That's what this council proposal is about, and that's why I'm with her. Even if there are better solutions than high-tech waste dumps, however, relatively large amounts of waste that can be used or destroyed by other methods than this one. Hopefully, there will be better solutions as soon as possible, but until then, we will consider all the possibilities to get the best results as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u72	V.E.G. President. I come up here to thank the proponent and executive authority of this council decree, Karl Hjaltason Hojaltason, for bringing this up on the construction of high-tech dumps. It has been said in speeches that we have a big problem with how we deal with garbage in Iceland and have been around for a long time. They are on television and radio almost every day, and in the media advertising: Let's stop growling, let's go around, look out for ourselves in these matters. So I think of the step taken by putting it into practice. There is a large guard post west of Minrem, in Braunk, in a fool's hole, in a village in the Westland. That's where the garbage is run and it's pissed. I well remember that this was a big issue back then, but it was still done. There are tons of garbage driven there, and I recall just what is now being said to be the case, that pollution from this could reach groundwater, even water. Also, there is no missing waste, similar to sweeping it under the carpet. When I was young, the trash was flushed off rocks and set on fire. But it doesn't work any more. It's not acceptable today. The burning stations have been installed and contaminated, but now it's a lot of technology that can be done -- I don't exactly say, all pollution, as we've seen, but it's gone blank. Moving waste out of the country is the natural next town to sweep it under the carpet. It's putting it in the garden with the next man, not a role model at all. Coastal cruises with garbage were mentioned, if we were to accept our responsibility in this and take care of destroying the garbage itself. It is natural to feel a lot of stress when a large ◯treileras are driving around the country. This has been greatly increased by the failure of the government's beaches and its decision to abandon them. But I've often mentioned in a lecture that many goods that don't need to be moved in one day from A to B would probably pay to move around here on Iceland's coasts and garbage are definitely among them. It doesn't run so easily on time. So that I rejoice in this decree of the assembly; for I am one of the messengers. I expect a body of Congress to support it so that something can be done in the garbage business that is a serious operation, not just, as I said earlier, can be swept under the carpet. The second category is natural something that might be large, and I agree with it, as noted in the speech of the otter. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson. There are many places where this is really wrong. For fun, it may be that west of Stykkisolmi began the collection of garbage some years ago and is very successful. It has arrived in many parts of the country. However, the classification of garbage seems to be at the back of the population here in the city of Reykjavík, which is somewhat harsh in the national capital. The further category of waste is something that must also take place, and this suggestion is a step toward dealing with these issues, starting a serious campaign for waste in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u73	Mr. President. Official discussions about the environment in Iceland are largely virtual and visual. It may be best to see how many who give up to be environmentalists during this discussion today, a discussion that will consider that if it comes out well, it will solve a very major problem with waste management in Iceland. Where are the environment now? Where are they? Why are they not in this discussion? Actually, there was one before, what. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson. I'm sorry he's not here to hear me talk because he took the time to move our junk out of the country and throw it into others but burn it here at home, because the incinerator is burning. But there's also expansion from orders that we use to get our trash to the neighbor, and not smaller. We may want to find out if more is being released, the vessel that brings wastes out of the country, or possible incinerations. It seems that, in my previous life, I was working at the Environment Ministry when two Icelandic dumps were removed. One was in the Western Islands; the other was in the Roft River. This was because - and I'm not minimizing - that digoxin pollution was revealed from both of these settings. They were worried that in Western islands the smoke would come down to the town of the flame. There was also concern that digoxin would turn for food in the Skaft River Swamp. I'm aware that then the government of Thomson and Thomson had the case checked and looked for digoxin all over - in grass, in livestock products, in women's breast milk. There was nothing for digoxin. The infusion was canceled. What was done? They were united in growling. Sometimes it's like me and the Icelanders think if we dig any problem, it'll go away. But it's still there. In the Skaft Year crisis, they met with their neighbors, in Puppy Field, and in the Vikings, to run the trash a lot of tracts and dig into sand. That's where it disappeared, but it's still there. What I said before, that talking about the environment in Iceland was a spectacle, maybe the best thing to do is that we are now, while we became 250,000 tons of garbage a year, banning plastic bags - which are 1% of the garbage that falls on the land, if I remember correctly. The government will end up in the private car, which may pollute 3◯4%, but we will not agree on who to make sure that black oil - burning cruises are connected to electricity from the country when they are docked in Iceland. We don't agree on that, and that's why it's not done. We look at the little problems, and we look at things that can be solved so that they look good in the media, but we overlook big problems. I'm not going to mention spills that are in many parts of the country for so much fun and shame that there could be a special discussion at the council, and it would be urgent to do so. However, talking about spills is not likely to be very popular, but it seems rather messy. On the other hand, banning a plastic bag is a rather noble assignment. I'm surprised that no more people are involved in this discussion because this is a suggestion to make a practical consideration of whether we can, in particular, burn garbage in Iceland. Yes, we have a lot of hot water and we have a lot of running water, and there's no energy shortage in Iceland except that energy can be moved out of the country because the ringline is in trash, which is another matter. Could we not still use burning on these products, this product? Couldn't we use it to produce electricity? I'm sure he will. Now we're going to start producing electricity in windmills, small activations. I'd like, for example. It's nice to see how much electricity a kilohour would cost from this high - tech combustion, it would be interesting to get it out. Of course, we need to take all this chain. The chain begins at home with us. As soon as we buy something we're not going to use or we don't use and throw away, we sort it out. It's been done here because I know why. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson, in Stykisholmi, is an entirely exemplary community in the category of garbage and has certainly been for 15 to520 years, if I may tell you the truth. It is of great interest that larger rural areas seem unable to adopt the tremendous number of classifications, e.g. there. That's very sad because if it was done, e.g. In this area, we would naturally reduce the amount of waste, and of course we should. What about moving our garbage to a foreign country? I mean, we're the same people who are dying that the Western countries are moving waste to Third World, but we feel like it's all right to move garbage to the states, to our friends, so they can burn garbage there. I'm sure we do. A fine man who came on the news the other day was proud that the garbage he was exporting was used for electricity production in Álaborg or house warming and electricity production in Sweden. He was very proud of it. If he had told us that it was producing heat for houses in the Western Islands or in a cold country in Iceland, I would have understood the pride. But shoveling trash into a container and carrying it out with ships burning black oil and claiming to be doing some environmental benefits - that is a natural perfect hypocrisy. There are words first. Of course, we don't go out on a fairy tale like this. In fact, if I recall correctly, the first proposal for a long time to appear at the Council, which takes place in a kontrette problem and says, "There may be a solution, shall we consider it? Instead of dwelling on your show-and-tell, like here's the news in these cases. I am amazed that there are others who are not involved in this discussion, especially those who give themselves over to caring for the environment. I'm glad to hear it. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson is here in the audience, but I miss that there are no more. I myself am very proud to be a associate of this matter, and I think we should do more than just recommend specific environmental problems. We should, for example. to have a new assessment of how drainage is implemented, especially in the scattered areas, and to make a major effort there. We should have it checked out completely and then offer suggestions for improvement. That'd be a great idea. Therefore, as I say, I hope this proposal for practicality and possibilities in this case is carried out, and I do not doubt that there will be any discussion, e.g. They call them experts on the committee. I have no doubt that it will also provide information that will benefit us from taking over the entire chain, from the garbage collection and groupings in our homes, and until we hopefully get our garbage off, not into the ground to pollute ground on a longer term. I think people should be careful of the examples that have already occurred. They already dug up old junkyards where people have, for example. A new construction site was being organized, both here and on the Southnes and beyond. In fact, I thought this hell was enough to be thought of twice before they began to bless the guards and increase the price to a great degree. So I hope that this proposal will receive good publicity on a committee and speed of treatment through the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u74	Mr. President. I'm here for a speech chair in one short answer. I'm supposed to have a meeting at the bottom of the hill with foreign visitors now in the afternoon. 15 So I don't have time for a lot of words. Senators. I'm going to correct a statement that I like the export of garbage, if any. A senator thinks I'm recommending him. I called him an emergency. We know exactly why it is. It's just because these cases have been out of print for a long time. It's been building up. Then they take hold of the council. But I'm against garbage exports in general, and I said so earlier. We both know that. The other is that I came to the point where I wrote, long before this council concluded, a memo to three Ministers with a request for an assessment of the total waste system in Iceland, and I laid out two options because I have met the men who have spoken for it by an engineering office and a company in this country. It is high-tech, and it is a round trip with either ships or cars, collection, accumulation. That's the second choice I asked for. The other is the one I call recycling solution, with 90% of the material being handled at home, the metals exported, the spillages being burned, the inactive waste being recycled, and the rest are recycled because this material is essentially raw to a variety of materials. And finally: I'm not protesting this council resolution or making contributions because she's doing pretty much what I'm asking for. I'm just taking my stand right now on one side.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u75	Thank you. A senator is very impressed with this answer, and of course I respect him that he has to be elsewhere in a meeting and can't have more part in this discussion, for I was not focusing on him specifically when I told him that there was a lot of people who taught themselves about the environment. He's not alone, that nice senator, but, of course, it's good he corrected me that he doesn't like moving garbage abroad. I believe it. But the other is so different that there are many lions in the way of renewing 90 percent, like a whale. The senator said. I remember my former job that at the time, I asked a lot about whether glass can be recycled in Iceland. I didn't have enough of that because I didn't have enough volume. Similarly, I understand that we can't, quite remarkable a few pieces, recycled aluminumes, all the cans that fall into the world, and we use benecid is gathering on this package very good here in Iceland. It's a very large proportion that is reassembled, but there's not enough to allow us to rebuild, I understand. So I think 90% of recycling is a very distant dream. There would be a great need for us to examine our ability to do so. Of course, it would be desirable and very successful if possible. There's something else in it, other metals. It has also been discussed whether other metals can be piled up here. That was the same answer. The amount is not enough. We'll pay our little fees there. But that doesn't change the reality of what's going on in Iceland and is predictable in the immediate future is natural below all the caves. That's why this suggestion is so good.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u76	A respectable president. To scold people for not participating in discussions for some reason with previous years.? Not sharing in discussions is no sign of apathy or apathy. To scold people for not participating in the discussions from some environmental perspective and calling it virtual - making it a link to a lot of people who are interested in the environment but who are not involved in this lack of interest in the environment - it's showy, respectable senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u77	Mr. President. Hv. A senator is an expert on ethic. He also explained it in the discussions last night, if I recall correctly, and not with very good results. But this time the senator is confusing two things I said. I said that a conversation about the environment in Iceland was marked by ethicism, and I'm on top of it. And I said that many of the government's resources were virtual, and I'm also doing the same. I reasoned with you earlier. I wasn't scolding anybody for not participating in this discussion. However, I expressed surprise that those who put it out ahead of us are not part of the environment. When it comes to these facts, and now I can't say that Mr. President Conconkret, a speculative proposal to investigate a somewhat major environmental problem, it surprises me that those who tell us that they are more environmentalists than we want to participate in the discussion. But it may be because I have to criticize or feel it, or if it is strange, that it is mere showyness. Like I say again, what? A senator is an expert on this word. But I'm not going anywhere, and I've already come up with an example of how the environment in Iceland has come, e.g. by the government, if present, and by me. When we focus on waste, which is 1% of all waste in Iceland, and when we focus on emissions of 31.74% of all emissions in Iceland, but we don't watch the big movie, it's virtual to my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u78	A respectable president. I'll go under with the plastic bag rule. A village pointed out plastics that were much more intimate to forbid, a plastic that is unrecyclable. Surely it should have been the first action and the most obvious. However, it was an operation and, in some respects, a symbolic operation and, thus, virtualness. I'll agree with that. I don't think I'm an expert on the word "important." I used it inaccurate conversation the other day. I saw how that word could work from outside, but I didn't think it was the best. A prime minister would be putting forth a matter from that point of view. I apologized for using that word for that occasion. I just wanted to say again, "I'm not involved" or "involuntary." Paint ain't gonna say nothing. No one can be reproached for not participating in his previous siege. ... aboutthings. If so, you may begin to review all kinds of matters and say: "Your party did not participate in this discussion, and you have no interest in it, and as a result, you are miserable and something like that. Of course it's not like that. It's the first round. on matters, there are yet to be acts on committees that deepen your understanding of matters. You may be able to say something about it if people do not participate in future cases. but maybe not either. If we do not participate in discussions, we can simply, despite everything, be supportive, finish it as soon as possible without being in the middle of some kind of speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u79	Mr. President. I don't have much more to say than what I'm going to do to correct a problem. A senator. I wasn't scolding anybody. I respect it for what. Senator that he obviously hasn't heard me scolding people. It wasn't far from me being ashamed of anyone, I simply expressed surprise that those who give themselves over to be more environmentalists than others were at the discussion. It may well be that I am insensitive and rude. Of course, I'll wait for another envelope. Because then we'll expect more men to come to our homes. I'll have hope in my heart with what I want. A senator says so. But most of all, it was just a surprise to me because it's, to my knowledge, a suggestion that comes directly to a particular problem. There are not so many suggestions that we have seen in the environment at the council, that I feel that, as I pointed out in my speech earlier, there are some problems to try to solve them. I think we could do much better and, as I pointed out, in my speech earlier. It is the joy that was expressed here in the past by a fine senator who has now left the hall, that he has sent a memo asking for an assessment of all these matters. I don't know if he did it in person or on behalf of the Party, but it doesn't matter. If the product enters the council and becomes useful, it's natural, for we can do nothing about making serious application of environmental problems instead of catching something that is temporary and comfortable, as one says. It's just too much of a thing to say, as I pointed out in my speech earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u80	Mr. President. I thank them. Councilmen who have discussed this matter, i.e. A proposal to conclude that a minister will be assigned to investigate the practicality of high-tech garbage dumps. I think all members of the council who brought up the matter have agreed that we must certainly clean up on these matters. Hv. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson said that he was not opposed to the proposal itself, and it actually works out as he himself suggested, that this should be investigated in the institutions of the Environment Ministry. It's a good and blessed thing, but I'd like to point out, in the context of the recommendation, that this proposal was also proposed last year, at the last council. If that's what I'm talking about. A senator would have enjoyed the proposal last year if we were further up with this good matter, which he did not have in his own heart. He should have helped her when she was submitted to the last assembly. Mr. President. It is certainly necessary, and hopefully we will become part of it, to recycle as much as possible waste and much more. It is possible and predictable that it can be done more by changing attitudes and technology in recycling, by better categories, and especially in product development so that products can be replaced by late or uninhabited products. This may be the hope that we can find material that replaces these products so late and pollutes so much, e.g. Many plastic products, that we can find something that will replace them, and that reduce the amount of waste. Whatever happens, this waste will fall in the future, but in the meantime it will also increase. It has been rising rapidly in the country over the past few years, both because of the increasing amount of waste and because of increasing population and increasing tourism. We're fighting on both fronts. The amount is as large as it has been seen here, 180,000 tons, which we grow each year, and then we are burning nearly 12,000 tons. Even if we increase recycling is also on the other side, there will be no matter how much we recycle and group much, there will always be some change that we need to get rid of, and we must do so in the most environmentally appropriate way we can, in the least possible way, eventually to the natural world, at least, and to the lowest of the waste. I will also talk about the past in my second speech. We've ruined waste in the last few decades around the world of comfy ground. Now I'm asking a minister where this waste is exactly to be found. Where? How much is there in each place? When was this done? Then there is the danger of this waste: What material is there? Is that dangerous? Do we need to take steps to stop it forever in its place? Of course, this is a serious matter, and I'm coming back to this: we can't be known for continuing this. We cannot be known for continuing to grow 200,000 tons a year. How much cod did we catch last year? This is close to being a similar amount, all the cod of the Icelanders. We're growling just as much garbage in the ground. I heard why. All members of the council here would agree that this was a problem that needed to be solved. Of course, humans may not be convinced that this will be practical, and then how practical it will be, and how expensive it will be, etc., and if it is better to do things differently. But we have to take this fight. We have to do this poll and look for ways to take care of our own garbage. As for the price of taxation at the end, Mr. President, it is estimated to be 15 K. per kilogram three times the rate in the reference countries in Europe, three times that rate. A question mark is involved. With whom, so to speak? Who's gonna pay for this? Of course, people and businesses are affected. Where does this tax come from? Maybe that's the main thing. Is this another tax in the state fund? I would have thought that if you are going to set environmental taxes, the objective will be to establish, whether it has an impact, a environmental impact to reduce pollution, etc. And that which of these also shall come to pass, and that shall run no more. I have reason to believe that such environmental taxes have, if any, to put them on, of course to resolve the problems we face, such as. The garbage problem, just what we're talking about, is to set them up as well as a massive waste disposal plant that burns waste in the most environmentally acceptable way possible. To that end, I thank you for this discussion and suggest that the case be referred to. The environment and transport committees, and that they will be discussed in a grammatical way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u81	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize a Minister's Qualification Act, which pertains to information ministers. The bill is just two articles. 1st par. It reads: We're at 10. The law adds to a new letter, as follows: if it misdirected or misleading information or secret information that has a significant significance in the handling of a case in the General Assembly. And then there's only 2. which says that this law already comes into effect. The contents of the bill, therefore, include responsible Ministers to the General if they are misdisputed, misleading information to members of Parliament and Congress, or secret information important to the management of matters at the General Assembly. Similar primes have been submitted before, this last year at both the 148th and the 149th legislature. The bill is reassigned as part of strengthening the Senate and the follow-up role of the Council with the Commission. The Minister's Court is setting up since 1963 and has not been changed since that time. They include the responsibility of the minister of the administration and the responsibilities of a minister. The principle is that this should be done if a minister has either deliberately or willfully acted in discriminately against the republic's constitution, other laws of the land, or otherwise placed the interests of the State at anticipated risk. The Minister's Act does not specifically address responsible ministers for information giving to the Generals. Article 54, par. The Constitution guarantees members of Congress the right to request information from advisers. The law has been thought to include the right of senators to inquire and report requests. However, this does not include a general minister of information and truth to the General Assembly. One of the evidence given by the World Council of Parliament on the conduct and cause of the fall of Icelandic banks in 2008 was that the Council had not been able to fulfill its role with the executives of the European Commission in a powerful way. This led to a panel committee that discussed the report. Increasing the independence of the council from the Commission, including the Council, was emphasized. proposed that the General Assembly Act, the Minister's Guarantee Act, and the National Court of Justice be reviewed under the guidance of these laws. As a result of a review of the Parliamentary Act, the surveillance role of the General with the Commission was greatly strengthened, as IV did. their chapter. It is, in fact, there. It should be noted that a minister should submit the information available to him and should have significant significance for the interpretation of a case for treatment. This obligation is to respond to inquiry from the generals, special discussions, reporting, Senate coverage and the initiative consideration of the Council Committee, whether the information offering is initiative taken by the secretary or at the council request. However, the European Parliament's legislation does not stipulate the consequences of disregarding the information duties. It will not be discussed specifically about a general minister of truth for information to the Generals regardless of whether information is of significant importance to the Council Assessment's assessment of a case in case of treatment. In accordance with the principle of legal penalties, compare 1st. Sixty-niner. The Constitution, it is considered proper for the movemen to make clear that the Minister's Court of Ministers takes on information to the Generals and violates the obligation to protect the law set out there. Is it suggested that a minister's responsibility be formed if he provides misinformation or misleading information to the General and if he conceals information that is significant in the handling of a matter at the General Assembly. The regulations presented in the bill are comparable to the regulations of a Danish law on rights. In Norway, the general obligation of a minister to provide information that could be relevant to matters has been made to the Minister's responsibilities in 1932 and to neglect this obligation to be punished up to five years but to two in the event of inaction. In 2007 there was a general minister of information to the Council and its institutions, i.e. The head of state accountant and agent of the Grand Parliament recorded at 82rd. the Constitution and the criminal responsibility made clearer in the Minister's Accountability Act. The responsibility of a minister includes false and misleading information in any form for the council and its institutions, but the government's responsibility for information given to the council is limited to matters established by the government at the council. In order for the General to be able to keep his watch, it is necessary that the information provided by the Ministers be sufficient, correct, and clear. In addition, it is fundamental premise that members of Parliament can fulfill their duties according to a constitution to get the proper information to base their decision making on. The results of the Work Group on Morality of the Report of the World Commission on the collapse of the bank emphasized the importance of informed exchanges and the arguments for the increase the Senate's maintenance of the Commission to the Commission. The key element of informed discussion is accurate and clear information. In that case, lack of information can lead to confidentiality between Congress and Minister. To emphasize the importance of an information minister to the General Assembly, this bill is suggested to violate it, in the form of false or misleading information or in the classified information that is relevant to the handling of a case, to protect guidelines according to the general conditions of the law on the rights of the Minister. Mr. President. My importers on this bill are all why. Councilmen of the Union and members of the Piranha, the Archipelago, and the Gang of the People. I propose that the bill go, following this discussion, to the management and monitoring committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u82	A respectable president. There is much about this matter that is absolutely necessary but is at the same time. There is, however, a tremendous need to have it clearer than it is. We are told that when it comes to the family of ministers of truth, they are compromised. It is reported that ministers are slow to deliver bad information that would be needed by members of the Parliament to make informed decisions. An example of this is the national court case. Another example is the understanding of a report of national property in taxes. There is also an example of a housing report. For example, consider a few examples. In addition, reply to written queries is being made by late and finally. The duration of reply is now quite long, and it is not enough for a long answer: At last, when you get an answer, it is not even an answer to a question asked but some kind of skiing style in your costume, so you need to ask again and accurately. Some letters are being answered, and others are not so well answered. Although I believe that in the current Ministerial Responsibilities law it is absolutely clear that a minister should clearly separate and provide information in advance, it is absolutely necessary to obtain experience, that this is simply addressed to the minister. That there is no need to read that this is true and clearly means that a minister has to tell the truth and return information at the proper time. Rather, it is simply a minister's signature.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u83	A respectable president. It's a small and light bill of changing Iceland's foreign service law, no. 39/1971, which is suggested 2nd paragraph 2. 14th par. The law will pass away. This bill has been submitted twice before by the Council of Bjart, who proposed the matter at the last 145th legislation. It was reassigned to a 149th legislature by the same transporter today, but it was not granted them. This is now submitted in view of the importance of public employment advertised and that the recruitment process is characterised by transparency and equality. Code 2 2 of the hearings. 14th par. Act on Iceland's foreign service allows an exception from principle 7. Relations on the Rights and Duty of the State, No. 70/1996, of the obligation to advertise the state's vacancies in the case of the order of the Ministry and the ambassador's work in the foreign service. At the same time, such exceptions do not require the public access to information on the names and job names of candidates as applicable for public jobs. The legislation on the rights and responsibilities of the State on advertising is based on the equality guidelines for granting anyone interested in it an opportunity to apply for a public position. Public advertisements allow interested persons to submit their applications to meet the standard conditions for the position. The rule then depends on a view that by this method it will be better for the State to have the means to be like most skilled and qualified candidates at or in position. The obligation to inform the public about an official job if requested is based on a perspective on transparency in the treatment of official power. It is important that the common people be able to provide an executive with a view to the above views of equality and ability when he uses it in behalf of the common people and in his behalf. If the bill is legal, the general authority's authority's general authority's authority's authority's permission to set objective conditions for candidates' qualifications, in terms of the nature of their jobs and their responsibility, would be appropriate, as for other public jobs. Transparency requirements will then include keeping these views from being actually based on the order of the person In this country, the authority to appoint the ambassador and secretary of the Ministry of State is political and in the hands of a foreign minister at any given time. There are no clear criteria that should be proposed and that the command procedure is opaque. For other northern nations, this is different. In Denmark, Norway and Finland, it is not customary for individuals who are not already employed in the foreign service to be assigned to the post of an ambassador without the publication of the vacancy for application. Generally, the vacancy of the ambassador's position is advertised within the foreign service so that its employees can afford to apply. The decision of an order is then made on the basis of professional assessment of the rights, performance and performance of candidates, even after the proposal for a government, monarch, or president. Is it clear, then, that such decisions are far clearer than they are here? The views behind the obligation to advertise public jobs and to publish information about candidates should be considered very relevant to the well-being of public administration, equality and transparency in the management of public power. Thus, this is a very important public interest issue that is relevant to those in positions of foreign service and in the past. The ambassadors and secretary of the Ministry of State do a very important work and work for the people, so it is very important that the selection of these jobs is based on ability and equality. Then it is important that the course of action be beneficial and beyond doubt and suspicion as far as possible. Is this factor in increasing transparency and maintenance in these materials. It can be assumed that those who have served in the foreign service for years will already have the qualifications and experience needed to handle the duties of ambassador and Ministry. As with other advisers, the transfer of such parties without advertising will apply to the general government rules on the transfer between government offices, such as those found in the case of other government agencies, as is the case with Article 36. Relations on the Rights and Duty of Public Workers, No. 70/1996. However, in the application of this source, a minister is under no circumstances obliged to consider the qualifications of those appointed in relation to the needs of foreign services and other objective and legitimate reasons to take care of in the recruitment and order of public jobs and positions. The subject of this bill is a tiny conversation that took place on a bar next to the General Assembly. So it was clearly identified as what kind of system these positions were. I made a brief count on the address of the Ministry of State, which covers who are the present ambassadors in the other countries and those countries. Some serve as ambassadors' positions in many lands, but the exchange is about 84% of the countries I considered to be ambassadors of men, and in 16% of cases women are ambassadors. It works in this context too. Finally, I would like to reflect on it only as a respectable president only earlier, if it was to be some sort of a measure of participation. This bill was sent to all members of the Parliament and members of Congress, but only the members of Pirata are its carriers. Of course, it does not indicate the interest of members of Congress, whether they support this or not, but it was at least a sign that no one else wanted to be a cosmian, as it would clearly reveal who are transporters than I is, Halldóra Mogensen, the Helgi Gunnarsson, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Smári Mccarthy and Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Avjörnótir. Now I'm simply suggesting that we get on with it. This is a very simple, small, adjustment in the current application procedure. It does not take huge changes to reach the goals of this bill. There is no such thing. You don't have to add anything or do anything very complicated to reach the end of the bill, so I suggest that this thing fly through a committee and through a 2nd and 3rd. ... thengetout.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u84	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the change in agricultural products, and equipment laws (projection Committee, substitution of competitive legislation, price balance charges). I'd like to draw out that we're reimporting this bill, but it's been transferred to a 149th legislature, 17th matter. Then, on October 25, 2018, the bill went to the trade committee. I'm just going to go over it later when I've considered the key goals and purposes of the bill, how different it is that the matter does not get at least magazines from a committee so that we can take a stand for it here at the council. But okay. The review of the Contestant Commission even showed up. until the bill was aimed at promoting agriculture competition and granting farmers freedom to have a choice of their products. This would lead to an increase in competition in the processing, total sales and retail markets. It also points out that innovation and competition are compatible, and they cannot be apart from each other. The objective of the bill is clear, to increase the freedom and autonomy of the manufacturer's products for the marketing of their products on national and national markets. This includes some. to eliminate a special agricultural policy that applies to the milk industry and to reduce the share of the government's prices, production and processing. In the current law, farmers have a special position that will be compared most to the status of employees in the service of their products and the public. To help improve the quality of farmers, a rule must be made that enables farmers to work and market their own products. In this way farmers will be able to work as professional drivers and enjoy the benefits of opening their farms to open markets. The bill of this is therefore suggested to put in place the European Commission and the European Commission of Farmer Treaties and thus contribute to the equality of farmers on the market and to the level of prices in accordance with the general market law, something that no individual or company should be afraid of. It is also suggested that authority be canceled to make predetermined manufacturing requirements for products or for individual production products. Furthermore, a respectable president is suggested to cancel the warrants of decommissionation at 71ndreg. agricultural negotiations to negotiate between prices for milk production and dairy products. The law of No. 85/2004, the change in production, prices and sale laws. At that time, economic problems consisted of most areas of agriculture, largely due to adverse business modules and legalities, the products and the milk industry, in order to balance national facilities for individual agricultural facilities and distances from the largest markets. The number of new products in the milk industry has declined, and for the past 15 years, much economic resources have taken place in the agricultural industry. To ensure competition for milk markets and thus contribute to innovation and product development, it is necessary to ensure access to the raw milk/unbound milk in free language. There are many opinions of the Contestance Board because of the application and interpretation of them, as well as the opinion of others of the Council of Business. This bill suggests the removal of a large supply of competitive law by special regulations. If the bill is legalized, the key causes of conflict that have existed as a result of the application and interpretation of exceptions from competitive legislation in the agricultural industry are being solved. With the bill, a general principle of competition is being held throughout the whole milk market, removing all special rules for the great. Then it is suggested that warrant be removed for price balance according to Article 85. A cubby in accordance with the decision of the Ministers of the International Business Agency in December 2015 to cancel exports. The bill is based on current laws and regulations in the neighboring countries of Iceland. In Iceland's commitment log that the GATT agreement allows for Iceland's commitment to provide services from Member States of the International Business Agency with access to their market. It also stipulates commitments in Iceland to avoid having rules that include discrimination, which is in the interests of national service providers. The results of the World Health Organization Ministerial Conference in December 2015 include a political commitment to cancel the export. The decision does not include a legal commitment, but if the decision is not addressed, it is likely that it will be impossible to meet up for the confirmation of the necessary and formal changes in the agricultural agreements. Is it suggested in the bill that the provision for export reform in the form of balance fees will be removed? A respectable president. The bill is divided into two chapters, one changing the requirements of agricultural laws and the other. Section I of the bill suggests changes in the purpose of agricultural agriculture, where the importance of free farming competition is sharpened. The chapter also recommends that producers make a personal arrangement for making contracts on the grounds of the law, but they are allowed either to assign national groups of Iceland to take their lead or to establish other organizations for that purpose. It will also remove the law's law that treaties should be binding on the producers whether they are partners in Iceland's Farms Association or stand outside, and instead that treaties on the basis of the law are only binding for those producers who consider to be party to each contract. Then there are some phrases aimed at balanceing the position of all the suppliers, whether they belong to Iceland's National Association or other organizations, or simply outside the organization. Then, too, all the regulations on the prices panels and the implementation committees of domestic contracts, which are in part for a child of their time, are removed. The purpose of this is to reduce the central control of prices and increase the independence of farmers as the market manufacturer. Achieving the prices of farms will also help to make the agricultural growth system more productive. Along with the change, it is also appropriate to establish bones that strengthen farms, contributing to the growth of innovation and better use of land and quality. Il. section of the bill is suggested that the implementation of the European Commission contracts shall be removed and submitted to changes that reduce the effectiveness of Iceland's National Farmer Association as representative of the manufacturers for negotiations and negotiations with the State. 14th degree. The bill also stipulates the growth of agricultural support and the State Fund for environmental protection, innovation, forestry, sealing of forward operating operations, the development of microindustries and tourism. If the bill of the law goes on to begin working together, the Farming Fund and the AVS will raise the value of marine resources to a common and powerful source of food. Such a change would result in saving government costs, some 30 million. K. at least Two years ago, which could be used directly for innovation in the food sector, especially in the innovations of farmers. The recent changes are extensive, but in the opinion of the carriers of the bill, they are expected to improve the interests of Icelandic farmers and contribute to healthy market competition, farmers, and consumers, of course, for the benefit of all. It is up to a fundamental prince to press on to promote greater interests in the public. They are facing a change of reality. It may be that the present environment has been justified and justified, but it is no longer true. Change in society, other demands, environmental requirements, climate requirements, better land and quality - everything encourages us to contribute to a new level of growth in farmers. Not to maintain a certain monopoly structure for milk markets. It is totally out - of - date. Of course, it is worth considering, Mr. President, that we received this matter into a professional committee in the last fall, on October 25, as I mentioned earlier. There was no will to discuss the matter, let alone that it would enter the council for release. There's something we need to do more often, to get a case here for release. Then it's just like that, like it happened. In spring, a matter of Congress from us at Reunion of putting down the Human Name Committee was canceled. Here, members of the Independence Party, are very happy to have passed the Human Committee. But I think it's good enough that there are some viewpoints. Although I weep for not having received the bill, it also brings out a certain political vision, political lines. I would have wanted this case so that to form members of the Independence Party would have the opportunity to demonstrate by their actions that they support the market's competitiveness, that they support that there is no monopoly in Iceland in the 21st century, even if someone might justify it in the first half of the 20th century. But not in the 21st century, and not in accordance with the method of creating national meetings for the same party. You had this experience with a professional and innovation committee that it was more likely to be building fences on the side of the government groups, building walls, and trying to find ways like, for example. For the special cheeses that were further added to barriers, it's more about not opening the market. Of course, it is indistinguishable to consider what basic princely affection should be for the Independence Party. I'd also like to draw two more things. Hv. paritaprevir Inga Sæland smiles beautifully. I get it. I'd like to present the EU Convention's specific advantages and defects. We've considered the benefits and flaws of the EEA Convention and, in particular, the facts about what it has brought, the facts of its positive consequences. 25 years ago, an Icelandic community. He's increased competition, increased innovation, supported with the sceptre structure here at home, and supported with a sceptre company, opening something that would otherwise have led to a halt, as says one. In a good report on the EEA contract that was submitted earlier this week, we spoke on the Foreign Affairs Committee yesterday. So it is interesting to see areas that are not under the EEA Convention. What, then, will the government do? What do the Icelandic political parties do, the old one? They maintain natural principles in which the maintenance of the EEA agreement is not available for market openings, of freedom. Then it is as if the man was recommended by a restraining order, a monoistic system, a separate system being maintained. This and the milk industry are a fine example of what the EEA contract is important to us, because if it is not supported by it, it does not promote general rules of competition. What a fine example of this! Regarding the concerns that have taken place on the part of farmers, I would especially like to note that I am convinced that wherever the general rules of competitive countries, where the market can enjoy themselves, things bloom. That's when innovation comes, then all sorts of ideas come forth, creation, sceptical companies. This is especially evident in the agricultural community. We'll see what's happening, including... for vegetarians, who may have the greatest freedom and the greatest competition. That's where the greatest innovation is. Vegetables have blossomed and have taken a course of action. Five or ten years under vegan farmers. This is a fine example of how we Icelanders may react when it comes to competition and open markets. The hardware deal is about 16 billion, maybe 18 billion, I can't remember the latest numbers on the budget bill. With indirect and direct support, i.e. Custom protection and other factors, may be some 35 billion agricultural sources. We're counting, and I'd like to think about putting that strength straight to prayer, but against it, we'll have to decommissioned all customs and all special rules taken from the fact that this strength, i.e. 35 billion direct and indirect strengthen today, entering a farm contract with land use requirements. This does not lead to the production catalyst. Rather, farmers have their own choice of how to use the land. We trust no one better than farmers to wear such things. I think it's an exciting thought, and I hope the Bavour Society and various farmers don't rise up on their backs and say no. Why don't we take a look at this? We'd like to back up and strengthen farmers. I believe that by the suggestions we're discussing here and also by going into the hierarchy and changing the funding system against the opening of the arrangement and toll protection of the wastes and by strengthening directly to farmers, we would have provided a basis for which I think it would be worth discussing the future, of innovation, of just the possibility of life, and of a longer period of prayer. Of course, that is not the subject of another discussion. In fact, this matter is quite simple. We're taking off specifics on agriculture. The suggestion is to promote the attracting of public interests to a dairy market, such as anywhere else in the community, that such rules should apply, to the general rules of competitive legislation above the particular rules of farming.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u85	V.E.G. President. Of course, I can agree that the general rules of competition should apply everywhere, including The state radio station, but I know why. A senator is not interested in that. Just some places. I can say, however, that it is not so simple to say that the farm is open and should compete with the subsidized agricultural products from the EU. What customs have not the EU to underdeveloped countries that produce the same products much inexpensive? Of course, they just put them on customs. I'm ready to take a look at this. The system now has nothing to do with people all the time. The only requirement that I make is that there is an equal basis for the other producers. Defeatting tolls. What does that mean? In other words, in this harsh country, there is no competitiveness, nor will it ever be. It takes certain amounts to maintain food production here, but this does not mean that there is always a need to be exactly what is now. I place great interest in land and country that there are farmers here who aren't just growing food, they keep this country alive, they keep the Earth alive. It's so important in all the deserts where landowners live. It's an enormous environment that we have farms here. There's a lot to think about, but I can totally agree that there's nothing to be done with this system. The only requirement I make is that there is a just system to compete with others.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u86	Mr. President. I think we're gonna do what. A senator does not disagree. It costs to have agriculture. It's as if they don't want to hear it, because it's not right for their reality, that we in Reunion have repeatedly emphasized that we want to strengthen and support Icelandic agricultural production, but as it is built up today it is not righteous, not righteous toward farmers and not righteous with consumers. I believe in the market to support and promote farmers and consumers. Farming costs. That is why we have ideas of taking the indirect strength of customs and putting them directly to farmers. It is an incredible opportunity, not just in agricultural production for farmers, but at this time when we need individuals and people to cultivate the land, to use it, to cultivate it, including. ... becauseofcarbontransmission. It may well be that we soon see some form of carbon farmers that may build up carbon dioxide for their own good and for the sake of society. We are entering a completely different reality, and we must be ready for it. Then we can't say, "Unified system is what must be here for eternity." It is extremely important that we agree to support Icelandic agricultural production, which needs support for farmers, consumers, and the environment. For the State Radio, the senator is not talking to the right person. I don't know how many times I suggested it to the Independence Party in my day that we had to somehow limit the arrival of the State Radio to advertising. I repeatedly pointed out that we should look to Germany because we never need a variety of news media. But that doesn't mean I'm coming on the road with a bang. A senator trying to trace the state radio.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u87	V.E.G. President. It's not a matter of shaving down The Kingdom Radio. I'm just talking about not getting money from taxpayers in a competitive job. How can we say that RUSH is not to be in a competitive market? There's a role that others don't do. But I don't have a discussion here. I would have chosen to. A senator would tell other countries, e.g. In the European Union, that it is far better to give up our customs protection and to do this simply with the strength of our bones. But no one does. Everyone has a customs protection, and no toll protection, and direct payment and subsidies, and all of this. I'd like that to happen. A senator would go to Brussels and conduct this talk there and see what was to be said. But okay, I'm not gonna make any maus out of this. I can say with what. A senator who is prepared to examine all ways to promote and improve the use of Icelandic agriculture. Much has been done for the last year and years. I'm ready to continue. Farmers need to adjust. They have more options with normal agricultural practices, forestry, etc. I think we're totally in the same place. I'm not saying that it's all impossible and all bullshit, not at all. I'd like to join a group of people with what they need. A senator and an effort to find practical solutions to the growth of agriculture, making this more targeted and competitive. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u88	Mr. President. I'm going to the senator's word. It is a fine suggestion to work on promoting Icelandic agriculture, making it with new criteria from a new reality that we face. I am convinced that the peasant class will play a key role in this for us Icelanders so that we can simply face the future, whether it is food or anything else in the air.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u89	The key class in society.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u90	Yeah, top class in the community, I agree. At the same time, I noticed that I missed it. A senator would not agree with me in this matter of violating competitive rules in the milk industry. It has nothing to do with customs protection. With the exception of an exception from competitive agriculture rules. That's what this is all about. We could start with that, it would be a huge step to put all agricultural production within the country under the same competitive hat. I think it's the right and worthy step we should take during this terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u91	A respectable president. We'd like to check the legislation and try to improve it. Hv. paritaprevir Hermaphs, Níelsson's son, now taught me that, for example. not long ago, it was now holes in some places, and it may be able to save a little bit of money and move to the right. The bill I recommend here, and now it's about a change in the law on the payment of state funds on penalties for criminal tolerance, No. 69/1995. In other words, we're talking about raising the benefits, and they haven't changed since 2012, as goes on later. With me on the bill is why. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson. In 1st. The bill we want to make the following modifications to 2 mg. 7. The law that deals with the responsibility of state funds on the convicted or incursion of crime prevention: instead of $250,000. in the currently existing a-team, 400,000 came in. Here we are talking about damage to objects. The B team replaces 5 million. K. Eight million. K. and here we're talking about body damage. In the C, it's 6 million. K. Instead of 3 million. A.K., due to a mistake. 4 million, instead of 2.5 million. K., for the loss of candidates, and instead of 1.5 million. K. In the E team, we'll have 2.5 billion. At least, for funeral expenses. 2.g. It reads: I'll be right back. The law's coming up with a new article, as follows: Fundamental values recorded in 7th C.E. changes should be made annually according to the development of a remuneration number, although it will never increase less or less than the price of the consumer price. Section 3. The bill is: It already goes into effect. The first annual change in the amount of money to improve the development of a pay card number from the month when the law will go into force until the next year. A respectable president. This case was given at a 149th legion, 892th case, but it was not granted. Now it's re moved unchanged. Credits as state funds guarantee on the basis of a law on the payment of state funds for crime benefits are limited to 2 mg. 7. The law. The amount laid down there has remained unchanged since 2012, which has been said for seven full years. Since then, prices change as well as penal improvements have developed according to these prices. There is a problem with existing legislation that these sums do not develop in accordance with prices. Last modified in June 2012, the pay sheet was based on the 1989 website of Iceland's Habitat for 433.1 points, which is now 675.3 points. If so, it is not likely that she will be able to increase significantly in the future. For the above reasons, a donation is suggested according to 2 mg. 7. Up. I'd say that when we're talking about issues such as failures, losses, and compensations paid by a government fund to meet those who have suffered several losses, it's gotta be kind of handmade not to let the benefits go along with the index development or pay development. There is reason to increase the amount of c-axis over a relative increase in other joints. The impact of crime on life and its well - being can always be seen better. Such effects are difficult to assess based on medical guidelines. Although weighing the physical effects of fractures, it is harder to evaluate spiritual effects, and these can often occur or worsen long after the fracture is performed. Therefore, it is important to increase responsibility for improvement over the rise of other sides. If so, it may not be necessary to encourage courts to determine a higher degree of reform for more serious cases than has been practiced. It is also suggested that, according to 2 mg, the amount of money be permanently increased. 7. Annually according to changes in remuneration rates. As per 1 mg, the requirement for improvement should also be minimal. 7. g., according to changes in the pay number. It is natural to change the amount of money at the end of each year. We all know it's natural, that's exactly what the state usually brings up everything and increases its booze and electricity, just name it, it's all critical, and it's all going up on January 1, even now it's up to public security people about a total of 3.5%, isn't it? paritaprevir Guðmundur Igngi Kristinsson? That's one of the things you think are heavier than your tears are about to go along with that indexal evolution. But it is not to be asked for more, a respectable president, with this change in the bill but exactly that each year this should be considered because it is just the nature of the matter. It seems reasonable and should probably have been in law from the beginning. It's just another thing I think it's kind of weird. It is only natural that the amount of money should be changed at the end of the year. The first annual change in the development of a pay number should be made from the month when the law went into effect. Since the pay number may be reduced if the economy is unexpectedly deteriorating, it may be suggested that the index price will be adjusted if it has increased or decreased over the previous year compared to the pay sheet. I hope we have some more discussion, and someone notices that it is being moved here because there are three of us in the room now along with a respectable president and assistant. It's a bit sad that we need 59 senators in the hall. But it's as it goes, there's a lot to take today, and many are at a conference in Harpa hopefully, the Arctic Circle and all that. The senator's work is certainly superior to that of the Honorable Assembly Hall. But I hope the matter comes back here at the council Hall, where it's an absolute fair and fair matter of mine, and I believe, according to the basic knowledge that I have of the law, it's normal to be changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u92	A respectable president. We're going to discuss a bill on a change in the law on the payment of state funds to pay for criminal tolerance, i.e. an increase in repairs. This bill is held by a group of people, and it is long time and perhaps especially because it is suggested a month before harassment, and sexual harassment, or violence, every 8th of November, which is stated after the right month. What are we discussing here in itself, and why do we want to change this system of things? It is a reform system that somehow makes up for the violence that people have suffered. As shown in the case of what? paritaprevir Sæland Happyland, we are raising benefits for damage and failure, losing initiative, and funeral expenses. This has not increased since 2012. What's really weird about this is that all the things that seem to be called paybacks in the state will be forgotten, some day they'll be improved, and they'll forget to update them and they'll just fall out. Whether it's a savings path, a thinking error, or something that's been forgotten in this case, I don't know. I'm completely incomprehensible because if we want and can figure it out and think we're creating some frame of repairing some damage, why should we add it to the exact amount in 2019 and in 2012? It doesn't make sense. If we are to make sure that the person receives the compensation he has, we can be sure that they are worth as much in 2019 as when the sum was determined in 2012. We can talk about various reform groups. It has, for example. much has been discussed on fair compensation. I believe they apply to this team of reforms. We're talking about people who have experienced extraordinary trials that have been violent, not just by adults, but by children. It's amazing that we're going to have these improvements so shamefully low. We're not talking about some huge sums in this context. We're talking about the loss of 8 million instead of 5 million people, the damage caused by an individual's feelings, perhaps disrupting his life to many years, since the damage is done, and even until the person is no longer in this world. We're talking about damages, instead of 3 million, they'll be 6 million. For funeral expenses and the loss of a candidate from 250,000 dollars. of 400,000. These are small amounts, relatively low, and they should in themselves be flying through because it is only fair that we will see to it that those who suffer such damage will be rewarded and even if they are shamefully low, they are surely important to many. We need to realize that violent people are affected. Of course, it's the worst thing you can do, and I'm talking there from my own experience, having a right and not getting it. You may be exposed to costs, and that cost may come to credits or pensions from a insurance institution, pensions are lost simply because the person is not entitled to a fair and just compensation. In a society like ours today, it just sucks. It is minimally necessary for the individual to come out on a plain and not to suffer financial damage from all manner of damage. We're creating a system that's supposed to make it better, but unfortunately, it's going very badly. Words such as compensation or improving something are like some bad language and secondary issue that does not have to follow any general increase. I hope the bill goes through and we see the fairness of raising these improvements of the pennies we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u93	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct the alteration of child protection laws in terms of illusion or limitation of association that will be legally recognized as a violation of a child's being taken away from another parent. A similar bill was presented to a Council of 146, but it was not granted because of the great opposition of many members of the council. It could be said that there was a filibuster to prevent this matter from being brought to the committee. It was returned to the 149th legislature by several adjustments to meet opposers of the bill and those who had doubts about it. It was then, first of all, that all the offenses against children were harmonized, the line of punishment for all serious offenses against children, so that we were in the same manner punished. Also, the value range of the bill was extended so that the law was no longer restricted to situations where law - abiding parents hinder or limit their associations but also resulted in barriers or limitation of association by the parent's presence, which, of course, is quite logical. Third, it was ordered that punishment could be in the hands of fines and prisons for up to five years and finally a lawsuit at Children's Protection. Then children's protection, whether there was an illusion, or not, would not be a guarantee that they are calling on people in the South to attack them. It is important that a case has been examined. The bill is to ensure that a child does not lose out on the quality of his or her child's best interests and that the illusion and limitability of association is an urgent violation of parental responsibility. It may be for someone what is known as an illusion or a limitation of association, but it is when a parent causes it in one way or another that the decision, judgment, judgment, or agreement of a person cannot be carried out. Key elements regarding the wrongdoing of a parent, whether of a law - at - home parent or of a caregiver, are the facts, a decision, a sentence that has been reviewed, and this has come to an end, but the legal head of a home or a caregiver does not depend on these decisions or judgments. It has come as a surprise - at least in the past - how much opposition has been experienced by many members of the Parliament who are attracted to either women's rights or to some form of feminism, as is called in a foreign country, who consider this to be a quest for women's rights, women's legal struggle. Then you experienced that these people viewed children as women's personal affairs. Of course, the community is very different, and both parents are doing much more to raise and care for children today. If the child is deprived of the possibility of associating with another parent, it may be devastating to the child. It must be classified as a violation of it, as are other acts of neglect against children that may be involved in various ways. It needs to be addressed. This does not mean that the police take children from homes. It's not like that. All of this is carefully examined, and people are given the opportunity to compromise. It may be that an option that would be used before some sort of charge is to change them only if the situation is that of the second parent to prevent it. All of this is completely normal. It would be only then if people were to grossly violate their responsibility and against their child to come to some charge. That would be a serious offense. A number of these cases are going on at any given time. The report quotes figures on the decision to make contact and contact with parents and how many requirements have been set out in 2007 and2016 on the use of day - to - day fines to force dating. There are 550 requirements for day-to-day application. It's 10 years. On the average, there are over 50 new cases a year, some of which are believed to be an illusion. This is a huge number of cases, and I believe that by means of a bill of this kind, the lawgiver makes a decision and says: "We're not going to let one parent interfere in this way with the child's other parent. I think it'll have a lot of preemptive value if the lawgiver approves of this kind of bill. It doesn't solve all matters, but we can't let this happen. Many have said that this bill is a means of making sure that violent people can socialize with their child. One parent says that the other is not violent. To say that the second parent would be a violent parent, parents who had the right to socialize might simply say the same thing: I do not return the child because the legal parent uses it to the child. Then we have entered some jungle law that is of no benefit to us. I think it's important that parents don't get away with this and the government is completely out of control. These matters must be handled simply, and I can be absolutely sure to those in the room that if a social parent would say, " I don't give the child back because the lawyer uses violence, the child would just be picked up. ' I'm totally aware that a parent in front of me wouldn't need to be able to help him, because a close-up parent could simply not give the child back. [[Is it not the same with...?]] No. A legal parent could certainly call the police and have the child picked up, just as it is not possible to rob children. There may be some who would go to the installation, but it would succeed. It didn't mean anything for the parent to say anything about the violence of the parent's home. It just doesn't work that way. It is important in this case that the lawgiver provides a clear signal that this kind of behavior will not be tolerated and that it is time for these fractions to be handled against children in a clear way. In fact, it is not later pleasant to do so than at this assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u94	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this bill. He talks about 50 new cases a year. What's the number of paints? Another thing I'd also like to know: The bill speaks of barriers to parents, but barriers to grandparents and relatives are also known. The difference in metal often goes far, usually involving parental divorce and strife. I've often wondered about the child's rights. In such cases, your child should always have the right to associate with both parents and grandparents. I'd like to know if there are statistics on how many instances of illusion comes from a mother and in how many instances from a father. As far as I can see, it is usually the mother who hinders the father and father's family that she should not have in her child's favor. Is there any statistical evidence on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u95	V.E.G. President. The figures I've been looking at are from 2007 to 2016. At that time, there were 550 demands on the use of day - to - day fines to force dating, while 107 regulations were given to make a date. The 400 cases may have ended with some reconciliation. We can see that there are clear differences and for various reasons. It is just that when the barrier to another parent is inhibited, it is directed against the grandparents and relatives on the other side, and dealing with them may be more complex. But this is a different matter for children. If an illusion begins when the baby is a baby, it will be much less effective, but much more is the connection between both parents and children at large. There's always some problem around here. Therefore, the definition is that there was a decision, a judgment, a judgment agreement, or a contract between parties, which is a key one - i.e. they are violating the decision of courts or governments, arguing that it is good for the child without any knowledge of it. They say: "The child has to enjoy the doubt, and then there's a long process going on. This is not acceptable, for everyone can say that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u96	Thank you. paritaprevir Brynjar's Níelsson for the answers. But what I would like to know is how many times we can understand that there is violence, both in which one parent uses the other violence and even the children as well. How is it separated from just using the child as a weapon for divorce or for other reasons? Is there a statistical difference in this? Is there a big difference? The difference between these two must be more difficult to deal with in the case of violence than with matters that merely involve divorce, and that makes the divorce very conflict, using and using the child for that purpose.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u97	V.E.G. President. I don't have any statistics about that. I don't think anybody really does. Divorce usually goes - not always, maybe most of the time, I don't know - not without shock. That's a lot of emotion. It's hot. Something's gone wrong. Of course, there may be hatred after that. The relationship between the ex - spouses can be difficult, and a child enters. It's just reality, and it's just a part of life. Look forward to doing it. However, in spite of anger, this obligation to the child will never go away despite any personal differences despite revenge, etc. People just have to sense it, even if you can quite understand their anger. The problem, however, is that the parent is not qualified to be with the child alone. For various reasons, violence may be involved or something. But there is no such thing. There's no violent career, there's no charges, there's nothing. That's just one of the parents'claims. The opposers of this bill have claimed that this is the only way it should be. No one lies such a thing, and the child is to benefit from the doubt. That's where we're in the jungle law. There is no rightful pleasure in such things. This right belongs to the child, it's being violated. If there is no evidence, no history of offenses, violence, or any neglect, the child must be allowed to associate with the other parent and be entitled to do so. There's a key in this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u98	Mr. President. I didn't intend on coming in answer to what happened. paritaprevir Brynjar the son of Níelsson in this matter. I was just going to let this discussion pass me by while I'm sitting in the side room. But it's just so tempting to come over a word. A senator that if a member of a responsible parent doesn't bring back a child from being with a legal guardian, the police will only come and get the child immediately. It's not reality today, and it hasn't been. [[Up front.]] It may have been ten years ago, but it has not been the last ten years. It seems that our government has decided that when parents argue with one another, it is not a neglect against a child. When parents are completely forbidden to sit down and make peace with each other, it becomes a real challenge that children have both been protected by police and decided not to act. It's just, unfortunately, today, and it's been the last decade. Of course, this is unacceptable. When there is no reason to limit association or to disassociate a child when there is no violence, no neglect, no dangerous situation at hand, such an attitude toward a child is nothing more than violence. But the government has decided to do this. There's nowhere in the law that it should be this way. I just wanted to tell you what. Senator on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u99	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this indication. In the past, if a person's parent did not return to a parent - it was just one parent who, either the parent had custody of the child - then nothing meant not to give the child back and point to some kind of violence, the child was picked up by the police because the child belongs here. No more than that I would meet the child downtown, and I would not give it back to my parents because they were violent and I was just going to have it. It doesn't happen that way. I find it strange if that's how it happens today. I'm a little bit numb out of this business and I think it's weird if it's like this. I hope the government will take care of itself. There is some conclusion, it is a judgment or a decree of custody, association, etc. We have to follow it. That doesn't mean just saying something. No charges, no police investigation, no nothing, they just say something. It's a jungle law. That's why it's a bill. These matters need to be addressed in some way so that people will be acting according to court decisions, depending on the government's conclusions. We cannot allow ourselves to ignore it and say: " See if you can get the baby from me. ' You will harm your baby if you try to get it and I don't want to return it. No, parents who hinder must have responsibility. As soon as we let the law show that they are to be responsible, these matters will be greatly reduced. I'm predicting 99%. Or 91%. Because normal people do not intend to be punished.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u100	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I don't know why. A member of the U.S. Senate recently became involved in media coverage. There was a father who has not been able to see his child for two or three years and has now received a final answer from Child Protection, which says: "We have nothing to tell you, my dear father, but we do not trust in trying to help you further. He has decided that he has the right to see the child and the child, and he has not been wronged. But children's protection gives it away, saying: We are so rigid in this regard that we do not trust in this matter. He's been on this case for two or three years, and nothing, nothing. But I have also had a case in which a human parent has shut up a child in his home and has not allowed him to go to school for weeks, and the child has not been allowed to meet the parent's home, having no time to spend, fearing that the law - abiding parent will pick up the child. [[And nothing happens?]] And what does child protection do? Nothing. I had to enter a penance case, had to go to court to get a confirmation that it could go and get the baby. So I say what. A member of Parliament: I understand his thought that this needs to be adjusted. But I think we should rather try to explain to the government that not acting is a violation of the child. The government is responsible for not responding to this crisis. They're supposed to put the chair in front of both parents and say: "If you can't make an agreement, we'll just step in.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u101	V.E.G. President. It's like speaking completely out of my mouth. I'm just really worried about that, okay? paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir, that we should agree so much. [[We have to stop meeting like this.]] We're becoming the hottest couple, as they say. Of course, it is completely intolerable that governments do not enforce decisions or judgments. At times, however, a person has come to decide to evaluate it, saying: "We are going to allow a parent who uses the illusion to continue it because intervention by someone could harm the child. We can't think like that, though. No one should get away with such violence, since everyone hesitating may have bad consequences. We have to give a clear message. I think that if the legislatator says, " We're not going to accept it. ' Then there is a little special that we need to ensure that governments carry out decisions. That's why I always wanted the Justice Department, not some senator, to have such a case, and it's going to take on a larger context, a serious review of the child's child's security system all together, to make sure that the management board is safe and good and right for the child's right. That's what I would've wanted. It hurts to have a bill like that on its own, I get it. But I had no other choice, there's nothing going on. That's the sad part. But we have to look at the matter, since these are, of course, or may be very serious. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u102	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Brynjar's Níelsson for bringing this bill back. It was moved in spring, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u103	And make up for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u104	And make up a little bit, and I understand exactly what he's doing. A senator says. I'm going to object, though, that mostly feminists or some mismatch who step on a deck to be negative. But I think, like a beard. The senators have spoken before me, that this is a major system problem. The biggest problem is a system problem. It's amazing. We watch how governments draw their feet. We see fathers who have even been convicted of abusing the four five - year - old girls, continue to abuse the next two daughters as well, and there is no intervention. This is known. We're looking up at something like that. I think those women who step forward and are completely against such barriers because it's violence against children - and I completely agree, it's violence against children to deny them to meet their other parent. I believe that this defense is an act of concern for the children because many of them have such difficulty and that they do not have enough powerful spokesmen to defend themselves when they are resorted to inexhaustible violence at times. Undeniably, this confusional disorder will turn to the fact that children are bleeding, which, in this case, are abused by a parent, to recover from an ex - spouse or the other parent. We would have to build a much bigger and stronger foundation and not only let our parents take responsibility for the illusions but also the governments, the administrations, those who really have to put their arms around their children and help them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u105	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to wonder or think about what people are like, etc. This bill is primarily designed to show that the legislators view the illusion of a child. There is no clear evidence in the legislation. There are other factors that show up in the child protection laws on neglect and violence, and I would have felt that this would be the case, but because they have clearly not been viewed by humans, they need a posetive law on this. I agree completely with that, and I think it is very likely that the government around it and the government may be at odds with this problem. I'm pretty sure. But I believe that when a bill like this becomes a law, it'll cut down a lot. The problem becomes smaller, smaller energy, time and money that go into this at the Children's Health and the health professionals around it. It's just gonna take a lot of stuff like that. Then people could take good care of the rest of their life. It's my hope because I believe the message is so important that people have shown it in other countries. If you look at Germany and there's some illusion, people are just on the wall, and a judge says, "If the illusion remains, you'll lose them." If it doesn't work and there's an illusion, it's just a responsibility. I think it's wise to put it into law to make sure that people don't use it as an option in other disputes or anger and hatred between people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u106	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before, and I know he's got a good mind and I'm sure I'll vote for this vote and stand by it. But the question is, though, that we are bringing all sorts of punishments and every sort of punishments, fines as they are now, and such things that are not done by them; there is no such thing as done. What guarantee do we have that there will be a change? There's nothing left to follow. There's no intervention. A parent who uses illusions has found himself able to say: " It's just that. And goes on, never pays a penny in daylight, never ever. So I'm not quite sure. Yes, it's a good first step, indeed. But I'm not so optimistic that this will undermine the illusion of perhaps 91% or whatever it is now. I wish I could. But this is done with a good mind and truly a good first step. Where, though, would the guarantee that the law would be followed and that the person would be given real responsibility? He's to be responsible. The use of violence in a child is a violation of the child, a total violation against the child, and a responsibility for the child. Like what? A senator says, the child should never be bitten if people are involved in some violent debates between themselves, just never.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u107	V.E.G. President. I'll agree with all of this. I'm just as worried as what. paritaprevir Sæland Goland, things don't necessarily work out in this kind of change if governments don't do their job. As soon as people realize that they will get away with violence, of course, this is useless. Still, I feel that this kind of message is likely to have an effect. I had it this way, in order to challenge people's doubts, to try to do this through child protection, so that people may not have unprovoked charges against police in all these disputes. Of course, this means that children's protection has a great deal of responsibility and responsibilities that these matters will resolve and end. A man has been worried about the project as it has been, i.e. a day's failure to pay, and the other parent may not want to take some form of money or collect because he does not want his child to go to the street. There's a lot of problems in this. I think as soon as we have these options, i.e. If a parent or law - care professional offends the child with an illusion, the risk of losing his or her position is that it only makes a big difference to the parents and they think twice before going into such an illusion, as is so common.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u108	A respectable president. I recommend a proposal for a interpretation of existing nature clinics. 103. The suggestion reads: The Council of Environment and Resource Ministers concludes to establish a staff to assess the experience of a natural room and to see if economic services are formally taking on more regional projects than they now have. The task force will be assigned to develop ways to strengthen the cooperation of nature clinics and institutions of the State in order to use funding for the level of knowledge and monitoring of the environment and to improve efficiency in cooperation with nature protection. I'm the first mover in the motion, but my partners are a w-w-w-ye. Senator Ingi Pétursson, Njáll Trausti Elíasdóttir, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Ginsótttir, Rafney Rapney Magnúsdóttir, Gunnarsdóttir Olnsinsdóttir, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Karl Hjaltason undina Albertína Friðbertsson, and Vilhjálmur of Árnason. This proposal was last made at a 149th legislature but was not granted. At that time, the Nine Environmental and Transport Committees received reviews and were all positive. The proposal is now reassigned with a small addition in a report on the order of a service group, including a new report. take into account indications from the Association of Nature Labs. The proposal was welcomed by all the managers and accepted their objective, along with providing helpful tips, which have been offered twice before, at the Council of 145 and 146. The suggestion may include: that there is a high level of natural and environmental activity in Iceland due to work on climate targets, increasing tourism and changes in land and resource efficiency. So it is important to review how capitalism is spent and how professional knowledge and financial resources can best be used in a modern society. Natural institutions play an important role under the laws of nature research and the implementation of nature protection in cooperation with the institutions of the Environment and Resources Office and rural areas. More than 40 years have passed since the first ideas about the natural institutions of the region and more than 20 years since the first living room began working. Ideas of the creation of a plant can be traced back to the 1970's, to a committee that produced proposals for the relationship between Iceland's Natural Institute for Nature and Nature Research. The ideas developed for more than 20 years until they became law No. 60/1992 of Iceland's Natural Institutes and Nature Services. Only to explain this with the Museums of Nature: These were pointing to museums, and some were actually very good, wide and wide around the country. Then, in 1995, the Eastern Institute of Nature was first formed a nature clinic, which was then formed in one by one and now eight. In the early years, the offices were operated by direct involvement in the State, which made one ruler. By a change of law in 2002, the State withdrew from direct involvement in the labs, but treaties for the State were made to them with the communities that own them and run them. The last business contracts were renewed at 2018/2019, and this year the contributions of the state to each office were 20.7 million, and the next year it is estimated to be 21.2 million. After 2002, a gradual decrease in the relationship between the environment and resource services was observed, although the debate was read from the period of the changes that were then planned not to reduce cooperation with the government institutions, but to explain the underlying responsibility. Now, as previously said, eight plant offices have worked, while in some parts of the country, they have built up an knowledge center that operates on natural resources supported by state and rural society. It is therefore suggested that in the work force, you will be able to see how working in the same part of the country can strengthen both activities. Also, it is appropriate to consider points from the Institute of Research at the University of Iceland in its review of the proposal for the Council of 145, but by permission of the president: However, there is even greater potential for the plant, research, and other work of knowledge in the country. More than that, they cooperate with each other. The Agency then points out that it is no less important to take full care of the research work in the country and say: To further develop cooperation, it needs to strengthen the members of the environment's knowledge systems, linking them with regional policies and governments'willingness to build up knowledge by different types of outlying areas. These points point to work that started around 2009 as to the assessment of national knowledge sites. That work came back in 2010, but no continuation of that work never took place. This very suggestion can be considered to be a continuation. It has been found that in addition to the legal role of the plant, they play the vital community role where their activities strengthen the infrastructure, increase the level of education, and increase knowledge of the communities where they work. Thus, the benefits of society are many. The lab operates people who are unlikely to be living in the country if these activities were not available. At such times, university students are often hired for summer jobs, which is what often lacks, an opportunity for summer careers for university students in the country. Under the government's backing, the plant of nature brings to a minimum 30% in return to the State's contribution. The plant is so active in building special fields of education that it strengthens and provides for its assigned tasks. In this way, they subsidize the country and increase financial activity in rural areas, where they work in business with service partners. As a result, there is a direct and indirect increase in exposure. Knowledge of nature also helps with community projects, such as rural society and sector structure, such as tourism, and other activities based on natural abuses in some way. They contribute to the sustainable use of natural resources. At the same time, knowledge and education are useful to the public and to the school, where natural processes benefit indirectly. The work of a nature clinic requires well - educated personnel, which is important in the pursuit of diverse and powerful society. The living room's work may attract people who, if they are involved in other tasks, will survive for a long time. In this way, the work works against a leak of wisdom from the country and strengthens effective regional policy. A diverse and powerful community is built on the work being done locally, as well as on the fact that people with different backgrounds and knowledge are present to carry out tasks that are listed for leisure purposes. Thus, the benefits of working for naturalists are many, although it may be difficult to appreciate the benefits of naturalists working in the parent society or attending a meeting. When given an assignment in a natural home, it is a ideal way to transport public work to the country. While monitoring and research are important national organisations, it may be more practical for projects to be carried out by regional institutions. Travel costs are reduced, unexpected situations can be handled in nature, and a wide range of projects can be integrated in the area. Thus, there is much strength in the geographical distribution of institutions responsible for the work of the Environment Ministry. The hide-and-reporting of activities at monitoring and research in Icelandic nature, such as in vegetation, bird life and nature protection, is therefore an effective means of ensuring a greater variety of jobs, spread across the country, and maximising the use of knowledge and capital resources. If there is a desire to delegate further work to the nature clinics, there are some ways to do this, such as by law or by special agreements with the Ministry or its subsidiary. As mentioned earlier, 2002 was changed by the law on living rooms, which greatly reduced the link between the Ministry of Environment and the Nature Organization. Happily, though, the relationship has increased again and is strengthened in the last two years. During a 2019 nature conference, the world's highest level came. Environmental Ministers admit that, now the base of the living room had been assured for the next year through recent contracts, although it could always be discussed whether the foundation was sufficient. The key point is that having a solid foundation is much easier to build on. Then, too, the Environment Minister came to realize that in this way natural agencies could take on certain activities that are relevant to monitoring and education and that cooperation would be initiated between Iceland's Natural Institute of Natural Health and the need for monitoring. I have found this to be true even though this proposal has been moved by the fourth time and has not been granted, it has already produced certain results. The words of the Minister and the fact that the Ministry of Environment and Resource has now begun a contract for the research and monitoring of the Western Natural Institute of Nature in one of the most invasive alien species in Iceland, in minutes. The objective of the contract is to collect and process scientific data on the memory of the land's natural environment, which may include: can be used to support the improved organization and the implementation of the mementos. This is where the Natural Institute puts an monitoring schedule for the memory stock in agreement with Iceland's Natural Institute and Environment. It is the key to success. In addition, there are contracts for eutrophication at the North Eastern Institute and the Western Museum, and other monitoring projects are considered. It is in this area that the energy of the plant can be most effective. In the years that follow, the budget for research and monitoring has been estimated to a greater degree than often before, and it is important to make the best use of the resources in the cooperation of the institutions that can best care for each project. This involves great opportunities for both environmental and resource services and rural areas to pause and evaluate the experiences obtained from the work over the last 20 years. A team with such a job might be considering whether it might be possible to formally take on more work or to continue to support cooperation, as has now been done in recent years. The establishments of the state of the same domain are mainly nature institutions, the EEA and the Weather Service but at the same time it may be wise for rural society to determine whether more rural areas should be involved in the living clinics and whether the increase in the contribution of rural society to the work could have a multiple effect in rural areas. It is important that those in the group asked to be assigned to a job of persons who know the details of the activities of a nature laboratory and research, so it is reasonable to include the work group. The representatives of the National Association of Nature, the Union of Iceland, and the University of Iceland. V.E.G. President. As I said before, there is a lot of dough in the efficiency of nature and nature and environmental protection in Iceland. Therefore, it is important to review these matters at this point, including Because of commitments to climate and changing land uses. Finally, I suggest that this proposal be followed by a Environment and Transport Commission.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-10-16.u109	Mr. President. There are eight of them, the parks of nature in the country, and no one goes to a den of wages there for both important and rewarding work. It is also important to maintain the geographic perspective around the plant because it attracts high - school employees who are in great need in so many communities. There is also research that contributes to what we call a balance between nature and nature protection, the foundation of the economy, as everyone knows. There are also climate issues, for some of the research that there is to benefit them directly. This arrangement suggests that it is a paradox understanding of its importance. There are ten parties from many categories, and the proposal and initiative are to be celebrated. Lionel Anna Sævarsdóttir. Today, the number of tasks of a natural room is to be increased, to strengthen its foundation, and to promote research in the country in general. This brings to mind the synopsis proposal. I can see that there is also an opportunity for the services of rural communities through a variety of information services and research that will benefit their activities. I hope that for a short period of time, the task force involved in the Senate resolution proposal will soon be dealt with by the first successful end of the case here at the General Assembly.
