ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u1	As answers are: Economic and economic Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Social Affairs and Children's Ministers, Travellers, Industrial and Neoplasmic Ministers, Fisheries and Agriculture Ministers, Foreign Ministers and Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u2	A respectable president. Recently, the National Association of Icelandic students was moved to fire a campaign to fight for improved students' ideals. The campaign's signature is the student's mustn't have it any better. Is it their opinion that college students are more favored than most other community groups? In the opening paragraph of the current law on the Icelandic loan fund, however, the role of the fund is linked to ensuring those who submit to the law the opportunity to study without regard to the economy. This noble aim has been the purpose of the fund since its establishment, the establishment of the labor movement, and other countries of the same policy to provide workers and other wealthy families with the right to pursue university education, thus increasing their capacity for social mobility. In recent years, this key role and the purpose of the fund have come under attack. For example, university students' movements have severely criticized the fund's forwarding criteria, its credit target, and the payment of loans, to name something. At the same time, there has been an ever - increasing demand for funds to change toward a norse funding system in which some loans fail at the end of study, such as those in neighboring lands. The last bill to a new overall layer of LIN is a evolutionary display from this core objective of the fund. It suggested that monthly funds, including those who do not need assistance from the government, be given to all. The cost of this was rolled over in the higher interest rates of the loans. The induction system to the Norwegian role model was designed to strengthen the position of those with the most support needed, but the idea had already been turned upside down. As we now have a review of the Icelandic loan fund, I would like to ask the highest degree. The Minister of Education a few questions related to this: 1st The full implementation of a single university student in his own house is nearly 193,000. Is there a basis for raising the fund's adulation criteria, based on minimum wage? 2. Will the credit rate for the loan workers at LIN raise so that the student's summer job does not reduce their pay? 3. Will the loan pay 100% of the student's calculated extensions after review? [[The president calls.]] Will there be changes in the budget and payment of loans so that banks will not be overstepped? Finally: Is it a requirement to extend loans to all students near the Norwegian funding system, where some loans fail after study?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u3	A respectable president. I thank you for this good question, and I'm glad to tell you about the good work we're working on now to revise the loan fund. I've had a very powerful project management, which is giving me very good suggestions, and I've also called up the most skilled loan experts in the country to create a new, powerful system. I can promise the General that we will get one of the best loans in the North countries. Hv. A senator asks if we should raise the trend. Yeah, she'll be up. Hv. A senator asks: Should I raise my holiday goal? Yeah, it'll be up. Are we going to 100%? Yes, we will. What we will receive - we want a progressive, powerful education system and it will certainly be on the watch of this Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u4	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of Education for the Answer. The educational progress is far below minimum wage, and most of the community's classes are now fighting for higher levels of money. It's a long time to make these changes, and I welcome the current work and thank you again for a good answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u5	A respectable president. How important it is that we succeed and that what we are doing is a good and broad solid harmony.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u6	Mr. President. It's going to be a year since I've asked a social and equal minister for sales of the best holdings of the apartment loans in the past ten years. There was a partial answer in May, three months later, which said that 3,600 apartments were sold at 57 billion dollars, while it also notes that the names of those who bought on the basis of personal protection could not be published. The person standing here contacted a Persian protection that did not oppose the publication of this list. A minister went to assist his housemen in order to get an acceptable answer from Peritoneal protection. He finally answered August/September and sent an answer to this office and sold a self-importation to the General on whether or not to publish the relevant information. So now, the Council is not a Minister's censorship or editorial, so the General of the Council sent this message back, asking for a real answer. Yesterday, just before the initial anniversary of the inquiry, an answer was made that there is no way for character protection to be considered for the information, yet it cannot be published. My questions to the highest. Ministers are these: Does he feel that the Ministry, or Minister of Justice, would take one year to answer a inquiry from the council and then not answer them? Does Ministers rule in terms of government sales? Is it normal for a minister to change Persian protection overnight into the State Information Administration office by putting it before her not to publish that answer? I want to hear it from the highest. Ministers because his conduct toward the council so bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u7	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. How happy we are that for the first time at that time, we can have a word exchange on this subject! I'm going to try to answer the questions as well as the questions. A senator will turn to me. First, it is normal management that the answer has been delayed. I'd like to encourage you. To read the answer I published yesterday and the communication we've had with Perlon protection, a member of Congress and a body of Congress because it is important that the personal protection laws be respected. There is no way to choose and refuse, and therefore the Ministry of Peronist has been consulted, which has now been able to provide information to the council, but the council itself must respond to whether they will be published publicly. Is it normal to be a secret state of government sales? No, it is not natural for a secret state to sell such possessions. As a result, a minister has directed the recommendations to the Substitute Bank that the information is widely publicized and that the Substitute Bank is seeking the identification of Percontinental Protection. It is also noted in the reply that last night's Substitute Fund must consult Peron Protection on whether it is permitted to publish the information. I'm aware that the Subcommittee Fund has requested that warrant from Perone Protection. So, about the third question, if a minister is using Persian protection for political purposes, I refer him to the Fathers. So we have a personal protection, and we have to respect it and so important that it be done. All that was available on behalf of the minister of the case was to receive information and confirmation from Peritoneal Protection that the information was permitted to be published. There is nothing else behind it and all the outback on the part of the senator to try to draw something else out in that matter completely judges himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u8	Mr. President. I would love to get tips on where I went off the top. Minister. But in that answer yesterday, It would be necessary to give a special opinion to the General for the official publication of the information, requested by the Parliament. The Agency's opinion on the public release of the information is not available, but it has been proposed that the secretary of the information will be published without delay by the Council. That's right. And now I'm asking for a representative of the General Assembly, I'm 1/63 of the Council, that this evidence will be delivered to me, and I'll certainly consider whether this information will be published in public. I expect a minister to mean what he says without a twist, he will try to see that this information will be sent to me at the General's mailbox in the morning so that I can begin to publish these data.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u9	A respectable president. Like I say, we're what. The senator agreed that it is important to publish these data. Therefore, the Minister has direct recommendations to the apartment loan fund on the publication of the data. The camp loan fund has sent words to the Perconte, I know where it is requested a warrant that all such information be published on the website of the Substitute Bank. The minister here cannot go in one way or another to interpret a personal protection law for political purposes. There is no choice or refuse. That's why we're working this way. I got it. I got it. In return, if there is any further need to consider the matter, to request a meeting on a relevant committee and to call all members, as the senator is urged to do in writing, until the conclusion is reached, hopefully in a short time, and then we can end it in a successful and successful manner. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u10	Madam President. I must admit that it has only upset me to see the people of Croatia sit here in this hall as if nothing ever happened, but we must continue. On June 20, 2018, an executive of the General Assembly concluded that the government's insurance agency has for years maintained a false legal interpretation of the social security laws and the EEA rules for conformity of social security systems. The protocol does not allow the Icelandic government to divide into the applicant's calculated residence period depending on the length of an insurance period between Iceland and the rest of the EEA when you do not have an improvement from the State. It will show that according to Article 4. 18th par. the social security legislation should be calculated all the years until the age of 67 to live in Iceland. It is, in fact, very clear that it is absolutely forbidden by the EEA Regulation and by the Icelandic law to calculate the period of residence in the amount of relative terms made. As a result, a large number of microenergy and rehabilitation personnel have had to live in an unsecured decrease on the part of the State. The Icelandic government has illegally reduced the largest income group in Iceland by many billions. The Ministry has subscribed to the interpretation of the U.S. Marshal's commission and now has the responsibility to correct this offense and to improve the number of microsurgents that have been exposed to these unsuccessors. Some of these individuals have had to live in bondage to poverty for many years through income that hardly reach the cost of food, any cost of housing, and everything else needed to live a decent life. The TR website shows that the decision is prior to the end of January and will then be changed. The next step will be to work on each matter. As a result, it can be concluded that the non-resurrection of habitats will be stopped at the end of the month. So I ask the highest. Minister: Can he confirm that the future change will be carried out at the end of a month, starting with a new calculation? If not, when? When will the disability pensioners be reimbursed for what has been illegal over the last few years and decades? Then there is a clear requirement from the microenergy pensioner stakeholders to pay back ten years. Will a minister do that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u11	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen for this good inquiry. We also had a good conversation, the Department of Social Affairs, and I'm the Social Affairs Minister on a welfare committee yesterday that covered this matter. I think it's kind of three-way how we have to deal with this situation. First, like the senator, older congregations have changed today, and third, we need to consider the legal situation and whether it is normal to make changes to the future in how we bring these matters in. As the senator quoted, this matter has been handled by an insurance agency and has been in good relations with us. Her deputies have even. Attending a meeting of welfare committees and having good relations with the Department of Social Affairs, where timelines are being developed, how these matters will be handled in the future. The result is not yet the end of January. As a result of the decision being made in this regard, I can now understand that in this regard four years, meetings with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Insurance, on the other hand, with a financial agency, are needed to work out plans for future management. This case, i.e. The implementation of a highly old insurance agency has been confirmed at all levels by committees of decision-making. According to the commission, there has been some work going on. It's not over yet. When it is completed, insurance agencies will explain how plans for both of these factors will be implemented, but this is not currently available, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u12	President. I thank you for the answers, but I can't tell when to start paying according to new calculations, which means that I should probably continue to break that group until -- what? What's the basis? What is being done with this timeline, and why is this taking so long? I understand that it takes time for the reimbursement, but I don't understand why it can't be paid legally, by law, and right now. What causes the change to the future to not take place immediately? The minister talks about four years. It has been shown that it has been declared out of date, that it is old, and that it is not back in ten years, as an interest organization has requested. Is a minister obliged in any way to carry out his limitations, or is this just a decision? Is that a political decision or an obligation? Why is this firm? Why is it only four years and not ten? [[The president calls.]] Since 2009, the microengineering alliance has noticed this. Then it started to be very tough, cutting people very badly. What is the justification for not paying back ten years?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u13	A respectable president. As I told you before, a insurance agency has to review that case, and all activities are being carried out on the hands of an insurance agency. It's no secret that Social Services has been in a very good relationship with the National Insurance Office. Changes are being made in this regard. The U.S.A. has itself noted that by the end of this month there will be a time line in this subject. I would like to point out in this context, both in the context of change and correction, that it is important, first of all, to consider the matter carefully in order to have it completely right now as to how it will be handled. Second, it is important to have a conversation between the Department of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Economics about how to handle this, both for the future and about the factors to be corrected again. I didn't get the second question, but I think I'm going to get one more inquiry about it in unsubstantiated inquiries and I'll answer it then.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u14	Mr. President. I think there's a little bit of a shade over the Senate Hall today. Britain's difficulty in agreeing on how to get out of the European Union is raigismic. The eviction agreement was rocked, and now each hand is against the other, and no one knows how that case smells, as well as how it affects the communication between Britain and Iceland, and so on. V.E.G. Secretary of State, however, has not given up the fact that Bgret has given rise to major opportunities for Iceland. In fact, it is difficult to see what that opportunity is. In mid-O October. I presented written requests to the highest level. Secretary of State on the status of Icelandic citizens in Britain by Bgret, and in the same way, the highest. Minister of Justice on the status of British citizens here. Neither has been answered. I find that very strange in view of both the highest. Secretary of state and supreme. The prime minister has observed that mutual rights have been guaranteed with or without an outing agreement. In a press release from the State Department since December 20th. says, with permission of the president: However, there is a political agreement between Iceland and Britain to ensure a mutual right of citizens to continue living after an outing, even if Britain leaves the EU without a contract. So I ask the highest. Minister of State why he does not trust to answer my written inquiry. Don't you agree to the agreements and promises between the British and the Icelanders on these matters? Finally: Will these promises and contracts be taken to citizens who intend to settle in the future lands or only to those already living in the countries? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u15	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Hv. A senator makes talk of the British exits from the European Union. I think it's important to learn the correct lesson. I think it's clear to all of them that here has seriously spoken about how it would be good for Iceland to walk in the European Union that they can never use the argument that everyone realized was advising but was used, that it's no big deal to walk in the European Union because it's so easy to walk out again if you don't like the stay. I assume that those members of a group that are particularly with the European Union package on all tables at their national meetings will never say anything like that again. I think we can count on that. Isn't that right, Mr. Honorable President? It's not easy to walk out of the European Union. When it comes to an opportunity, it is not just the one here who spoke about it. In case of a moment. A senator looks up the interview with the chairman and the backup plan Backs up he sees that both of them talk about it, one in the council and the other in interviews with RUS, of course, that it would be an opportunity, especially in the fishing road, if the British got back their freedom of business that they don't now have. About what question? The senator is surprised to learn that we have not yet answered it. A senator did well to review the news announcements that have been published. I'll see what it's like. These questions are not to be answered in writing and in other ways, as it were. A senator went over and read carefully in a statement and a press release from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u16	Mr. President. That was a nice talk from the highest. A minister of state who is careful is drawing some conclusions from facts. It is not in the European Union to blame for the failure of the British to get out of there. It is their own self - defeat that is open to all who have eyes and ears. But it may not be possible to say at all times about the highest. Secretary of state. On the other hand, I would like to ask him: Have any arrangements been made for Icelandic seabed interests? The British will accept a large portion of our fish export. If they are out of the European Union without a contract and if they are unable to negotiate free trade agreements between Britain and the European Union, the interests of the Icelandic seabed will become upset, as much of the fish that goes to Britain that continues to be sold to continental Europe. [[The president calls.]] Does this not sum up the fact that international cooperation is far more important than two - sided cooperation? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u17	A respectable president. It's gonna be interesting to see what's going on. A senator will again argue that it is not a matter to walk out of the European Union if one walks in. It'll be very interesting to keep track of it in the near future. International cooperation and international cooperation are not the same. I hope so. A senator is not involved because we are engaged in all the international cooperation that exists. Of course, we need to examine what that involves. Hv. A senator referred to things we cannot handle. We will not be able to determine what a separation will be like between the British and the European Union. Our line has always been clear to our friends in the European Union and the British, that if there are business restrictions after divorce, it will be lost by everyone, including us. We're in a hurry. There's no winner if there's any business barriers left. But I am not responsible for any agreements or contracts made by the European Union or the British in these discussions and cannot control it. What we have done, a respectable president, and as we have studied both in public areas, in the State Department of State, and in the council, is to map our interests and try to prepare us for all the positions that may arise. We try to ensure Icelandic interests as well as possible in any situation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think it was the right decision to put it first, even though some people did not have anything to do with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u18	A respectable president. In June of June, more than six months ago, the government agent who took over the city's office is covering not just poor people but the poorest poorer people in Iceland. There are dozens of people underneath that live at less than 80,000 bucks. per month. Those of you at least get, I've heard, I'll give you 18,000 bucks. per month. Do these individuals have the opportunity to obtain social benefits? No. If they have a mate, they will not receive social benefits. They are made up of the mate. This has been happening for ten years since May 1st, 2009. Now the Kingdom comes and says, "Hey, we're just going to add four years. Only four. Will the state say, " Jess! We managed to get six years from the poorest in the country? We have paid fair compensations because the disabled and the sick have been broken. There is reasonableness in paying back everything. I'll ask the minister, will he ever do that? Let us see that these include individuals who were not merely illegal but who were the little compensation they received in order to impair the death benefits of a marriage mate. I'm asking, "How far can this system go in beating the worst in this society? I'm sure we'll stop here and start changing something. I ask the minister, will he make sure this is changed?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u19	A respectable president. Like I said in answer to a question from what. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen is an insurance agency working on these matters and will present an update on them soon, as mentioned on the website of the Agency and in the public field. It can be said that it is quite true that the work being done there is four years. It uses general laws. That was even. introduced to a meeting of the welfare committee last night. However, the Agency is going over the matter and realizing its scope, reviewing the resources the Agency has, and preparing a timeline. In this regard, it is all right to tell how much time each person can take. No correction can be executed on this by running a simple program at the insurance agency but needs to be contacted by each person. Then it needs to be contacted by the SECs in all the countries in which they have lived, calling out for information from there, getting it all together to Iceland, then discussing with the relevant person again, reviewing the case, and directly calculating each individual. In this regard, U.S. National Institutes of Insurance have noted that getting answers from our magazine offices in Scandinavia, such as Norway, can take up to eight months. So there are many things to look at. The question is enormously complex because it has been done in this way for a very long time, such as the whale. A senator pointed out. Then you can point out that an agent took two years to determine the matter. So even if this takes more than one week for a short period of time, it is important to be careful so that it is right when it is done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u20	A respectable president. It is often too difficult to correct a microorganism case, but it is often too difficult to take away their rights. I ask: Is it a political decision to pay back just four years? Is it a financial decision, then, that the council may come to? Or is the highest. Ministers don't agree that we must make sure that people who live in absolute poverty and starve have their rights but are not trying to say that this is difficult for an insurance agency to calculate? A insurance agency calculated how people were to receive these benefits. To figure it out and get paid, she had to have all the information. The data are available, so the only difference is to change the percentage and give the right one. The Agency has all the information. To say otherwise is nothing more than a twist to delay the situation. And she is under obligation to do this one, two, and three, and she is also obliged to stop this illegal mistake.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u21	A respectable president. I reiterate what I traced earlier, that it is not a simple matter to correct this in time because we should take into account what the person has been paid in other countries he has lived in. It's hard work to call for such things because they don't exist in a foundation insurance institution. It's been clear. Therefore, the insurance agency has been working on getting time lines on the case to see how long this will take, and has presented it, and has been in touch with the Department of Social Affairs on this subject. As I said at a social services committee meeting yesterday, I think it is very important that the Social Affairs and Security Office can be in good cooperation with the council, with the welfare committee on this matter. I hope there is a time line on the case within a few weeks, as the U.S.A. has said. It can then be considered at the council's scene, on the welfare committee, and so forth, because it is important that we bring this matter to its proper place as soon as possible. [[The president calls.]] But as I said earlier, it is also important that we try and do so right this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u22	The President intends to make small contributions on the program in agreement and the wishes of the ministers involved and their circumstances. They will now be taken before the 4th and then the 5th part. Then the president also wants to inform us that he expects a longer lunch break, i.e. starting at 0800 hours. 13◯14, and at the same time, the chairman of Congress arrange for a meeting with them. 13th
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u23	A respectable president. I recommend a synopsis of the warrant for the government to validate for Iceland an updated holiday deal between the EFTA and Turkey signed on June 25th, 2018. In 1992, the EFTA and Turkey signed free trade agreements. In 2014, the countries began a debate on the update of the free trade agreement, which was signed on June 25, 2018. The Parliamentary arrangement explains the main components of the free trade agreement. It shows that the new arrangement of change has been combined with the requirements of the current vacation agreement in a single text. The main improvements and changes are that the forewords have been modified, this agreement includes the services trade, the business of sustainable development, and the solution of issues not reached by the current holiday agreement, but are usually included in the contracts that the EFTA makes today. Then there has been an updated brain rights. The exports from Iceland to Turkey were 2.1 billion in 2017, mainly sea products, machines, skins, and skin. The import from Turkey has fluctuated over the course of years, based on whether a ship was built for Iceland that year in Turkey or not. It has rocked from 2.4 billion in 2010 to 24.4 billion in 2017. Besides machines and transportation, there are products from Turkey, such as manufacturing products, raw materials, and food. The export of the service trade to Turkey was 434 million in 2017 and the import was 698 million. Human rights in Turkey have been under discussion. It should be noted that various aspects of the procedure are now added to a free trade agreement with Turkey on human rights, sustainable development and environment that are not in the current vacation agreement. It is in accordance with foreign policy to validate business agreements with the state, despite having disagreements in other matters, such as human rights. In this regard, there is, for example, EFTA free trade agreements with Colombia and the state of the Persian Gulf Society, including Saudi Arabia, and Iceland and China's vacation agreements, which the General has approved the validation of all these free trade agreements. The procedure has been the same in the other EFTA countries, i.e. that criticism of human rights status so far has not, in any case, prevented the validation of free trade agreements. As opposed to the case of EFTA, the United Nations institutions generally view criticism as a result of human rights. In addition, there is evidence that free trade between countries can promote reform in democratic and human rights. A respectable president. I suggest that after this discussion, the proposal be referred to a further discussion. ... andwhat. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u24	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this and also for bringing up human rights matters in the countries we are. to negotiate free shop agreements. I want to go to the highest. Minister of Congress informs the World of what discussion of human rights matters involving Tyre and other free trade agreements took place within the government. Is there a chance that you could just stick around, start thinking a little bit more about what contracts have made? It is often said that it is better to be in touch, to keep them in touch with the material that repeatedly violates human rights. But what has really been the result? Have we appreciated it? Could it be that the time has come for us Iceland to reevaluate our position and to take into consideration which state is regular and regular, some of which, completely selective, to violate human rights? So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Did any discussion about this agreement with Turk regarding the violations of human rights that take place in Turkey under the command of Erdogans occur? And it would also be interesting to know, if that discussion has taken place, what it is, and what views were tore from this point of view.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u25	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Hv. A senator raised issues that are important to always roll over, i.e. the position of human rights in the world and what we can do to put our weight on the scales in order to change matters for the better. It is true that, of course, these issues have been discussed, including the following: ... government. I've discussed it, too, like a dog. A senator knows when. State Department. It has to be natural to say, as it is, if we set the meter that we should do business with countries that I'm not saying were. A senator is referring to someone who has human rights in the place we want and who is in our home, perhaps not too much left. There would not be many countries that we could do business with. As I understand why. The question is, Are we taking the right step to increase human rights by increasing free trade and international relations, or is that having the opposite effect? I think the general answer is in no doubt: the more business, the more communication and the more likely we are to be subject to democratic development and to human rights in the respective countries. That's actually what the EFTA and the EU are trying to do, and it's certainly the idea of the World Trade Agency trying, and the general rule is to increase business. Because business is much more than mere exchange for money. There are also communication between people and people who are learning different cultures and who are trying to understand things better. If we believe that the arrangement we have, which is what we emphasize, human rights, rights, democracy, is the best thing I really believe, then I think there are reasons for it, and there are a number of examples in the past that once people get to know such an arrangement, they prefer to have such an arrangement at home. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u26	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The minister's answer is yes, and there are many things he came in on. But there is one thing he did not do; he did not answer what discussion had taken place on this government agreement, whether Minister, to produce ministers of the left movement, had come up and made comments or debates. I'm calling for the Council to be informed as to the question of the minister of the government in this regard. I am convinced that the more we communicate with the outside world, the nations, eventually the beauty, democracy, and freedom work. But there is a need to say that in some areas, and especially toward certain nations, it is quite possible. It is my speculation to the Philippines, Turkey, or Saudi Arabia, that we have a general view or an investigation to make a long - term agreement with the Philippines, to make a vacation agreement with the Philippines, Turkey, or Saudi Arabia, provide something less of a violation of human rights and a greater awareness of democracies, equality, and freedom. In a package of agreements, commitments are made to support democracy, legal regulations, human rights and freedom in accordance with national rights and the United Nations Convention and the Declaration of Human Rights. Can we be confident that Turks will respond? Will there be any repercussions on the part of Iceland if we experience it again and again that they won't do it? Have we set limits on this? One year, two years? If there is no change, in order to increase human rights, what position will we take? Will we make this law worth anything? Should there be any part of this arrangement? [[The president calls.]] Or will we just continue to ignore such things that are well - meaning and then do nothing about them?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u27	A respectable president. Let's just bring it up. There's not been a dispute between the governments, and I hope there's no division between council members, when it comes to human rights and focus on human rights. Just the fact that we were in the Human Rights Council shows the status of the Icelanders. There is activity - if there is a limit, e.g. An organization like Human Rights Watch has claimed that our conduct in the Human Rights Council has held back, e.g. Dutertes. The steps we have taken in this government on human rights have been successful. There is, however, the possibility that human rights - we know far more about human rights now than we knew before. Despite their mismanagement, the situation of human rights has not been better than it is now. In general, the policy of nations we compare with is to promote internationalism - I think there is no way to say that it has had a bad effect when it comes to human rights. Me and what. A senator has been working on this for some time. By the time we started, it was e.g. a large proportion of Europe in a very different area now. When the country broke down, the values we had maintained, of course, were very satisfying, so we just look at people who are relatively close to us. And surely we can also see in Iceland that here we have taken a big step in the right direction, including the right direction. Because we have been dealing with other nations and know what is going on there, and we want to pick up what happens best elsewhere. I hope that that's what they're dealing with. If we are going to go somewhere else and take out all the countries that we are not happy with on human rights when it comes to our business list, then it is a very long list, and there may be countries that are closer to us than we might think before we discuss it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u28	President. Thank you very much. Minister of advance, and I'm going to have an answer similar to what happened. A senator before me. It has been a dominant view that free shop will lead to equal opportunities for all. That's the goal. Other figures then speak of inequities, especially between countries, incontrovertible. I'd like to get to it from that. You don't agree on it all the same. Some approach prosperity as the basis for human rights; others approach human rights as a basis for prosperity. I'd like to take the student I think is right and look at it and this declared purpose of vacation contracts. I know it's the highest. A minister speaks for the national policy of increasing international free trade agreements. In the past, he said that he generally viewed it as being in the field of others rather than necessarily EFTA for securing human rights and specific institutions. However, in view of the fact that we are promoting a global vacation business and our aim is to keep the world free. I would like to be enjoyed by most people, and I would like to ask if he could agree with me that there could be a way to be successful in this area sooner or later that international institutions are connected and an EFTA organization would be involved. I realize that Iceland alone would most likely not sign many contracts with countries such as Turkey if it were inexplicable to this country. But in EFTA, and then in another organization, it could certainly have an effect. I'd like to hear an opinion. A minister is to see if there was anything we really ought to speak for. The drop'll break the stone. We have a purpose to distribute prosperity, a global prosperity. Human rights do not come after that task is completed. They are essential for us to complete that assignment. So we have a responsibility for these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. Similarly, a member of the council for the counter-sponsor. Just to say, when it comes to Turkey, and I'm not going through it all, we've taken a position with human rights in another field. In addition, we are putting the human rights section into these EFTA contracts to draw attention to them. Hv. One senator, who I believe, at least 20 years ago, believed that the conclusion, we believed that human rights, rights, democracy were the basis for economic prosperity. There is another example in the world today, however. Economic prosperity has been achieved. I make it a rule for all my two-way meetings with countries where there is a great shortage of human rights to address these issues separately. I was often told that when they spoke to the representatives of the German Republic of Germany, part of human rights must be involved in bringing people out of poverty. They say: We've taken 800 million from the worst poverty, much of it in the middle class, so you review the viewpoint of these individuals. Then we can ask ourselves: " Is this more likely, because we felt that there were many things that were missing the human rights issues in the large and powerful economic powers that are becoming the world's largest economic power, an increasing number of relationships, including the increase in communication? in business areas, where human rights and democracy are increased or not? That's a question I'm sure to wonder about. If we come to the conclusion that it is not, the change will not just turn to EFTA, which is natural. To the International Business Agency. The idea of the World Trade Agency and GATT was to have a commercial environment where we would have a totally multinational partnership, since we would have most if not all nations are underneath. Then there are certain exceptions, such as North Korea and South Africa at the time, for which men took absolutely special action and were content with it in the international community over violations of human rights. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We would be talking about something very drastic if we changed from the way we have been going so far. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u30	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. So root technology is absolutely great, especially if there's good goals. That's right, if we assume business is a step in the right direction, free and increased trade between countries -- I'll make my point earlier, that I realize that if Iceland is going to be on its own with that sort of demand, it'll probably be cut off. But because all of this hangs in this way, I wonder about the Western or Western countries in the European Union, in the international Union, do not deal with these countries in human kindness, nor is it the opposite. This is both advantages if a person is able to fit strings and emphasize human rights and can be defined as human rights. I also realize that in some places it is simply a matter of discussing the right to life, elsewhere it is the right to live with dignity, that is, in various ways. Still, there is a decision to assume that we approve of human affairs in such a way as to bring people to their senses, to the limit, and only if they make their lives acceptable to each government. That's what it's all about. The idea is that these countries could somehow use their strength together. It's a radical idea, but at some point it must come up, because it's part of a much bigger case on a universal scale. It's part of which world movie will be on top, so I'm talking about a longer future. Again, I ask: Is this something that is completely unrealistic and too radical to be found, that men can combine to use it as a force of force? I'm going to say "thank you because we've really got something that's important to our partners if they can meet some kind of solidarity on the demands.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u31	A respectable president. I hope so. A senator did not understand me to mean that there was some surrender. It's not like that at all. We are going to the Human Rights Council and were encouraged to do so because of our progress. It has been taken, so we were encouraged to join the Human Rights Council. I am the first secretary to address the United Nations Human Rights Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u32	I'm more asking about international solidarity...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u33	I look at it because of what. A senator asks us about the solidarity of the Western powers and of those countries who agree with them, that we are taking advantage of our cohesion. Just this little walk of ours has had some success, anyway, in response to the response of human rights organizations. And what if the bigger ones do so? Let's look closer. Despite our ability to be satisfied with the rightness of human rights, in the past, you have indeed seen tremendous changes in Icelandic society, for the very good of many. I don't think they've been here unless you get to know someone else. You don't get to know other people unless you're dealing with other people. And as I mention business is not just business that they are completely impersonal; that I right goods, puk. A senator could pass money or service or where it is. This is communication. You learn to do business or to deal with other countries that do things differently. You learn a lot of things. I am, for example. and I believe that this is the best way to make peace. The more young people get to know other young people in other countries, I don't talk about in other continents, the more likely they are to lead to values we represent, such as democracy, such as human rights, such as the Supreme Court. This will make it more likely that they will be present. And the people who believe them when they come to know these values and those in other lands doubt them and see something they want to see at home. Does this mean that we are not to mention human rights in the field of EFTA? No, that doesn't mean it, and actually I think we should always do it. [[The president calls.]] However, I believe that one way to increase human rights in the world is by increasing business.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u34	Mr. President. There's been mention of human rights. It is true that half the world, and more than that, may worry about human rights and human rights in Turkey, where Erdogan and his party rule in a very negative way, in a mild way. I would like to remind you of something else that has also raised questions and criticism, or invasion, of Syria, and perhaps even debated that they devote themselves to some sort of security area and thus a piece of the land. These are all things that worry you. But I'm only going to mention that human rights violations in Turkey are very focused on the Kuries. We were visited by three Kurda to the State Department not long ago, and they were here to explain their case in public. Everything there that was seen and heard was very sad, and it shows that it is actually going seriously toward this huge nation, so let's say, minority, it's a nation. Kurds are distributed between five and six countries, most of which are in Iraq and Turkey. They are not under the responsibility of forming a kingdom, as defined by their main political parties, but by gaining increased self - control, each group in its own state. So they have broken human rights. There are organized funerals against the Kurdurs in towns and cities, both in Turkey and in Syria today. It's mostly in Iraq that the Kurds have made fairly effective in their search for self-management, or increased self-control, let's say. I'm going to use this opportunity - this is where the need for vacation contracts has been discussed, and yes, often it is said that they could be of use by governments that violate human rights. And on the other hand, they could benefit from the opposition of the land that wants civil rights and human rights. Businesses between nations and other things are discussed. I don't intend to get involved in that discussion anymore, but I would like to strongly encourage special emphasis on the criticism of human rights in Turkey and their conduct in Kurda. Of course, it is time for the international community to place its weight on the scales so that the human rights and self - control of this proud nation can be given to both wings. Other than that, I refer to a discussion on a foreign matter committee where I sit and then give up a later session. Here at the council. Thank you, both the highest. Ministers and senators for the preceding discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u35	Mr. President. There will always be some conflict within you when we deal at free markets with dictatorial states, and let's not worry about the fact that Turkey is de Ifacto monarchy today. I'm in one of the vacation shops, and I consider it an irrefutable opportunity to do more business with all the countries of the world. There's a lot to do, both for us and for the rest of the countries. It's like the highest. A minister said earlier that it is important to communicate with people and to do good business with people in order to continue developing relationships. On the other hand, I also support the legal government, so it is extremely unpleasant when it comes to the need to consider these matters. This is true in all discussions about such free trade agreements that it is strongly believed that increasing trade will result in greater freedoms and greater democracy, i.e. free tempers of free people The truth is, there are only free people who can make free markets. Simply put, the very idea that you are not subject to a particular form of slavery is that you can do free business with other people. I am not aware of any independent research that has unequivocally demonstrated that increasing trade has resulted in more freedom and fewer violations of human rights. It has been held very long, but evidence is small or at best mixed with popular claims on social development and more often not related to democracies, land rights and agricultural change, industrial policy and other factors. On the other hand, I am aware of studies that have made it very clear that measures to support women in the labour market, for the granting of the legal state, and for the democratic administration have led to a more pronounced business. We've been through this recently, for example. based on the EFTA Council Committee, i.e. It seems that free people draw a free market, not vice versa. Thus, free trade agreements are to some extent conditioned by successful results in human development and rights. They can be interpreted as prizes for advancing to the moral level in the implementation of a government that the international community required after World War II. This should be left in your hands. Hence, the preambles of each individual free trade deal that we make on the basis of EFTA and two-sided state that the countries issue their commitments to democracy and regulations, human rights and freedom of man. It's an appeal, not an recognition. This is essential, not a declaration of will. This is basic, not secondary. There is always reason to ask if we cannot assume that the countries we are making an agreement with will take on this important point in the premium of all free trade agreements if we can be confident that they will keep all the other items. I'm not sure you are. We know that when major political developments occur, they are often accompanied by large markets. For example, Turkey is one of the countries who engage in a considerable censorship of the Internet, and therefore we need to ask when talking about adding good terms about services in a vacation contract: Is it possible that the web service or sales supply of companies running websites in Iceland that provide some kind of public service in the world will be censored for political goals in Turkey? It is true that in recent years this has been discussed and particularly in the European Union, but it has not yet been willing on the basis of EFTA to provide clear instructions that there should be mutual freedom of information and the flow of information between treaties. As a result, you cannot be sure that there will be no censorship for any reason in Icelandic Web Services that would affect the right to the commercial rights of those who would like to benefit from such contracts. I'm not gonna hang over this for very long right now because I think this is something that has something to do with a general discussion at the State Department and even at the council about where we're dragging the line. But I'm going to say that I had just arrived from Turkey on July 15, 2016, when the revolution was under way. It took two hours for me to be in Istanbul when the air raids started. I have, like the whole world, watched tens of thousands of people in prisons, and many have just disappeared, often for no reason, except to be liberal democrats who dared speak against Recep Tayyip Erdogan and his reign. Other than that, like a snooze. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson came in earlier, is still an unsolved problem in the case of Turks, who have, in effect, been treated. In the war in Syria, one of Iceland's casualties was illustrated. It is cheap and easy to stand by freedom of expression and justice and human rights in general when things are well worked out. It is far harder to stand by human rights when it costs you something, and certainly it would cost us something not to update this agreement. We cannot expand our service business, and so forth, perhaps our opportunity to do business on a Turkish market weakens. It's probably natural and important that we continue to develop our free shops and our vacation shops as a nation, and I will continue to support all our work in that direction. This is simply important, and especially because of my presence on the EFTA Committee of Congress. But, of course, I have to use my moral standards when we're working on contracts like this at the council and we each consider the time to prize the kind of conduct we've seen. So I suggest that when we take that up with a discussion on the Foreign Affairs Committee in the near future, we will include the following discussion. discuss how the line should be drawn in order to promote business agreements and to increase business dealings with dictators and others who violate human rights on a large scale, so that we have some kind of message that can be sent to the highest level. Secretary of State on where we want to be in that situation. I think there's a lot of work to do with an increased vacation store, but we have to balance it with other viewpoints.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u36	A respectable president. I have to say goodbye here because we've got the Director of the EFTA Committee on Talk, because he's fine with the expeditation of the holiday deal with Turkey, which is the same thing as in all the vacation contracts EFTA does these days. There is a contract commitment made to support democracy, legal regulations, human rights and human freedom. The senator spoke of the matter as having to be made by the council, and the Ministry knows where to draw the line on these topics. We can decide where the line is, but when do we know when it's crossed? You see, there are a number of definitions clearly in these contracts. For example, in chapter 2, there is a set of values. It will refer to the specific section of the consistent description and product names file. And then there is a whole chapter, chapter 9, of the solution to issues involved in the business being covered by this agreement. It contains regulations for the development and development of procedures that will begin when it is covered. What about the exit words? What about these beautiful words that apply to the basic value of society that we say should be backed up by such treaties? Where is the sentence at the time of crossing those lines? Not even a word of the making is needed. Where's the surveillance? Where is the surveillance for the development of human rights in countries controlled by free trade agreements? Is this something that should be taken up at the scene of EFTA? Is this something that EFTA or the Member States themselves should put on a steady course so that we can tell each year how these developments develop in each state?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u37	Mr. President. These are good questions. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson is up. As far as I know, there is no law that makes a pact against a violation of what might be called soft - handed statement, or in English, by the permission of a president, the once-in-a-contracted statement, which is at the beginning of agreements because the thought may not be in mind and even is not a great will for it in some states. It has, for example. It has been said that some countries just don't want business to mix with human rights, that it should be somehow the object. I would think that it should, at least, be some sort of law that allows states, treaties, temporarily putting on break agreements like this when violations of human rights are committed and other things. It could naturally be some kind of requirement for how to implement it, how long to last it without the contract even going off automatically or something similar. But by doing that, there is an effective remedy that is not available in contracts today, at least in no contracts I know of. Well, I haven't read a lot of vacation contracts, but somebody, actually, I really do like it very much. It would change a bit of the conversation to have some sort of active resources, because like the highest. The minister of state said it's important to discuss this before. But it does not matter which basis it is made. If you discuss this with some form of hand selection, you can speak softly but always have a large bouquet. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u38	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. I think we definitely need to get up in some direction in this situation so that the promise of free tradesmen will not be just a word on paper. When we discuss changes in the constitution, it is often pointed out that in the greatest totalitarian countries in history, there have been many very beautiful constitutions, even the most beautiful. The only problem was that no one followed them. The same can be true of those monasteries. We use five lines of human rights to justify making deals with any state. Thereafter, there are no defined criteria for reviewing the lines on these points. They don't even get information about it. We know, for example, how things are developing in various countries, but they just need a system around them. I think the Chairman of the EFTA Committee is encouraged to celebrate these activities because, as he entered, the parties at the table are thereby having a very different view of the relationship between human rights and business. I think Iceland is in the lead and is supposed to be hauling the wagon. To that end, we must not pretend that we have become free by placing a few words in vacation contracts without following them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u39	Mr. President. It may be all right to state for this reason that on the basis of the EFTA committee, we have recently made a suggestion. paritaprevir Friðriksson Friduksson, trying to help improve gender equality in the process of free trade agreements on our part, and I've also been trying to pressure us to take this information free, this mutual freedom of information, between parties' contracts as a kind of reference, at any rate in a negotiation search. So on the basis of the EFTA Senate Committee, there are a number of things that I hope to reach the Ministers and go to the vacation agreements. For example, we may gradually be able to get involved in the pursuit of human rights in our business. Whether we can go all the way and wear some big bouquet, even though we speak in softer and better ammo when we have these conversations, certainly difficult conversations with countries that have been breaking human rights, I don't think that's gonna happen overnight. As a result, I, as I say, have not exactly taken sides in this agreement here, nor have other contracts that have come before the council and will continue to do so, except that this balance between human rights and business freedom must be in place, must be established by all Member States agreements. There has to be some kind of tool available for the highest level. Ministers and others there who have the conversations to make sure that major violations of human rights will not be accepted in quiet silence.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u40	A respectable president. I like this conversation about human rights matters, and I've thought it was very perfunctory. It is our policy to make our voice heard when it comes to human rights. But I'm not sure our top is anything particularly big. [[For example, consider it possible to be larger.]] Hv. A senator calls it bigger. But I've never had any superpower dreams. Some people want to be in major Europe, and they feel small, but I've never understood them. I'm perfectly comfortable being an Icelander and aware of the state and size of the country. We can do good in various matters, especially by example. We too should call attention to human rights, and that is what we have done. Hv. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson spoke of the conflict in Syria as well as of Kurdah. The three members there were referred to meet my political assistant at the State Department and we're looking at the evidence there. That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy and what. paritaprevir You mentioned Andrés Jónsson, and I thought I was a good student of that subject. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have adopted and had the leadership of the equality issues and the value of women in the world trade as well as in the field of EFTA. Hv. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy's heard me talk about that case at meetings with a bang. Councilmen are also spoken of the matter at meetings with counsellors. The basic principles of our Icelanders in it are perfectly clear. Hv. A senator spoke of very serious things, e.g. censorship. When we get to that point, there are a lot of countries we do business with who are in that place. Although I will not reduce my concern about the state of human rights in Turkey, we do business and have made negotiations with countries that are much further involved in human rights violations. What we have done: It was broken a sheet of paper when I spoke to the Council of Human Rights. We know what happened afterward. We have even. use this site - we have contracts like vacation agreements with those countries too, at least Saudi Arabia - to criticize why a state like Saudi Arabia is on the Human Rights Council, is signing up all agreements, and goes by it. I know that matters because we have received confirmation and have received strong criticism from those states for our progress in that regard. I could go over the list of countries we do business with and have made a free trade deal with, both twice as well as from the EFTA roads, and so is e.g. The European Union with free trade agreements with other countries, which are certainly not well on the field of human rights, and we could criticize all of that. Not only have we used ourselves in the Human Rights Council but we have also initiated a group of three men, whose conclusion will be presented, to examine human rights in the developing world, in our developing policy. I think it's important that we give such a message and appreciate how we give it the best way we give it, so it's the best results. But we're not in that place. We are not an economic empire. If we're going to turn off business with someone, it won't cause any tremor anywhere, I think I can tell you. Almost no country would feel it, at least not proportionate. It may be a device we don't have, but some superpowers obviously have. Because we're dealing with Turkey, I'm going to go over the situation in human rights, but it's got worse since the coup in July 2016. Since then, the Icelandic government has repeatedly expressed concern over human rights and has criticized the conduct of the Turkish government. True, I did, too, before becoming a minister of foreign affairs. The United States has emphasized freedom of the media and the independence of courts and has protested the efforts of humanists in the country. Has Iceland's position been presented publicly, in the media, in the declarations and talks at the world institutions, in particular the ASE, the European Council, and the UN Human Rights Council, as well as in the two - side conversations with Tyrki, both in the ones I've had as secretary and ambassador. I've taken that matter up in my head at the United Nations Human Rights Council. At the European Parliament's Ministerial Conference in Denmark last May, concern of the situation was further expressed, including how long the disaster law in Turkey had been and that elections would be held while it was in effect. Then, since January 2018, Turkey's intervention in Syria received special criticism by the Icelandic government to form in the scene of the Atlantic Community. At the level of government officials, conversation has also taken place, especially with the Turkish embassy in Iceland, about the situation in Turkey and the concern of the government there. Iceland has also adopted various European declarations at the European Council and the OSE, where criticism and concerns are expressed. So when it comes to the Watch on Human Rights in Turkey, we have both taken the initiative and stressed that matter. Although the general state of human rights has improved in recent decades, I do not talk about years, it is, unfortunately, enough to take it. We haven't been able to point out all those issues, according to the nature of the matter. But the way we walk is noticed when it comes to bringing attention to the world's troubled human rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u41	Mr. President. Yes, it's right next to the highest. The minister of state may not be particularly large, but it may be good to use it; mosquitoes are not particularly large, but they irritate a variety of people. It is often that we do good things because it is moral rather than necessarily a powerful influence. But what I would like to wonder at the highest. A minister is different. Business continues to develop, and business practices have changed considerably in recent decades. In the past, free trade agreements of the first generation, as we call them today, were nothing but trade trades and customs arts. They actually needed nothing more than mutual guarantee that ships were not sent to prevent other ships from coming to sea or anything else that would prevent the flow of lips. Today, it is more complex with electronic and service transactions that do not always have the support that the transfer of atoms is directly involved. This involves transporting electronics from places that are truly important. There's a censor. He plays a part. Can we agree that electrons are important to transport freely, i.e. that there is no censorship, either political or commercial, Can we agree that it is as relevant for the service trade today as it was for the trade of goods at the time that there would be no barriers to transport - or, at the same time, to drop English, by permission of a president - would be in ports, ports, or other transportation measures?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u42	A respectable president. Hv. A senator often calls attention to various things that I think are important to me. I'm not gonna go on the smallest show, but I'm gonna take the big line in it, we can say, information, Internet security, and anything like that. This has a lot more dimensions than we, who are not experts on the stage, like a whale. A senator is in many respects, as we can see. Hv. A senator refers to a great change in a short period of time. Some kind of land or something, it's so tangible. Information flows are not as tangible as these factors; data can be provided and prepared in a number of ways. And it matters how they are multiplied on the universe and on media and so on. It also has an effect on the singing, not having to be a state, being able to spy out about people in a certain way, using a set of instruments, etc. It's a whole new threat. We grew up in the trades, which are the basis for this, but there was more service business. Now it's going really fast this way. This is one of the things we've been looking at when it comes to our national security policy. Of course, it has to do with everything. There's also one thing when it comes to the vacation agreements: they're just part of it. The general public can go and buy everything between heaven and earth in a relatively simple way online, without any agreements made by the government. It's just gonna get easier. Also, there is often a thin line between censorship and security. It's not good that truth is universal, that everything is just black and white, and it's not crying at all. However, this is a matter that we should look especially at everywhere. I've been thinking more about this in national security, when you see the trend there. [[The president calls.]] But things are connected, and it's not all cut and cut.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u43	Mr. President. I did not hear an answer to the personal question about whether freedom of information or the flow of information can be agreed to be as relevant in modern times through services and electronic trades as that things are allowed to flow freely into standard business. Anyway, thank you very much. A minister for a good answer because this certainly gets in the way of people. I'm afraid we'll forget a little bit about national security when it's about business and communication. Then there is reason to dig deeper into it with special consideration. I think that's why, if the highest. Thus, a minister is not opposed, trying to initiate some form of cooperation within the EFTA, even more, in an effort to promote the sense that this is a fundamental part of our modern business. There are, of course, all these human rights matters, and it's important and good how well Iceland has done in this regard over the years. But if we are not a step ahead and react properly when these new threats arise, not only in national security but also in the field of business, then there will be some form of tradition that will be difficult to back up. We will lose that opportunity to mold this by how to do it, rather than somehow cause people to do it by accident.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u44	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend the discussion much. Because of what? A senator asks if we can have any conversation and cooperation in this, I just want to say, in this case, I'm happy to cooperate, in this case with the EFTA Committee, which I've tried to work with as well as I can. It's very important. I was the chairman of the EFTA Committee myself, and it matters. I know we what we're doing. A senator who is now chairman of the EFTA Council Committee agrees on this. I think we should start by teaching people in these areas about these things. I think that would be a very good start. But, of course, I'm ready to discuss these matters. I'm not sure we can make a difference between national security and business. I think communication and business are all very much involved. It is very important to inform elected officials and officials of these factors, and the trend is much faster than we expect. Of course, much of our work environment has taken into account anything other than our present situation. Not that I claim that we are somewhere far back in ancient times in this regard. I'm not saying that. I'm just saying that evolution is very fast. These are many things to look at. Of course, I'm ready to discuss this with you. The members of Parliament and the Council Committee of EFTA and any other members of Congress who want to discuss this. The more information on these matters among elected agents and officials, the better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u45	A respectable president. I recommend a synopsis of authority for the government to validate for Iceland on the hand of a free trade between the EFTA and Ecuador signed on June 25th, 2018. The Parliamentary arrangement explains the main components of the free trade agreement. It shows that the free market agreement requires mutual delinquency and reductions in industrial products, marine products, and the environment, and inexpensive agricultural products. Thus, customs on all kinds of marine and industrial products exported from Iceland to Ecuador will fall from the implementation of the contract or during the adaptation period as well as from the major export products in the country. The exports from Iceland to Ecuador have been small over 30 million. K. in 2017. These include only the export of industrial products. Ecuador's import has also been small, but it has increased over the past few years to 600 million. K. in 2017. Most of this is the import of fruit and other foods. With mutual delinquency and the reduction of customs, the contract provides the basis for the increase in trade between countries. EFTA countries of Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland have made 28 free trade contracts with a total of 39 countries, including the Ecuador Treaty. I suggest, a respectable president, following this discussion, the proposal will be referred to a second session. ... andwhat. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u46	A respectable president. This will be a bill for a legal adjustment of law No. 3/2003, on official support for scientific research. The bill is written at the Ministry of Education and Culture. The purpose and purpose of the bill is to strengthen the policy goal of the Industry Fund and to adapt the rules of the Study Fund of the International Environment in that there is scientific research in Iceland for the betterment. The bill suggests that the Management Board of Industry will be separated from the Board of Research Fund and that it will be organized together by the Scientific Committee and the Technical Committee of Scientific and Technologies, with the exception of the chairman appointed by the Minister. Also, the Board of Research is authorized to participate in the financing of international research programmes in cooperation with foreign research funds. With a change in 2012, the law of No. 3,2003, for official support of scientific research, the name of the Shrimp Fund was converted to the Industry Fund. Along with the change in name, the fund's role was extended to finance research equipment to finance research in a larger sense. In addition to equipment, research, databases, document collections, and electronic infrastructure are a number of specialized research facilities. A respectable president. One of the measures at the EEA's Strategy and Management Plans for the Management Board of Science and Technology is a guide for the Agency's work, which will be a policy-makers for the development of national research infrastructure and an increase in the participation of Icelandic institutions in international research activities. The results of Operation 1 of the Strategy and Action Plan of the European Scientific and Technical Council will appear in the guide, but this procedure was defined in open consultation with the social challenges established for Iceland in the next decades. The infrastructure will play a key role in policy implementation using the priorities associated with the above social challenges. With increased government emphasis on research wood, the fund is fitting for independent administration, but so far the government of Research Fund has been in charge of the Industry Fund. The Independent Management Board of Industry will be actively involved in litigation policies in the seminaries and where researchers serve both science and innovation is expected to be the scientific and technical committee of the Scientific and Technologies Committee for the Management Board. A minister orders an chairman to establish a connection with the decision - making government. The adjustment also includes the implementation of procedure 1.9 at the Marketing Authorisation and Management Plan of the 2014 and Technical Council of Science and Technology2016. This transition includes the source of the Research Fund to accept the professional assessment of the global standards of applications so that the fund can set aside funds for the funding of research initiatives in cooperation with foreign competitive funds. This means that research funds from different countries meet for plans that highlight special themes or areas and advice to evaluate applications is made in common. This may be a big opportunity for Icelandic scientists in these programmes, but what has been prevented from participating in the Research Fund is that the Government has not been permitted to approve quality assessments performed by other than the legal advice of the fund under law. 3/2003. The cooperation of international research funds is set up as international professional advice, and it is essential that research funds be able to comply with these rules. It is important that the Research Fund is able to seize the opportunity to invite him to participate in protocols where it is anticipated that participation in Icelandic research institutions will include e.g. opening up new opportunities in research or that participation will significantly expand the area in Iceland. A respectable president. New creation and the practicality of ingenuity are essential to a wide range of employment, well - being, and the strength of a competitive nation. I look forward to the future knowing of the powerful men in our scientific and research work. The results speak for themselves, e.g. in international competitive funds. Of course, it is fascinating to know that in the EU global competitive funds of some 80 billion Iceland and Icelandic scientists, about 8 billion of them have reached about 10% of these funds. Is this result of a remarkable success, and the success rate is particularly impressive. A respectable president. We want to continue to create a knowledge society in which research and innovation are being introduced into the community by better education, better health, and better economy. In this way, we make our own current in the future's technological revolution and hold Iceland in the front row. This bill is part of that journey. I expected the case to be followed by this discussion referred to a second issue. ... andwhat. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u47	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. The Minister of Education for reviewing this important and good subject and celebrating its contributions. There has been a call to improve the situation. There's been a good partnership and a lot of cooperation with parties coming along, and I know that. A minister of education plays a key role. However, I would like to address a few things. As shown in a talk given at the highest. Minister is this bill in perfect harmony with the government policy, with emphasis on following measures in the recent Scientific and Technical Action Programme. It presents the needs of the scientific community, which is an enormously important and good step. A powerful scientific community is the strength of every community, and if we are to move forward, improve quality of life, and develop into a complex world today, this is an enormously important factor on which we can build. I'm going to have to grab a little bit of this report, but it says, with the permission of a president: With the bill, action of 17 is being implemented in the course and implementation programme of the 2014/2016 Scientific and Technical Council of Science and Technology, which states: ▪ The competitive funds of the Scientific and Technical Council will be reviewed to ensure that policy in global competitiveness and international market policies for management of the funds can be established. The funds managers are authorized to set aside funds for cooperation projects that have been approved by the management of the funds. Or if the funds are permitted to pay foreign partners, as appropriate. Here is another good thing that follows promises in a government covenant. We've gone to a lot of boxing, and we're moving on. The purpose of this legislation is to promote and strengthen the policy goal for the Industry Fund. As we have seen, we have strong and powerful scientists who are involved in the global work. It is important that they too are in good cooperation in the world and that we do not have some laws that are inhibited by it. This has been so. Icelandic scientists are truly sought after in international cooperation, and the following issue is further based on that strength and allows for more opportunities to cooperate. As we all know, cooperation is fundamental to building a strong society. It is also a step toward putting a special control over the Industry Fund, thus sharpening the policy - making role of the fund and focusing more fully on research infrastructure. I have the authority to play a very strong game. This has also resulted in a further improvement in scientific systems in Iceland. It's a huge step, and I'm glad you're doing it. I can't stop rephraseing how proud we can be of the growth of Icelandic science. We're supposed to hammer it, we're supposed to keep it up and show how happy we are. It is in most respects. I was, for example. at a meeting where representatives from the National Hospital of University Hospital have conducted an enormous number of research, and I understand that two requests a week are coming, a request to go to scientific research. It's so much more than I'd ever realized. If this matter strengthens and strengthens others in this regard, it should be welcomed. Icelandic scientists have valuable experience and knowledge in so many more fields; it is not just in the medical field. We have a great deal of cooperation with Norwegian nations, research and various projects, e.g. In the north of Akureyri, in the University of Akureyri, there are different fields and we need to share in this work. There are studies such as on the social effects of changing, changing climate change, and the impact on us that the glaciers are floundering and changing the marine ecosystems. It naturally has a marvelous effect on us, the island of the North Sea. They're working on the maping of the ocean floor and so much more that I don't even have the knowledge to mention here. However, I am aware of the importance of this. I think we should continue on this course because innovation and development will yield to improved and better society. We are laying the foundation for having strong individuals in the future, strong society with great knowledge and the courage to cooperate and progress in cooperation with other nations. We have everything to do with this area. I just want to thank you again. Minister for having this bill and happy to see what the government regularly calls on all its promises in a government contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u48	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the contributions of this bill. I'm always happy when we get an opportunity to discuss the importance of science, research and innovation. I mean, it's one of our most important things. The report on the bill says that Operation 1.9 is being implemented in the Strategy and Management Plan of the Scientific and Technical Council. I have to admit, after a few things have been done, that I'm not quite sure if anything else is necessary or if it's satisfying. I'm assuming that the Commission's discussion of the matter is fine, but I'm glad that the bill is being handled in a good discussion with the Research Council and the Scientific and Technical Council, I suppose they all had a point of view. After the Supreme Court, I especially wanted to say this. A minister began to talk about the success of our scientists, to form in the research programmes of the European Union. We've had tremendous success there, and I think we can be very proud of it. I had the opportunity to visit the European Union last week and to discuss with experts in various areas there, including the U.S.A. Experts in the research and innovation office, which specifically referred to the great success of our Icelanders to attend the European Union Framework Programme. I think we just need to encourage our people further in these matters. I'd also like to use this opportunity to highlight what we can contribute to developing such a frame plan as in the European Union. Although we are not members of the European Union, we have access to most of the working groups involved in the molding of these parties, and I also spoke with our staff in the embassy who explained to me its awesome work and to form with the Department of Education there. Of course, when it comes to molding the box about what kind of project you can apply, we should look very closely to our interests. I'd like to mention here, in particular, a north-south. Hv. A senator who spoke before me, Egilsdóttir Eglílsdóttir, also came into only the acidification of the sea, the health of the ocean, the things we call the blue economy, the environment in the big context, but our opportunities are great. I welcome all our steps to further promote science and research, especially in these areas. In fact, I've gone so far as to say that we have an incredible opportunity, when it comes to Arctic affairs, to become a Mecca study and knowledge of that area. So I agree with what's been presented here, and I'm glad the bill was submitted and the highest. Ministers continue to do that. By Christmas, we approved changes in corporate innovation. We were making it easier for innovation to finance and to increase tax pay. It's all going together, and it's also important that when we look at our research community and our basic research into the environment for the entire chain of good. This means that basic research is practical and it continues to support an enterprise to exploit such results in innovation. It's time to get to the top. Secretary of education and culture and the highest. The minister of innovation needs to work together and do it for the sake of Ranni and Technological Development Fund there. Our opportunities in many of these areas can surely be proud of our scientists and those who have been attending a competitive fund. As this bill's objective is to encourage it further, of course, I support it whole - souled. In fact, I have to admit that I would like to see, and then it may not be quite at the top. Ministers only indirectly, further international cooperation in research and science. I mentioned it at my visits in Brussels. In the time of the North, the work of working with Russian scientists is very closely involved. I'm sure it has more to do with politics than it is for scientists to work together. It's a question of what possibility we have of cooperating with each other to North America. The European Union has been doing a very good job and is opening its research programmes so that it is encouraging participation from other countries there, i.e. If the states are willing to pay back. As I say, there are many opportunities, and I believe that with our position as a member of these European research programmes, sitting in the Arctic Council, there is even a great chance with other nations to further promote research and scientific cooperation in this field.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u49	A respectable president. This is an excellent language that is presented here by the Ministry of Education and Culture, and the emphasis is on the defect in international research. It's very important to fix what's going on here and to deal with official financial laws and so on - it's all very good. There are a number of positive results, I think, but I find it inevitable to point out certain problems within a country that we also need to consider. This bill, hopefully, will do a lot of good things. There is an adjustment in communication skills that can arise from a foreign scientific fund, etc. If we were to review the distribution from the Research Fund for scholarship in 2019, 17% of applications were supported. It tells us one very important thing, that the production capacity of the Icelandic research community, if we can call it that way, is more important, we can accomplish much more. Not taking advantage of the value of the manufacturing potential will definitely affect us in the future. For example, due to subtropical strength only 11% of applications were sponsored, 28 of which were only three sources of strength. Of the 198 project strengths applications 31 were supported. Of course, I do not expect all projects to be of the same quality standard, but they are arranged according to certain categories and projects that are placed at the top of the budget until the money is finished. It reached that far, 16% at project grant. I would like to see a better dissociation of this, an analysis of what task grants we lost; of applications classified as quality applications, that the advantage of going into those tests and receiving the products that were due them would be great if it were obvious that they were going to be funded. There may be something that we can work with in the inquiry as a result. In view of this most excellent bill, I think it would be appropriate to point out the situation as it is today with an distribution from the Research Fund. We have much more room and ability to do basic research and related things, but we do not use it. I'm sorry, and I encourage the Ministry of Education to help solve that part of the problem too.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u50	A respectable president. Thank you. Parliaments who have discussed the important issue that is involved because science, research, and evolution will become the driving force for economic growth in the coming years. It is of utmost importance that we take seriously the setting of this global scientific organization. It's one of the things we talked about. A senator said that we would need to expand our global scientific activities and that we would mention the northern routes of our work. Then I can cheer you up. A senator has decided that we will be involved with the government in Japan as the minister of a Northern Ministerial Conference in 2020. All scientific cooperation in the North is increasing rapidly and safely. Of course, me and Iceland are supposed to take advantage of the geographic property we have for Iceland to become the centre of science and research. I see a lot of parishion in that we'd have a certain impulse in our system. We have a very powerful education system. It's very interesting to do research with Icelandic scientists, and I've been studying our major research institutions for over the years I've been a minister of education, culture, and science, and it's all very impressive. We have scientists who exert themselves in their research, and that is praiseworthy. That is why, a respected president, I find it very urgent that the government and the Council deal with these matters and that we take them into account, as has been shown in other cases. Senators. But I have to say, a respectable president, that I feel a little sad to see how few people in the hall discuss these matters of the future, these major issues that are so important to Iceland. I hope we will see a more intense discussion in the high Council on these future events. Sometimes it is that those sitting just in the hall - it is my desire, not to make comments to their interest, but much more to those who do not sit in the audience. Here we are truly discussing the big issues, and I call for a broad and active cooperation and agreement on these matters and the helpful comments received at the Assembly Hall. A respectable president. There are exciting times ahead of us on these issues, and we are in a unique place also with regard to our entire education system, our playing, elementary and high school, to promote it so that strong scientific research will be practiced here for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u51	A respectable president. I recommend a bill for a change in the law on personal treatment and the legal handling of criminal matters, a case in front of you. 812. The purpose of the bill is to establish a law on the legal status of those who rely on Icelandic Sign Language to deal with personal matters in court. However, the bill responds to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights from December 6, 2007, in the case of Westlund Rós Westlund against Iceland. The bill suggests a three - way legal adjustment. First of all, I have a 1. Suggested the important change that the state's budget pays fees and other costs for civil Sign Language in the event that a writer rely on Icelandic Sign Language for communication. According to local law, the person who calls such an interpreter has the cost of it. This is a suggestion for a new paragraph to be added to Article 10. legal in the management of private matters where sign - language and Icelandic Sign Language work will be arranged specifically, as is done today. In this regard, sign - language girls are not mentioned in current legal laws. Rather, they are subject to professionals called in those cases where a reporter is unable to communicate in a measured language. Similarly, sign - language girls today do not agree with the legal court, but this group only falls into English into foreign languages or vice versa and has specific legal requirements. Since sign - language girls are not included in the legal court interpretations and their work is limited to those who have sign language and so other skills, the bill suggests that their jobs and positions will be discussed in a special paragraph. The bill then suggests that the state funds also pay expenses from professionals who help those who are unable to communicate fully in spoken language or in Icelandic Sign Language. Based on the United Nations Convention on the disabled persons of December 13, 2006, fully validated by Iceland in 2016, but on Article 13. Member States shall provide effective access to the justice system to the disabled to the same extent as others, including by adapting all treatments according to their needs. Second, 4th and 5th. The bill proposed a change in criminal treatment laws, specifically on Article 12. The law, covering the hearing of the court and the 63. ...of a police report. These changes are in accordance with the proposed changes in paragraph 1. the bill on the civil treatment laws and is aimed at ensuring that the regulations of the two laws on this subject are comparable and consistent with the change. Third, there are paragraphs 2 and 3. the bill suggested a 3 mg change. 158 st. and 3 mg. 182. gr. legal in the handling of private matters in the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights from December 6, 2007, in the case of Westlund Rós Westlund against Iceland, and in no way nor in any way related to the proposal for a sign - language girl. In this case, the Court of Human Rights concluded that the defendant's right to the just treatment of the trial was against Article 6. The European Convention of Human Rights, with a valid 3rd mg. 158 st. a perennial therapy procedure for today's application of the appealer can present his case orally to a higher level of judgment in the event of absence of risk. The changes presented here assume that in the event that, despite the oral transfer of the Supreme Court, in the event that the unequivocal principle of such a case will not be defended by the Supreme Court or by the Supreme Court, it will usually be completed without it. A respectable president. So I have explained the subject of the bill and suggest that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u52	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister of Justice for delivering this case, which I believe is a very important and important legal step. V.E.G. Minister. Although this is not directly related to the subject of the bill, I'd like to address the access of people who don't normally speak fluent language if I can put it that way, to various institutions of the state where they have the tools or where people need to attend their rights. As it happens, I asked questions about, for example, the conservancy. Laws and rules in foreign languages, and then two or three days ago, if I recall correctly, there was a press release on the website of the county in which it was brought up that maybe. You might make a bit of a plan. I'm fishing for the highest attitude. A minister to see whether we need more than that we can ensure that people can communicate with the system, if we allow ourselves to call it, so that they can faithfully interpret where necessary and/or that those who provide advice or help them have access to material in language that they can impart to their clients. This has to do with the fact that we have so many civilians who are unable to succeed in Icelandic language. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u53	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for the objection and for calling attention to an interesting subject that can be discussed on different angles. I noticed it as a dog. A senator mentioned, making significant improvements on the county websites, and I agree that there needs to be some information in English over major seminaries and services provided by the county. Most important, though, I believe that, as has been done over the years and increasingly in recent years, I translate legislation that may involve foreigners. I take, for example, that recently I received new laws about foreigners from translation. There was a lot waiting for her, and I understand that. However, translating such laws is not a simple matter. Although the English text has to be very effective, there are not many professionals who can translate legislation, not even in English, so that it is reassuring. But, of course, we stress it, and I think all the Ministry does, to translate into at least some form of legislation, though all the legislation is not translated from word to word or any legal code, but at least The important thing. It's called a lot from lawyers, e.g. to assist foreigners. A great deal of improvement has to be done in many government institutions and rural communities as well. However, we live in Iceland, in addition to other countries, many of them, that it is possible to say that every institution has the human power to at least communicate in English and very widely in Norwegian languages. This too should be kept in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u54	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for good answer. I can sense her understanding as well as my desire to make things right and to celebrate her. Of course, I would like to reiterate and make it clear that while it is necessary to concentrate on part of the translation or to give a good access to the laws and regulations of foreigners, we also have a growing number of Icelanders who do not have full power in Icelandic languages. So it's more and more about that we have a bigger and larger proportion of civilians that aren't fully self-sufficient, I don't talk about when it comes to more complex things. I think that's what we need to think about. I can inform you that I am thinking about it, and I intend to try to shape ideas and put forth some form of policy in these matters. I can feel it, as in any of the answers to the inquiries I mentioned, that there are many things done there and there is usually a will to do better, but this needs to be thought more objective and uniformly on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u55	A respectable president. I thought it was a good idea at what. A senator is to consider in a formal way some ideas in the direction to follow. I think that everyone wants to go in the same direction, that having more information than memory is the only reason that most languages have the means to do so. Of course, it must be within the framework of some common sense, in the light of financial authority and such. In particular, this is not only a further service to the number of people living here, even Icelandic citizens, who do not have full power in the Icelandic language, but also to provide information for institutions on a website, e.g. information about the ministry rendered. It also increases the efficiency of the system because more often than not, workers in institutions where services are to be used would want to see and have better means to speed up their recovery. I'd say this is a case where everyone wins, if you could say so, so it has to be done. As you can see from the trend, things have changed a lot over the past few years. When they realized how large the Polish community is, they were very pleased with me. I guess it was the first foreign language that agencies began thinking about publishing information. You see, it wasn't English, which is a little interesting. It was often more Polish than English, which was foreground on that subject. But you feel that it is in English and even some northern language. In that light, I want to use this opportunity to highlight the importance of language studies in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u56	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a board of committees on bill to legalize the law of the State's Bankiscation, No. 88/2009, on deck. 880, and I quote the Senate: (Volume 9.) law on the state banking agency states that the Agency will have completed its work within five years of its arrival and will then be brought down to the Agency. Since the time limit laid down in this article has not been established, this bill suggests that paragraph 9. falling away and adding to the law is a provisional principle that the Agency should shut down once its work is completed. Hv. K. But Gylfadóttir Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed as Ásgerður. Under this view, the one that stands here, Óli Björn Kárason, and why. The members of the assembly, Chemur the son of Víglundsson, Bristur the son of Níelsson, Vigdís the daughter of Guðmundsdóttir, Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, and Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u57	A respectable president. As mentioned in the case of what? paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son, I'm on the committee's opinion and, of course, support the progress of the case. However, I wanted to draw attention to the fact that we have been extending to the existence of the Bank County for some time. I think it is long time to take sides with this question: Is there a need for a government agency to keep stock in spite of financial contributions? Even so, it may be appropriate to consider seriously the future arrangement. It is clear that it seems that there is going to be a considerable increase in sales of the State's financial capital over the initial policy. It was supposed to be a temporary arrangement. It was never thought that the state would hold such vast objects in the system for very long, and, of course, the holding part of Iceland's bank will be followed by the development of the bank of the county. I think it's an unnecessary arrangement. There is no need to run an official organisation around holding the banks in possession, or it is really one thing to hold on to stocks and shape some kind of government policy. I think we're going to revise this, especially because I'm afraid of the current government policy that there will be nothing done in the sales of financial companies during this terms. There seems to be no agreement, and prime minister and financial minister are very misleading in their statements. So it would be fine, and I encourage that the future arrangements for these matters will be considered so that we will not be in the long run for the administration of an independent government agency to hold stock.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u58	Mr. President. In this regard, we are the driving force. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson agrees. I am one of those who have spoken about the need not to run a special agency called the State Bank Office, that things can be placed in other ways and perhaps in a more reasonable way. Of course, these are the viewpoints that people must take into account, which are an arm's length when it comes to handling the financial part of the State's property. It just so happens. The current secretary of finance, 2014 or 2015, proposed a proposal for the Council to submit the Agency. This was rejected by the General Assembly, and the then economic and business committee was included. In this respect, the General has expressed his opinion of it, and the majority will be this, at least was, of course, twice in the meantime. However, the Council has expressed his view that this is true, even if it is controversial. I share my opinion. The senator's conclusion that there is no particular evidence for this institution, but more of the Generals, until then, has decided that this institution operates. The main argument I traced here is that there are certain arm lengths that apply, and, of course, they're good.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u59	President. I think we're gonna do what we're gonna do. A senator would agree well on this, and I agree that of course he needs to be careful about the length of his arm. In fact, it would be very helpful for me in general to know about the property of a trust fund in employment or so that we could have an arm length policy and we would have some general arrangement, e.g. With regard to the selection of governments, both that there is a clear government owner's policy in those enterprises as a government fund, but there are also clear rules on how to choose governments, nominees, or some such thing. I think it's all possible to do within the council of that council, but it doesn't necessarily have to do in independent institutions. But you're right about what you're talking about. A senator's concern is that this view is very important and that it be maintained in this context. In terms of Generalis's will, it is true that this was rejected at the time, but there are two elections since, and significant changes have become here in the chamber. In view of the long delay in this massive possession, I feel that it is not unusual to review whether the same views still apply to us as they were four years ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u60	There have been four letters from the minister of foreign affairs requesting an appointment to give a written answer to the following queries: request for this request. 254, about Icelandic citizens in Britain, and about the way in Britain from the European Union, from Valdimarsson Steindídrimson, a question for cover. 443, for the number of workers working on a law-employment project, frá Karl Gauti Hjaltason, a request for cover. 550 for annual reports, frá Óli Birni Kálánson, and for the inquiry. 64, of the EU energy package, Community monitoring agencies and the EEA Convention, frá Óli Birni Kálsson. [[Up front.]] [[Especially...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u61	A respectable president. I recommend a bill for reimbursement to a community service to the public goods of mobilization and other projects. Transporters, along with prominent Jón Jonni Gunnarsson, are Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Njáll Trausti Friðert Friðbertsson, Óli Björn Kárason, Árnason Vilhjálmur, Vilmur Áfur Ágústsson, Guðjón S. Brjánsson, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Ólafur Izlsson, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, and Willum Þórsson. The chapter on goals and values says that the aims of these laws are to support man - made activities and other services of society to the greater good and to encourage them to expand their work or improve their facilities. The exception of the law of these activities is human activities or other activities where the legal functions of the government will be performed. Companies should be reimbursed to the public good money of a valuable tax that they have paid for the construction of workers and other projects aimed at promoting activities or improving the facilities of the organization. Il. a section on applications and conditions of reimbursement, says in Leviticus. ... withauthority of the President's permission: The application for reimbursement of construction and construction costs should be sent to the head of the tax. Remuneration request and follow-up data should be received before starting the procedure. The government tax adviser should decide whether reimbursement criteria are met within 60 days of the completion of all data. In Comb 4. says: The review of the reimbursement of the share of construction and construction costs should meet the following criteria: a. to perform a true servant of the purpose of promoting or improving the activities of the association organization, b. to have a divided budget, and a plan of financing; c. that there is a written confirmation of the local community that the procedure does not meet the legal duties of the local community, d. re-evaluating costs may be available after completion. If conditions 1.mg. It is not permitted to refuse a reimbursement request or, as a result, to recreate the Society or its members. It will be a change in the estimated costs, as assessed by b-joins 1. mg, after the start of the procedure, the taxpayer should send the new budget manager. In III. 5th chapter on reimbursement, 5 / 15 par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: Remuneration accounts for the sum of money as a result of man - made or other projects. Six. says: The government tax manager determines reimbursement under these laws. The decision to reimburse should be based on a revised cost resolution. No later than 12 months after the completion of the work, the tax manager should be sent to report with disintegration of structural costs. The report shall be confirmed by a legal accountant and a government. Remuneration is carried out at the end of the procedure. is fulfilled. From reimbursement, pay and fees should be paid to state and rural society. Seven. says: Reimbursement under these laws is independent of whether your community has been funded by a community or another member to the project. IV. section 8. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: The secretary is permitted to implement a Regulation on the further implementation of these laws, which include: if the implementation of reimbursement is required by this law, the permission of the Minister to postpone reimbursement which may be higher than the financial resources of the General Assembly at any time, the requirements of reimbursement, applications, the payment of applications and the decision to reimburse. It is assumed that the length of this law will be from January 1, 2019, according to Article 9. By permission of the president, the bill's report says: The bill of the same material was submitted to Council 145 (Patient 896) and changed to the 148th legisan Council (599th case) but did not succeed and is now reassigned. The objective of the bill is to support and contribute to the building of members of society for the greater good. It is suggested that a special system of reimbursement be adopted as a student of a merit-employment tax for the construction of workers and other community projects for the greater good. Remuneration is required on the basis of projects that improve the social situation. No reimbursement can occur due to implementation of the government's legal activities. Most of the public welfare companies, such as rescue teams and sports companies, are outside the value of the tax system and therefore do not have a chance of reimburseing tax due to human activities. By means of a reimbursement system, the government fund would provide community support for the greater financial welfare of society in building up a position for its function. Support is practical and simple. An example for reimbursement of the remuneration tax is available, e.g. Because of filmmaking and industrial work in apartment living. The bill suggests a reimbursement of the cost of reimbursement tax due to human activities or other social services to the public. Remuneration requirements must be submitted prior to implementation and will be assessed for whether implementation meets the requirements for reimbursement. The application should include data such as a cost plan, which will help illustrate the size of the job, how funding will be implemented, confirmation of the financier etc. There should also be written confirmation of the local community that human activities and other activities do not fall under the legal obligation of the rural community. If the governor of the people's tax operates under the conditions of the law, he will issue a plea to the Community for reimbursement. Partners are obliged to report changes to the cost programme and provide a review of costs to show the difference between costs. In this case, it is required that, no later than 12 months after the completion of the procedure, an association with a reimbursement group will present a special report with disintegration costs. The report shall be confirmed by a legal accountant and the management of the respective members. Remuneration cannot be performed until completion of construction projects and submissions. A respectable president. The importance of volunteer work in Iceland will be late overrated. I am convinced that its scope is far more than that of other nations. It is somehow united with the national soul in the vital work that has developed here and no doubt a large part of the nation's population living in a large country. If compared with that, the government would have to cover the high costs of the volunteer work in Iceland, the society's savings will no doubt run at billions of dollars. Likely, such a work could never be valued for financial gain. Social activity is supported by various means, by the public, by companies, and by the public. This arrangement further supports the people who perform these vital tasks for further accomplishment. It is part of promoting the activities of such organizations, a large part of it, because most of the time it is that having a house over its activities may be the most difficult group of people in this field, but once these stages are reached, they have shown themselves the importance of the work and how much of the work is often going to be done in the future. By agreeing with the bill presented here by the members of many groups, most members of the council, Generalis's recognition of this important operation, of the important work that they perform without accepting any fee. I suggest that my case, a respectable president, be referred to the Council's Economic and Business Committee. I also emphasize to the committee that it will be considered whether there are opportunities to be allowed to look into projects that are already being carried out despite the regulations of Article 3. The bill. I know it's controversial, but there's work going on with partners where this would really matter and encourage the committee to look beyond that aspect.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u62	Mr. President. The bill we're discussing here, on reimbursement for society's greater good, I think I'll be an example of a bill that can be hoped for, at least In advance, that there should be good relations at the council to resolve. Of course, that's going to go through the needleeye of the Economic and Business Committee and the needleeyes of the other senators here and may change. But as we stand for the bill, we hope that people will look to the purpose. If you see other possibilities for the same purpose, I'd say those who have the bill are more than willing to look into it. We can look to the success we Icelanders have achieved in every aspect of our lives - no matter what we look at. We can look at economic success. We have gained the privilege of being part of the best standard of living nations. We can watch sports in which we stand more than millions of people. We can look to art and culture. This hall does not have to say much about the performance of our country's team in soccer, both men and women, not just the adults of the country so - called, but not the same as the teenage team. We witnessed a few days ago how a new generation of athletes are floundering in the handball field. Some have not had a car test, much less, and have joined the national team, playing the top athletes in the handball field. It was far beyond what I had expected, but it makes you hope that soon we will be back in Icelandic handball. This enables us to cross the course of sports: During golf, Ólafía Þórunn, the Kristinsdóttir of Kristin, has set its mark on international races. We're getting results in free sports, sports, etc. Somehow, when you meet friends and acquaintances from other countries, it is difficult to understand how we have been able to accomplish this in the field of sports, as well as in art and culture. We seem to engage in some form of mass production in artists, whether in literature, art, movies, etc., music, especially. As a pilot went along earlier, the unrecognized part of rescue teams who are doing an amazing work here is an unrecognizable part of the rescue team. His heart stands near him, for I suppose he made a huge contribution to those scales when the rescue forces were united under the umbrella of the land. It is quite clear that the work the rescue workers do each year without being paid in particular save the state, us taxpayers, huge sums of money. Then the other one will not be valued for money when life and limb are saved. In some respects, this bill is some kind of message to these people who are always ready to come and help us when we get in trouble. This is a message to them from us at the Hall of Congress that we are going to say, "Thank you. " It also matters, when it comes to the work of a sports club, that this is not just the question of producing achievement athletes, this is also the question of what kind of training is being done, priceless training, the sports club, and, in fact, other free partners, forgetting my humble old partners in the Boy Scouts. I want, with permission of the highest. President, get to quote the words of Viðar Halldórsson, a professor of sociology at the University of Iceland. He said in a conversation with the ml.is in May last year, word for word: I believe we are experiencing the Golden Age of Icelandic sports. In sports companies, we are reaching both goals that center on achievement, competition, as well as training and social skills. We have a very special form of sports in that we are not breaking up, as is done in virtually every country around us. And Viðar Halldórsson points out that the difference between Iceland and the countries around us is that from abroad, professional societies are those who take the promising kids from the missing communities and put them into a professional organization that is supposed to lead to success in the future. This is not what we do here. I believe that the same can be said about sports companies and the rescue forces, and I am really convinced that their work will never be valued for the money. The unselfish volunteer work of parents and others that come to the point that sports companies will never be valued for the sake of money. And again, this bill is a kind of message from us here: Thank you, we are willing to support the important work you do. We think it's important, and we want to help. We want our joint funds to help you build the work you do. Mr. President. As I said at the outset, we are hoping for the bill to get a sound base. I think I'm pretty sure I am. After this discussion, there is a material treatment. Whether this will change into the council arrangement will become apparent. Of course, there are other ways to go, but we are not so stuck on it. But the aim is clear, and it is to support the activities of members who work for the greater good, work in the field of youth and sports, and rescue teams. I hope that members of Congress will join us in this journey that will benefit all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u63	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss this bill to legalize the reimbursement of community service to the public goods due to mobilization and other projects. Hv. A member of Parliament and 1st Transporter, Jón Gunnarsson, covered the subject and purpose of the bill in his history. The objective is to support human activities and other community activities for the greater good and thus be an encouraging part of the development of the work involved and the possibility of improving their facilities and maintaining their existing activities. A paper with the bill clearly shows that this is the will of the council. Went what? paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason is also well aware of the willingness of the council to promote public good work, especially since the volunteer work is largely available. The report on the bill shows that this subject has been repeatedly submitted before the council. It has been proposed at the last assembly and is now reassigned. Hv. At the 145th Court, a professional health committee presented similar issues. The case has changed some time since then, mainly in the management and development of rural activities, as stated in Article 4. that there should be written confirmation of the local community that the procedure should not be carried out according to the legal duties of the local community. The input of the bill is just the same as the objective, though it has not been accomplished for the rest, as was clearly shown. A pilot. As one report shows, most of the companies involved in the public goods below the set of values that are handled well, such as the rescue forces and sports companies. They are beyond the value tax system, largely excluded from main functions, and therefore do not have a chance of extending taxes against taxes or reimbursement due to mobilization. I can trace this case even further, but I've three-wayly presented a case of the same hurt with a narrower range of values focused on sports and youth society for the same purpose. Of course, the goal toward sports is the prevention factor, to promote prevention. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn, the Kárason of Meria, quoted in his speech to a public talk at the University of Iceland, Viðar son of Halldórsson. He has repeatedly pointed out the importance of organized sports and youth activity in connection with its prevention and prevention value. Of course, there is a very important feature in the matter that we discuss here. The proposal that I originally made at a council in 2013, in the form of a Senate resolution proposed by the then-in-the-Cential Party and Annuity Act, was proposed to hide the highest order. Budget and economic secretary taking into account the valuable tax environment of the sports movement and providing for the General bill to legalize that law. It was twofold, that sports and young people would be excluded from the value of a valuable extra tax from their activities, but the issue of competition involves a degree of conflict at the time of a very important sports event. It must be acknowledged that in the consideration of the why. The Economic and Business Committee made it clear that it is actually reversed and carried out. Of course, the purpose is the same, to promote and respect all the good volunteer work being done by Iceland's sports companies. The second point of the proposal was the factor we're discussing here, the program bill, that athletes and young people have the authority to receive a reimbursed merit tax from the gymnasium in their sports sectors, the workers and the materials. In 2013 this aspect of prevention and building up and the central social role of young people was discussed. The subject was called after a dilation because of the introduction of important childhood and adolescent activities, training and prevention values in Boy Scouts activities, the activities of KFUM&K and other childhood members. At the same time, there was a review of the Alman Good organization of all the unselfish work that is taking place and that has unconvinced social value. The interpretation proposal did not succeed, so the case was reimbursed by the same carriers and grouped in the form of a law bill that included two layers of this material, on the other hand, on the exception and on the reimbursement of workers, reimbursement of the valuable tax. But the purpose and purpose, prevention, is the same, for the advancement of children, youth and youth. The matter already received a positive foundation and evidently also came from sports and young people throughout the country and the organization of these parties. In all, there were 17 reviews of the subject back then. Normal criticism was found from business councils, federal tax managers, and employment organizations on the emphasis on the basic value of the tax system as the income system. It would be contrary to the targets that the system should be, as usual, simple, beneficial, and generally. At the same time, the government covenant of the day was referred to, with a great deal of emphasis on going to work to promote the tax system and simplify it in order to improve its effectiveness. That's always the case. As president of the day. Of course, I cannot help but respect the views that are valid and relevant. However, there are ways and goals that can be considered when there is a conflict. It's inevitable. When it comes to public good work, this issue is not a class of predominantism. They all agree on the value of social work and are willing to promote and support it, as is the objective of the bill we're discussing here, to promote childhood, youth, and youth service as a presupervisive measure. This is very important and undisputed, with many factors involved. When we treasure our social profits, it can save a considerable amount of money than dealing with increased misunderstandings in the tax system. In addition, the application procedure can ensure that there is no increase in complexity or attempt to prevent this from occurring. Mixing the system requires some work and a summary of data and outdoors, but we should be able to have the setting. It's gonna be a job anyway. The Economic and Business Committee. Hv. A senator and head of the Economic and Business Committee, Óli Björn Kárason, covered it right before, and it's important that the committee reviews it on a professional basis and examines all the suggestions and ways and comments that will address the issues involved in these issues. Of course, it is inevitable that the income will work when paying reimbursement tax, but we have to weigh the benefits back. I'm sure it'll be a late estimate for the financial value of a planned child, youth, and youth. However, this is not divided, and it confirms a number of studies, that it greatly reduces the likelihood of any abnormal behavior. The factors involved in a sports job that I consider to be a very important objective in this context are set out in a three - step study at an earlier stage when it was presented. It suggests that youths who do not participate in organized sports activities are more likely to use drugs than those who are active participants in organized activities at social gatherings. The sport has done a lot of research. That's where even the two of them come from. so that when young ones engage in organized work, and it is very important that the work is organized, they have a positive effect on learning results, self - esteem, body image, health, and general feeling. Therefore, social and direct health benefits and the future are likely to be less stressful to the health system as these studies also show that increased exercise reduces the occurrence of serious diseases, leads to fewer lost work hours for the labour market, fewer days of illness, and thus increased production. Of course, it is vital that we look to this benefit. Whether it can be evaluated permanently in crowns is more difficult, but at the same time, we work to keep the application so that it does not steer the valuable tax system. Similarly, a respected president, I have to mention that over the past decades, there has been a truly positive trend in the lives of parents in the activities of young people. It has greatly increased in the field of sports, and it is a positive development. How important it is when parents and the time they spend with their children, who once again have enormous significance when it comes to healthy training children and adolescents! A number of studies confirm that this is particularly important in the community of parents with children and adolescents. So I tell you, we're supposed to look at all the manpower we do, how we feel about them as social centers for organized activity, social status, social status, and the community of parents, children, and teenagers. As I came to know, this case was very positive. From the Alverjar, a third sector organization, it is clear that they want the levels of the proposal to be expanded, that they will not be isolated from sports, but will reach all parties, as suggested by the bill we address here. Then you will realize that it has been in the dough for a long time to complete general social legislation, the third sector. In fact, the third time that we transporters presented this matter to the sports movement, it got better. After a little talk about what? The Economic and Business Committee was given the opinion of all people. Council members of the Committee agreed with a contraband proposal, as the committee suggested to refer the case to the Supreme Court. Governments then made up of two categories, an independent party, and a forwarding party. I'm going to refer to the committee by permission of the president. The following is indicated: The last year, a review of the terms on merit tax and product charges has been made in order to simplify and improve the system's efficiency. Financial and economic ministers ordered a team to do that. The committee suggests that these suggestions will be taken into consideration by the management group. In itself, there have been no details of the situation since that time. I hope that this case has a professional discussion on it. A financial and business committee, which I'm not sure of at all. [[The president calls.]] I'll finish my case, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u64	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson for a fine speech and passage. I also feel that it is proper to keep it in place during this discussion. paritaprevir Willum Þór in this case is very great. In fact, he can be blamed for all of this. The beginning is with him, and I just wanted to thank him for his share. I hope we're going to see some fruit of some long process it's been in. On the other hand, I just want to have a word for it. A senator. As I said in a speech earlier, the ideologies presented in this bill are obviously no way. I think we can agree on that, me and the other. Senator. A person may have noted: " Is it not a better example to introduce some sort of injurative system in the same way that he deals with filmmaking? ' It would be nice to hear a point of view. A senator of that, I'm sure it will be one of the things that will definitely come up with a discussion on the Economic and Business Committee. I'd also like to reiterate that I'm not prepared to sign that this kind of injury really means that the state's funds will be of a great deal of money. They may very well become opportunities for government funds because projects will be attacked, projects that would not be attacked by others. [[The president calls.]] And government and government funds earn money from other factors, e.g. of pay and insurance bills.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u65	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator and president of the Economic and Business Committee are very much concerned with the questions and counter-sponsored and positive words. We've been over this, me and what. A senator, a lot over the years, and in both ways, these goals that conflict. We both talked about it in our speeches, me and what. A senator, on the one hand of the tax system and the support we would like to provide for the greater good, as shown in the bill. I think it's very important for me to have a good time. The Economic and Business Committee, as it were. A senator takes the lead if all possible options are considered. Hv. A senator mentioned filmmaking. We have a recent example, which was in the contraband that the publication should be examined. There was a different route than the proposed reimbursement of the cost tax, reimbursement of expenses. It is a special committee that reviews all documents, and it is tried to ensure the application. It is important to examine all the ways that have been taken from the very way in which we examine the support we receive in view of the fact that our tax system becomes as efficient as possible, transparent, and simplified. I'd also like to introduce to you this case is in full harmony with what is stated in the Constitution to promote sports, youth and aging, and to examine the use of economic incentives to promote human health.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u66	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. When you see a bill's donation, people go to town to point out a number of things that need to be checked. One reason that there may be trouble with the handling of this case is that there is no legal definition of what a community is considered to be for the greater good. We have a problem. Now there are precedents, including in the income tax laws, where the head of the government can define certain societies as public interest companies. That may not be clear enough. We need to consider this and have been working on a bill on definition and what community requirements must be met to identify members of the public. I wonder what. A senator believes that in the treatment of the bill in the Economic and Business Committee and in the discussions here and later, members of the Parliament may consider more of the bill, making this more tighter, such as Just us athletes to begin with, sports companies and rescue teams, and keep it completely out of control, but with the preordain and policy and the intent that we want to expand it according to what we will experience if we experience the fulfillment of these good things.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u67	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason responds. I'm glad to hear it, and maybe it's not a surprise to the Chairman of it. Economic and business committees are already considering the professional coverage to take place. I made it clear in my speech that the bill has long been in preparation, but it has not been achieved to complete the definition of social activity for the general public. Since the work of an athlete is fully defined against the tax, it is easier to go in there. But I think if the set of values should be what is suggested in the bill, which is actually positive -- just response to a discussion about the years ahead and natural progress - we need to look at this definition of the IRS, at least. I suppose that's what it is. The Economic and Business Committee will consider this. Of course, it is often wise to start at a slower pace, see the way in which it will be selected, whether it is the way here or not. Something else that came out of the question. A pilot is the time. There's been some expectations now. Once we have presented this matter at the council, certain expectations have developed and projects have begun in many places, so all of this needs to be examined. I want to reiterate at the end, a respectable president, that I feel that the will in this matter is reflected in a very strong degree. [[The president calls.]] Let's hope we can take it further now than ever before.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u68	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the talk and has to admit that I missed the talk. That's why I'm taking this opportunity to ask why. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, one of the carriers, only further into this bill. I'd like to start by saying I'm very into what I've often called the Third Sector, i.e. a general group of members. I'm very much in favor of public members working closely with such organizations, and I think we often achieve much more results for less costs. That's why I think the idea behind this bill is pretty good. I'd like to, though, because we in this hall are also expected to look to the advantage, to ask specific questions. The exception of these laws is referred to as an act of man - made design or other projects in which the legal functions of the public will be performed. So I wondered: " Am I somehow limiting my investments in gymnasiums that might also be used by basics? Now it is often that basic schools negotiate with sports companies to make partial use of the situation. The same could really be true of another form of leisure activity, which could be classified as a legal member of the rural community from childhood law. Then I wondered, " Could the motivation be negative in the sense that it is rather an incentive to go constantly in building a house? ' In business like this, I often feel that we place too much emphasis on it and that it lacks money to run the business itself. Wait a minute. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson to go over it with me. Maybe I'm confused. There may be some catalyst, which may not necessarily be positive, i.e. In terms of increased cooperation, in particular, I picture the cooperation of rural partners and various members of society who are taking on very important and important matters in the field of youth. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u69	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Haraldsdóttir for answer and very good questions. These are all questions that have been raised in the past few years. I tore that story into my speech. The co-efficiency thing, and the rural society, it's a complex phase. The matter has improved over the years, as would like to be discussed at councils and committees. C-St. 4. The bill is trying to get close to the point involved in rural society, which says that written confirmation of the local community is required that the implementation of the procedure does not meet the legal duties of rural society. That's what I'm talking about. A senator came in. This can be negative in those situations where it is combined and is not necessarily needed to build two houses or two farms or two social centers. There is certainly something that needs to be considered, if the management system cannot be assured, as it means that the force for integration does not expire, this economic motivation. At the same time, I went in there before answering the question. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason says in a government contract not to use economic motivation to promote human health, prevention and public welfare.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. Perhaps it is the most important factor I am concerned about. As a matter of fact, I've wondered before if we should be more positive in paying back a valuable tax to our country society. Is it normal for rural society to have a legal service, and that makes it a source of income for the state at the same time that we are constantly discussing income exchange between state and rural society? At any rate, I think there is good reason for us to wonder exactly about whether a reimbursement of merit tax due to performance and development of community important buildings should be fully reimbursed, whether it was a rural society or a free partner organisation and in some case perhaps the cooperation projects of these bodies. I think we should look at it. I'm well aware of the state level, and in my community, we've talked about some sort of Communist house, I'm taking it out of Scandinavian, some local community center. My experience is that there is an enormous amount of real estate in the rural community. It is often one of the most expensive business enterprises in the community, but it is used in a very limited time. I am convinced that we could use the public property much better and more if there was more use right from the start. I feel that it is more often our job in our rural society to try to talk a unique group of members into working together and making common housing or using community housing. This is not to say that it is not important, often they have to build their own and their functions, so I understand this thought, as I said before, and I agree that we have to be very supportive of a free society and what they do to the public good and could do much better. But I again wondered, " Is it just a reason to look at additional remunerations of my country tax in terms of important constructions to the public? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u71	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir This important question is true of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir. As a result, methodology often becomes stronger than the goals we are trying to achieve by means of law or new laws. In this case, I feel that filming is appropriate. A senator paints a very clear picture of this relationship between free society, state, and rural society and the importance of interpolation. Then it ends in some way as to how the cost shifts should be and who can be used, instead of looking at the goals of building and what we are going to achieve by going that way. This may be the subject of why. The Economic and Business Committee is simply an opportunity to rethink this and first consider the purpose of this, as I was considering in my speech. Many positive things have been happening. If we look e.g. In the sports sector, people are cracked in many parts of the world. Young people are practicing until midnight, which is hardly a matter of course. In addition, there is something very positive about public health development, the emphasis on older citizens' movement. They need to find out too. And what monuments will they use? The objective is always the same, whether of a state, a community, a government agency, or a free organization. We're supposed to focus on it first, and then we're supposed to draw up the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u72	A respectable president. I come here very briefly to express a solid support for this bill's objective, a bill for reimbursement to a community organization for the sake of mobilization and other projects. Transporters have already done well with the objective of the bill and the importance of just looking at its goals and rule out no means of exporting. The ability to change in so many ways in communities, e.g. In sports, it is sufficient to mention the cooperation between sports and rural teams all over the country less than 20 years ago in order to set up kick fields. There was no small revolution. Many important points have already been made in the discussion. has been pointed out that the bill is fully in line with the government's administration covenant, with a high priority for the translation of public good organizations in many areas in the community; in prevention, in human health, in the culture of people and countries, as we can say. Since then, the need for e.g. Athletes. I don't know if there's any summary of it, but in many places where I go, it's just building up. Athletes are cracked, so the oldest children in high school have time in their gymnasiums until midnight. Perhaps we could change that rather than change the clock. And there is a need for a number of kinds of athletes, e.g. Outside the building, building, and then the rescue crews, and so on. Likewise, it is important to look at our goal rather than the way we use it to favor those who want to do this variety of work. Is that a reimbursement? Is it directly related to the valuable tax, or is it any more suitable? It has also been noted that many exports have actually resulted in increases in the income of the state budget, not losing out on such projects. Then I'd like to come in for about a second ago. a year I had a conversation with the highest. Special Affairs Minister on segregation of the Public Safety Organization. There has been a considerable effort over the years to see if there is a law on what falls under a public community. This has proved to be quite complicated, and there is probably one of the reasons to review the bill. With regard to work already done, there have been Emerging action to these partners, including the U.S. The use of enterprises which are permitted to protect such organizations was increased from 0.5% to 0.75% and is the exception of their fiscal tax stocks. Similarly, the genetic tax of donors to such organizations has been canceled. It is important to examine just how the organization in this regard was organized. I got it. I got it. The Economic and Business Committee to look wide and at the overall context in this. It may well be appropriate, as mentioned above, to start at a narrow start with the possibility of further expanding the definition if successful implementation is successful. As mentioned earlier, I give clear support to the goal of the bill, which is to support man - made activities and other social activities to the public and to encourage them to expand their work or improve their facilities. The exception of the law of these activities is human activities or other activities where the legal functions of the government will be performed. Here again, as it has also been in our discussion, I stress that in the treatment of the matter, the objective, not the possible complications, will be looked at, trying to sort it out as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u73	Mr. President. I'm also going to speak briefly. The good news has been handled well, and, like others, I begin to express support for it. There have also been some difficult times to overcome. This caught my attention - because the bill has been presented twice before, on the part of a professional committee, and the second time by members of Congress - that there was only one report on the matter. In fact, she came from my hometown, where it was celebrated. I'm going to hope that the person involved who could live here who accepts such reimbursement will express his opinion by sending in reviews on the matter. It also caught my attention that the governor decided not to dismiss the matter. I personally presented a case that concerned reimbursement tax because of specialized sports equipment for disabled persons. There, the governor had strong opinions. As we know, it is usually so that the head of the head of the tax wants to give which most of the credits are worth, which are understandable because they can somehow interfere with the system. But I find this interesting because there is probably a lot more money than I ever meant on the subject I presented. Maybe I'll try again. This is important to the very few individuals who are concerned about it, since such equipment is often expensive. V.I.A. has been observed at P-T.4. Okay, OK. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir did well, and they were. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson went over that my rural society may develop a sense of reason in making use of things together. On top of the lack of proper definition of public goods, it may prove to be a question of how we achieve it. As people have said, we all support the purpose. It is painful if he is not able to succeed because we cannot define those to whom we want to reach. I agree with what's been said, to film the past, the value of partnerships, and what we're getting out of free partnerships, how much they matter in our society in many ways, whether it's unsalaried rescue groups or other organizations, which I sometimes don't know what we would do without. It's important to try to overcome the definition. The bill may not look to the setting up, as was the case with the oar. The members of Willum Þór Thor Þórsson and Óli Björn Kárason, by canceling the valuable tax, that he should return to the state in some other way. As we have often discussed, social workers will never be valued for financial gain. To be sure, if buildings start out that would not start, they will return something in a government fund. But this has not been costly and very difficult to do because the need is not directly indicated in the bill, or the extent of what we were talking about. We know of something, but it's all pretty vague. I'll support the bill, but we can't give up that if we just give up here, they'll come back to the state in some other way. More people have held on to huge matters in this hall, saying that this is not a government money loss because it takes a lot of money back in. Away from that, I think it's something we're supposed to finance and feel it leads to it. It is well explained what the community needs to do, and this has to happen before they go into action, etc., that can't be followed. I think that's a good idea. I'm sure we're very much loved by a union of unions, the people of the country. We enjoy the fruitage, as has been attributed to our children. It is therefore not unusual to come in an indirect way. I'm not gonna have any more of my words. I think it's interesting, and I hope that there's a solution to the baits that have been mentioned. I second that I hope we have some good comments on the subject. It's important if we're going to solve the definition problem that I think is most likely to exist. It will also be interesting to see the government tax adviser's comments and how he handles the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u74	V.E.G. President. I don't really know if I can call this an answer, but I want to start by thanking you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for her speech and support of the case and intend to join her. A senator explains the importance of receiving criticism of the matter when it comes to taxing. At the same time, I would like to make a point because I reviewed it in my speech that the case had previously been presented in a more complex field, with a government tax manager sending in a review. In fact, the matter was also about promoting a country's volunteer work as well as a source of high - quality supplementation for sports companies. The fund - raise of volunteers and parents around sports events, when we take all the classes and departments, is running on more than the maximum amount of money. In this case, worth tax numbers must be recorded and reports submitted. This may not necessarily be what the parents are prepared for when they are trying to finance the business and the trips and all the items that follow. I have been reminded that the government tax manager has turned in the reports on this matter and the employment and business councils pointed to these baits against the tax system. I agree with that. How important it is that we obtain such comments when we find the way!
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u75	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Yeah, right. I remember this case. Senator. I suppose that was the same time I put my case in order to reimburse money for disabled persons. It's a big package, or it can be. As I said before, we don't know anything about it. We do not know exactly who the need is or who would take advantage of it. It was mentioned here that it would not be built. Of course, colleagues always need housing, most of them on the larger side, who would possibly take advantage of this, but they would also need to be able to finance it, even if they were to receive this 25% reimbursement. Of course, it is of utmost importance. I just agree with what. A senator in that it is burdensome for parents, who are often cognizant as dog skins to try to store up for the various events that children are involved in, to maintain a worthwhile taxation duty in this context. That's why it's very good for you to come up with reviews. I'm worried that the governor will criticize this and say it's impossible, like he did with my case. I also think it is important that we get reviews from those who think they would use it and otherwise not be able to get started on a building that may be extremely necessary to continue their work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u76	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for that answer. It may be said that we are dwelling on the important things that will be taken into consideration. The Economic and Business Committee. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. A member of Parliament, it is important that those who may come to take advantage of this not only have a positive attitude but also have a discussion of how it will come to be useful and what other ways might be possible. As we know, and I came into my speech, we recently agreed here on a bill to correct a publication in which the plans for reimbursement of merit tax and take into account the effectiveness of the valuable tax system and provide a specific way of reimburseing the costs assigned to a special committee, receiving bills and applications. I think it's a job anyway. The Economic and Business Committee to review all available routes from the sources, both those who are able to get into construction and maintenance, and then, of course, from those who can point out or criticize the fact that we are in some way too close to the value of the tax system or make it less obligatory.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u77	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson for the answer. I agree that it may be important, in view of the reactions the governor has made to us in some matters, to look at other ways. It is also important that reporters, and those involved, show the interest in bringing in the references as well as with the ideas of others other than just this one, if we can expect that the cost of taxation will not be a simple procedure, as agreed regarding the publication. I'm sure you can do this with a certain amount of money in the frame of budgets, where some committee will evaluate and review these public interest companies and other things, regardless of how the definition of them ends. This is one of the matters I think a body of Congress can combine to settle, and it is very important to many people, in many ways. I encourage members of the committee to review this carefully and press after they are sent a plea that might apply to the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u78	A respectable president. I recommend a bill on the decline of election age for 16 years in the election to the government. I will not go so far as to read all the details involved. I'm not even going to read the whole list of importers, but I have to mention that we are 21 members of the case, which I don't understand, but that's pretty good. A third of the U.S. Congress presents a case involving a decline in the election age that centers not only on making a young person's voice to influence society but also on how he or she will act toward the decision - making process to the extent that we as older ones are. It will be good to start such changes in the unit management phase, and there are probably few who know rural issues better than the group in question. This matter is not entirely unmistakably unknown to the council. We discussed this at the last legislature, for almost ten hours, in fact, so the Senate has had much to say. For example, consider 1st paragraph. The bill that calls for the actual decline of age was adopted in 2nd. just under a year with 43 votes, one vote against and nine helmets. A year ago, therefore, the matter was highly supported, but it was not completed because there was too short an election at that time. Two months was the election when we discussed this matter last time. There are now three years, so, in the opinion of the above, there is no basis for putting aside the changes in this council and then going on to the work it takes to make progress. Ideas of the decline in election age from 18 years to 16 are not new. Its case has been presented at the 133th legislature - it is 11 or 12 years since such a case came here first - and is part of the concern that political people have of a democratic interest in young people and the general concern of how to secure diversity in which decisions are made regarding society. We may have more experience in discussing gender in this context, but age is also important. We have a different view of the world, depending on the life span we live in. So I witness in the new report of the International Parliament, when surveyed by the General Assembly of the Peoples, that only 2.2% of members of Congress are in their 30's. Here are the northern countries that are somewhat different, as you would like to be. Norway is number one with 13.6% of members of Congress under 30 and Sweden in second with 12.3%. Iceland, on the other hand, is out of order. After the last election, there were three senators under 30 years of age, but as they were growing older, there is now only one remaining. If we look at it in a percentage, it's 1.6% of senators under 30. It's below the world average. That's pretty clean, so it's not fixed. We are not as bad as the World Assembly that has no senator under 30, one in three of the world. We will, however, succeed if, as we do today, this chosen period runs its end, and the last senator under 30 is nearing his 30's. Then we'll protect one of the bottom chairs on the list. On the other hand, now we are in the room with a young man who is splattered by a lipist. paritaprevir The Bjartur Chief Aðalbjörnsson, who temporarily gets us over a global average, which shows what this is in a way a manageable problem. The reduction in election age is no magic solution to it. This is one of the things we need to look at, to increase the interest people have in sharing in the democratic procedure with us in it. However, research shows that if a first campaign is successful and people feel that they reap according to expectations and experience positive experiences because they participate, they are more likely to remain active voters. Such changes can have a positive effect on the composition of the synagogue. We call in the report an experimental project carried out in Norway sometime after the year 2000, where election age was reduced to 16 years in 20 rural governments before election. As a result, the rural groups became rapidly multiplied to an age range of 18 in their 18◯24 years. This was not merely because of the fall of such ones but because political powers respond unconsciously even to the audience in the community. There are also some other countries. Austria was the first country to take that step. It was in 2007 when an election age was reduced to 16 years in all elections, but the average age continued to be 18 years, as this bill suggests. In 2014, an experiment was made in the decline of election age to the national law of Scotland's independence, which seemed to be successful in reducing age in general in Scottish elections shortly thereafter. Then there is the latest development that leads us to Estonia and Malta. In 2014, the Maltese agreed to turn down the election age for local elections, which went on a year later and adopted on spring days 2018, about the time we covered this matter last, to reduce the entire election age for 16 years. The Estonian Parliament dropped an election age in 2015, and this was chosen for the first time in 2017. These examples show that the level of government that, as I mentioned, has often begun in the United States to perform the services that are next available to young people. But in addition, in our case, it is, in our case, legalistically simpler to approach that assignment. In order to reduce the election age in general at all elections, the Constitution would need to be adopted at one council. A new election was held, and then it was approved again by another council. Here we can take this step and see if we want to take it for president and general elections. The election participation of young people has been considered for quite a long time here. Since 1983 the Icelandic election study has meant that participation in people in general is reducing, and especially those in the younger age groups. However, we did not have official measurements of it until the 2014 election. They have shown what the campaign study indicated, that in the younger age groups, it is a preferred visit lower than in those who are getting older and older. At the same time, there have been things that have been done to stimulate our participation. I mention one example of the campaign # I'm a cypress who reaches into every school in the country and has shown good results. In fact, it is estimated that the average age-to-old application in such measurements is to be equal, let's say. The youngest groups are taking over. This has helped to strengthen people's interest in participation. In the context of # I've also been investigated among high school students as to what it is that makes people vote, what makes young people vote. In particular, there are three things that stand out. First, the availability of politics and political information increased. Second, political education at all schools and third, more respect for adults toward young people. These are the points that also appeared in countless sources of information that turned up business to the management and monitoring committees last year. These are indications that we should take seriously, not only in the case of the case but also in the way we handle our ministry, how we deal with our clients in the community. One of the scenes is something that would have to be considered specifically if this bill became a law, and that is democracy. Its importance at all schools will be unappreciative, but there seems to be some fault when it comes to all students receiving the same instruction or as well. This requires effort, whether by formal study or by increasing the support of Obscurial elections and projects such as # I am grateful or support for other democratic activities within the walls of the school, such as # I am grateful or support to other democratic activities, such as Students. Democracy is not something we learn but something we do. This is a trade program, a mine that we need to help our children develop by growing up, for example. In democratic educational institutions. In the year when the United Nations Children's covenant is near at 30 years of age, it may be all right. Of course, the children's covenant requires that we listen to all children, not only to listen but also to listen, to do what they have to do to us. There is something that is going well or that is successful in politics and that is not just the cause of their younger ones'complaint but that there are many groups that do not have the truthfulness of the World Council. It is a question of whether this type of change, in which two-year-old law - abiding persons become voters, will become active participants in the democratic process, which in that case bring people into rural governments, would be more likely to do the listening that should take place between politicians and children. Then we come to what is the greatest benefit of getting a new and fresh group of voters to the voters, which is the benefit of politics and the way we build society. In fact, in recent years it has been observed that, contrary to what the gnat says, young people have a greater interest in politics, but they get out of the way in which we are to get used to it. We can mention all the social media revolutions that have taken place in recent years and that have taken the lead in changing society. It is a force that traditional politics also need if they are not to dry up in the future. So, yes, it's certainly good for new groups to get voters, but it's still better for democracy itself to get more voices at the table. As I mentioned a year ago, the case was covered by a board of directors and board of directors. This report is explained in a paper report so that I'm not going to reenact it, but there was one change from a greater part of the management and monitoring committee and was approved in a chamber on spring days 2018. It's been recorded in the bill, and it's about the connection between vote and vote. There were too many complications, too many questions, if individuals who do not have authority or authority, such as 16 and 17 years of age, could become part of rural governments. So here it is suggested that the right to vote is moving down to 16 years, but the right to be elected for 18 years. The talk at the Board of Directors and Control Committee was pretty good for me, and I'm sure the members of the Committee can quote it in subsequent talks today. There was some emphasis on the factors I've mentioned, for example. Since a campaign program is learned behavior, we need to build more into the school system to participate in democracy there. And then, as I think that there is perhaps one of the basics, the importance of education, which today is not specific on the part of the government and needs to be improved. The last time the case was discussed, there may have been a better way of thinking, if all the ages, all the barriers that people get over were in the same year, if it wasn't to complicate their lives to get votes at age 16 but not to be elected until they were 18. There are other milestones to meet on other birthdays. It is good to remember that law, being an adult by law, and an election age has not studied since 1997. In this country, this has been the longest of its separation. I sometimes wondered if it was the same age as this is part of the reason why politicians are having trouble adopting the view of the children's covenant that we should listen to children in our jobs, since there is the same limit between being an adult and being a child and being a direct member of the elected representatives. I think it would just be good for us to tear this apart, to rock that line. We need to cultivate new practices. Mr. President. I don't think I have a lot more words. I think it's important. It's a little basic. The point emphasizes that youths are on the front team of new ideas. That is why it is so important that youths receive the powerful tool of the election in order to influence political affairs and thus improve the society they will inherit.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u79	Mr. President. I come up to answer because I can't get a speech. I have to go and get my kids, but I wanted to come up and thank you very much for getting back on the case. I would say that it was a major step, a fundamental step in democracies in Western countries, to let 16 - year - olds into their polls. One report on the committee noted that in the history of democracy, mankind has often been linked that if you are taxated, if the State is paying taxes, you should have something to say about the tax. This was one of the basic elements of American independence at the time, if we are not allowed to make a government decision, not get to the legislature in our states, etc. I don't think it's right that you tax us. Was it not the slogan: No taxation with out-regression? No taxation without being retorted? I made it up. I think it's today's English word, by permission of the President. I wanted to thank you for this, and I'd put them together that this case was in the 3rd district. I've had a whole day, one eight hours, of course, divided for two days, for about three days. It was on the final meters. The case had just been changed to a board of administration and surveillance where I sat and followed the case with urgency. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, Otttar's son Proppér, who was chairman of the case, so I guess the case is going to go through well. We're recently, as I say, last spring, we've crossed all the scenes, we've approved the changes that have entered the bill. I think all members of Congress, remind me, there may have been some in yellow, but almost all members of the council voted with that change so that I would congratulate the Senate and thank them again for being allowed to participate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u80	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his warm words and thank him for the support he shows the case by being involved in it. He mentioned the connection between taxation and rights. This is such a fine example of how we can get things out from many different viewpoints, since there are a lot of such changes that recommend, but there are many differences in how we are introduced. Rather, I feel that this is the question of growing youths into politics - yes, I'm not going to say that we disagree. [[That's where I agree, too.]] However, the children's covenant says that we should take into account children's opinions in line with their maturity, which means that this will get up. At some point it may be possible to set a line, here is suggested 16 years, since it is how much we listen to them that they get stepped up in our formality. Because the senator mentioned votes in March 2018, it is reasonable that nearly all members of the council would support this matter in one way or another. We had a vote for the transition that 43 senators supported, but then we had two adjustment proposals for the delay of validation. If we view those members of Congress who supported the adjustment in their proposals as supporting the main objective of the bill, then this bill was supported by all but one member of Congress. So I agree with the senator, thinking that we can be quite optimistic and break up our sleeves into the spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u81	A respectable president. I come up here to agree with this and to celebrate the fact that it is now. We had a little trouble in spring and a slight fear of agreeing with it and walking all the way. This may have been because the envelopes of some community members and members were being signed in because they were so brief for elections. I think the basis for this is both instruction and preparation, but now we have three very important years. This has been a matter for a long time, i.e. a reduction in election age, supported by the advance team and followed by the Americas' Fage. I was, for example. looking for data and finding support - this appears first in 1976 and was very supportive of reducing the age to 18 years. We've been encouraged by our juvenile movement on this end, and there's only so much that supports it, we're always heading this way. The children's covenant contains very wide-spector rights, such as says about freedom to partner, opinion, expression and religious freedom and aims to put children on a table for decision making in their lives. It's so good to get started in the very community, because participation in society is extremely important. This is the closer society that children begin to participate first, everything involved in their sports affairs, and other relevant association. They have to get to that level, and they have, as it were, now in the juvenile councils that are active in many parts of the country in most rural areas. Over the years, it has been an active part of most people, and it has made it possible for them to offer both suggestions and suggestions that others may not notice. I think it also matters when it comes to other elections, whether to the General or to the President. Democracy participation is learned behavior, and then it's a good school for that. We've reviewed the reviews received last year and most of us have agreed, especially from juvenile movements, e.g. The relationship between Icelandic high school students who have discussed the bill and consider it to be a very positive correction for young people. They have walked by, or as was meant before, e.g. Obscurial elections, which were a great part of the campaign election. People who watched it were very happy about it, including the kids themselves, and as did those watching them. I think it's important that we start somewhere. We should always be expanding our freedom to have opinions and influence. First, we had only men over 40 years of age, and in particular, they had to have something. Women were allowed to join if they were precontinent and then gradually. I think it's only natural that those who participate in society - 16 - year - olds who are paying taxes may influence the way society works. I think education is also important and that we use the time of the next election to prepare and aim for young people to be given this instruction. There was a little panic, too, a man, last year with how to bring in those who were in favor, how they would influence the youth and teachers, pointed out that this could lead to the appearance of election propaganda in the schools. I think, with a concerted effort, it can be prevented. Since the children receive booklets to their home and community media, the school must be an exception. I wanted to come up here to accept this matter and celebrate it. I hope the case goes through. We will have time before the next district election to prepare for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u82	A respectable president. Since the senator mentioned the development of the election, I just wanted to say that in 1915, when women received a vote and part of the men who had not had it before, the percentage of the population of those who were registered was estimated to be about 15% into about 30%. Thereafter, the ratio has increased progressively. During that time, the age of elections was 25 years, declined in steps to 21, 20, and finally 18 in 1984, with a ratio of 75%. Thus, the program has become a far better reflection of the nation than it did at the time. This little addition we're discussing here is just a continuation of the trend that I think is of the good. I must agree with what the senator mentions with encouragement from the young men themselves. It is a natural variety of people, such as all other non - Witness youths - not just the youths'political movements but also the National Society of Youth, a society of young people, the masses of many in the community - call for this and have encouraged us along the way. We need to listen to the call. But we also need to strengthen this organization so that they can continue to play a vital role. This is where local youth councils were called. It is of interest to note that the rural communities that are the most positive in their comments about these changes, as they appeared a year ago, are just the most effective youth advice to be heard. [[The president calls.]] I can think of a country club called Hornfjordur, who now owns a representative in the gym.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u83	A respectable president. I'll just agree with it, it's important. I worked in a rural society west of Bolungarvík before I arrived here at the council, and frequently the kids from the schools came with their ideas. I remember a seven-year-old who brought a drawing of a water court that has become a reality in Bolungarvík. It was for this boy's initiative now into his campaign year and may be elected by the General election. It all matters, and I think that when young people feel that they have this effect, they begin to pay more attention to society, what is happening around them, whether or how they can have an important influence. I'm not gonna talk about it if they're involved, but they're gonna come up with an opinion about it sooner.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u84	President. In itself, I'm not going to go into this material situation. As has been observed in many whales. Those who have taken up an enormous amount of discussion during the last assembly, so that we have quite an opportunity to reason, reason along and over, and collect the funds. Then you could see why. The management board was very well informed about the situation, took to heart the number of guests, listened to different viewpoints, and took into account some of them. So we have a good reason to resolve matters. What I wanted to emphasize in my case, though there are others here. Councilmen come into it, because with contributions now, one of the loudest arguments against the approved bill last year is that too short a time for the county elections. We talked about it, and I'm sorry to see that at this discussion, there are not many people who took part in criticizing the bill back then but who think that I'm going to reiterate my position here in a lock, because I think I know that the interested people about this will read this discussion with great interest, that the time was too tight. Nevertheless, we who thought it was proper to agree with the bill did show a certain understanding that this might be the main problem. So it went as it went. Just because of the criticism that came at that time, I feel that it will be so important that it will be well paid off now and that it will be done by this council. Then, people with machines, come to the next district election, as good a time as possible to prepare themselves; the Ministry of Education with the instruction that has been normally called after it has been made and it has to be done, rural governments around the country, the Ministry of Justice comes to all elections, etc., that I do not speak of the bodies and bodies that work with young people. So now is the time to accept such changes, and I hope that the critics of last year's time card will at least see that it is not just now but is directly reversed and that it has become an advantage. Certainly, there are members of the council who simply opposed the change. It's just an honest attitude. I do not insist that all people agree with me on all matters. We will take that up with the discussion, both inside and outside. At the time, we can save a great deal of it in terms of the timer and that I don't really talk about it that we've talked about it a little bit. Well, my knowledge is that it's almost far enough that you can just vote on it. I admit that I may be a little bit talking on a lighter side, but I hope it will be good and material. At some point, however, we simply have to vote and that they fall here according to our views. I can't wait to take part in work without it. The management and monitoring committee on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u85	Mr. President. I come here to express my joy that the bill has been held at the council. I'd also like to use this opportunity to thank a special merchant for reinvesting the situation. But as much as I would like to thank the chairman of the case at the last council, when the matter was last discussed, for my persistence. I think it's time for us to get it done quickly and carefully. I don't think there is any need for a general variety of topics, including a detailed report and a detailed discussion on the subject. But I want to point out this point: I don't think it's important to turn down an election age simply because it's important for young people to participate in political activities and because a 16 - year - old has grown up well enough to do so, and the right to do it in stages, as well as because they are always growing old. Older ones are growing at the expense of younger ones. That is why it is important that we add to it so that we do not get into trouble. Of course, they should listen to the voices of the older ones, but the system should not be that the older ones always decide everything for the younger ones. Now's the time. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé began to realize that there is no question here, but I abused my position to promote these general views. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u86	President. Thank you. A senator's meditation was good. I also thank warm words to me. All of us have done all of this well - I'm so used to it that it's better than good from my schooling - under the leadership of a man. Chairman of the Board of Directors and Control Committee. All I see is that we should be able to work fast and well on this matter. I couldn't agree more. A senator with regard to the importance of looking at the national age. So I now allow myself to go out of this exact thing, then last week it was that demographic changes in the UK made that if a term by age category had fallen then as if they fell into the Bgret election had become more part of the Bgrets. It's just because young people were voters, so many times over in those days. This may be one example of a failure to listen to the voices of young people, the people who have to live the longest of their decisions, but they may not be able to escape the decision - making process. I wholeheartedly express myself agree with good thoughts at times. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u87	Mr. President. I'm celebrating the donation of this bill today. It's a very important matter. I also welcome the loving discussion that takes place between members of the council on this Thursday afternoon, on another dark day in the history of the council. It's a nice time to be here where people don't save their compliments. I would like to agree with and commend the 1st traveller for keeping the case alive, commending those who have spoken, commending those who are partners, and thanking the good work of a management and monitoring committee at the last council when the case was taken care of. I would also like to commend visitors who would appear before the committee then and present themselves, for all the work being done on the council is no less important at the council, i.e. that those who think of matters, those who know, have direct interests, or are more indirect to watch, to appear before the council committees, and to inform us of anything. That is exactly what happened during the last assembly. There was a very good discussion, but the reason why the matter did not work out was some sort of coolness at the council, which was created so that it could not be dealt with without waiting for the matter. The discussion that took place also led to the development of the bill with the change that was set on the committee, i.e. that in order to be elected to rural governments, a person should be legal. The discussion was very good because it was considered unfortunate that a person was elected as an agent who would not really have legal authority or authority, and the person would need his attorney to come in and sign documents at such times. It wasn't available. In my opinion, the regional government is exemplary in starting such democracies because of the closeness of the individual environment in the countryside. Often, it has been said that matters should not be handled without a subject, nothing about us without us, have been discussed in many social groups. I think that's exactly what this large group of young people are doing by the law, doing the bill, getting a vote from the age of 16. I agree with what was presented in the case of the Steindór. Valdimarsson Just before, the nation is getting older, so it is good for us to respond by making sure that young people have strong enough voice. I think that's a very good argument. But we must not let our guard down and think that this work is done just by the idea that the bill is submitted again, because there were some voices in the councilroom that thought it was the greatest delirium, that the blessing of the children would be paid for the nasty political debate that took place around elections. So I disagree completely. To say, honestly, it would be great and national action if we were to begin immediately at a nursery school to train our children, both in reasoning and democracy, that we introduced to our children right away in their preschools how important it is to be able to reason on their own issues, to be able to explain why you want A or B, and even to vote for A or B, etc. I know this is already being practiced in one nursery in the capital area. It allows the children every two weeks to vote for two dishes offered for lunch during the week. These give the children the opportunity from the age of two to choose between whether they will receive spaghetti or meatballs. You can imagine that the first few months and even the years will not be particularly complicated to the vote. I suppose it's often because it's only to me or because it's good to me. But if your child is trained in reasoning, he or she will always come back to more active and socially conscious individuals. I don't think we should worry that the country's young people are going to be harmed by being informed that in Iceland the political community has the goal of promoting the interests of the public. In spite of everything and despite the special position we are in today's conference and have been in, I believe that the work of political parties and political parties is somehow trying to benefit society, for the common people, even though the emphasis and perspective of representatives and supporters of certain political parties are different. There is one thing that I would like to say finally in my ramification, and it is that we must remember in our discussion that pressure the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Justice to dress in a dress when it comes to education for new voters and whether it is new voters whose age is choosing for the first time or for the sake of citizens' rights or transport to the country. That education has been in the form of a complete defection, and it is not to our credit. So I will, along with it, work very hard that we will promote any kind of education for new voters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u88	A respectable president. Hv. A member of the council began his talk with a big compliment. I'd like to commend her and thank her for the work being done on this case a year ago on a board of directors and patrols. It is true that the senator says, on a dark day like this, when we do not know exactly how we should feel at work, it is a good thing to have one of these matters that we are dealing with, like 21 members, which is about the fundamental change in society to reform and which we know before a year of support for 43 senators in a chamber, a case of great reconciliation on a committee, which took an adjustment in which a different viewpoint was made. Although sometimes the days are dark, this matter can crystallize what it can be like. The changes made by the management and monitoring committee were improved. This is something we discussed in 1st. A year ago, which was then identified as a change in the committee's discussion, separating elections and election years, which I see in the new report of the International Assembly, which I mentioned in my introduction that is actually the general rule of the world. It says that 65% of the cases are rated older than the U.S. National Reelection Court. [[The president calls.]] The separation between the milestones that would occur with the bill is perfectly normal in the large context.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u89	Mr. President. It's not true that I'm going to answer because the question was really no, but I come up to respond to the statement that there is no need for a vote and a vote. We already have a very clear example of this in Icelandic law, and this is true when we choose a president, because not everyone with the right to vote has the right to volunteer. So we clearly have such an example. Of course, we also have such an example when it comes to electioning for the Generals. It takes an unscrupulous reputation to volunteer to the Generals, but people do not lose their right to vote. So there's nothing that says it has to go together. Then, in the past, we had all of this, when the votes came along with property status and women didn't have a vote, etc. But I welcome the case and look forward to winning it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u90	A respectable president. I may be at the threshold of answering, but I do not resist the temptation because the senator gave a good example of how to weave democratic education into school. My daughter was once in a nursery, where the departments took turns hiring one menu a month, and each department voted for what would be offered that day. This is such a wonderful example of how mental - minded teachers can use simple and inexpensive ways to teach democracy to children. Not only will they be allowed to face a decision but they will see it become a reality in the same month. This is a wonderful example, showing how much allies and resources we have in the teachers'class when it comes to promoting the educational program, which I so wholeheartedly agree with the senator that if we agree with this matter, we need to get a full truck put in.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u91	A respectable president. I agree with what. Councilmen who have pointed out the contrast between the mood of this morning's hall and indicate that there are only a small number of people at the council who cast them into a council hall. Then I enjoy informing the people that the work that really matters within a council that turns into a nation is very well and objective in most respects, despite a few individuals. I'm gonna keep this short, but I want to wish. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson is truly happy by the day and with this matter being restored to the chamber. I was so fortunate to be sitting at a council meeting during spring, when it was far from time before a man could press the button. But there was a reason for delaying. It's a pleasure, and I like to take part in the future again. This is a natural high and exciting democracy and, in fact, very logical because we see its movement in Iceland and abroad, on a global scale, where children are more likely to be heard for political purposes and to promote their views. We saw, for example. Greta Thunberg, a 15 - year - old girl, addressed a political conference in Poland and condemned global inactivity in climate change. Similarly, there is a Swedish girl who went to protest against climate inactivity and Þórarinsdóttir Gullbrá's daughter put together a show in LHI the other day that goes under the name The Kid Power, which raises the question: How would society look if kids were ministers, etc.? I'm glad you're here. As a parent of four children themselves, almost every day, by permission of the president, I apologize for such a conclusion, as I would say. Kids aren't stupid. Another view is that children are increasingly in need of a proverb that is actually with them and that they have a clear understanding of the world. Who better to do so than they themselves, to some extent? I will speak in those words, and congratulate the council and the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u92	A respectable president. I keep silent because the senator mentioned climate issues and how young people have gone ahead and were some of the most powerful advocates of serious climate operations. This is so crystal clear and a fine example of how the long - term thought, which should, of course, be in politics, is much more tamed by people who will experience the future that the long - term thoughts need to be taken into account. I have been involved in more campaigns, but I would have liked to do so in recent years, but this has exactly defined the visits I have had in high school. There are the questions about climate. It presents the questions about animal travel and changing eating habits and all the long - term issues that affect the future much rather than those of older groups. That politics has to deal more with such questions to voters, I think we'll be better trained to take them into our policy. Then was mentioned earlier in the Biffit Protocol. It was just a struggle to reduce election age. After the Scots had tried to do so in a national law of independence, they were expected to change in the British but with a small enough group to keep it from going through. It would have meant something quite different to Baltrexit because the generation that is about to disappear from the stage ensured that Bgreit became the site on which the generation will have to live would not have wanted it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u93	A respectable president. Yeah, I agree with everything. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson now said about climate change. This is no joke. We're looking up at very serious things that are happening very fast, and we have to activate as many people as possible. The power of the organization can be great. We're going for example. nothing to let the fate of this world in which we live, this earth, be determined by one person in the United States, sit on a throne there. It's about applying the young people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u94	Mr. President. I'd like to open up in this discussion about bringing a vote down to 16 years of age. It's just that it's been very much, but I believe that the wait for the money has paid off. Aggressively, changes have been made in what the European Union made the most comments about, that self - willed age and financial age are not compatible with terms. It has been taken into account what is very good. But I also want to say something in terms of some looking at young people and believing that they don't know what they're talking about. The local authorities are covering the environment. In the South, there is a strong young job, at least in the territory I know best, and there is no doubt it is in many parts of the country. It's really fun. Southland's Youth Council is very powerful, where the youth council of the local community meets. It's very nice to tell you that they have a two-day conference at Selephoss next week, where we are invited to participate in the second day of our visit. They also attended a council in the fall where there was a emphasis on what they were discussing. There were e.g. Work, climate, and garbage groups that they discussed were very detailed and transport issues. One of their hearts then discussed peer instruction and what is involved in the prevention of drugs. This situation can come in as a point in the Southland application program before 2019 C.E. There were 6 million who were involved in this business, which affects the natural population but is also their focus. For our education and the like, the Union of Icelandic high school students in recent years - and perhaps the positive that the popular elections have brought us - has shared in the project # I'll votes by the state, where shadows have been received from the Presidential elections and then both the General Assembly and the district elections. There, young people have been trained in this democracies program. As we have seen, they are choosing to go to school and elsewhere, and they have, in fact, come to realize that we are always making decisions like this. We're always choosing, we're working democracy, even though we don't always realize it, while we're choosing, that we're promoting democratic elections, democratic choice. I consider the conversations that have been discussed over the past few years have been of good quality. Now we have a document, with a bill, which is well mature and well considered. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u95	A respectable president. I bring a bill to a song about the change in agricultural products, No. 99/1993, with subsequent changes (cattle station in the meat industry). A moving man with me is a boy. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir. The bill involves a change in 1st paragraph. The law, as it says: ▪ After 71st. par. There's a new article in the law, 71 st. A, as follows: Despite the requirements of competitive legislation, the products of the meat industry are permitted to unite and make agreements for change in activities and to have other cooperations to maintain the cost of production, storage, and distribution of meat products. Information on such agreements and cooperation should be provided for ministerial servants for information. The bill includes changes in the way that, despite the requirements of competitive legislation, products in the meat industry are permitted to unite and establish agreements and to have other cooperations to keep the costs of storage and distribution, and so on, as mentioned earlier. That could even be the case. This includes harmonizing the transport of haystacks, as well as the distribution of crops and market work. As one report on the bill says, this is done in order to release the products of the meat industry from the principle of competitive behavior. All meat is underneath. With the bill, the aim is to provide domestic meat industry with an opportunity to adjust and deal with growing competition with products from foreign markets. The products of the meat industry can be very limited, as they are opposed to the principles of competition. This results in excessive management costs, high prices to consumers, and low prices to farmers. The bill is also intended to respond to the increased import of agrienvironmental products. There are now about 20% of total consumption of meat imported. Little products on the land alone do not have the ability to compete on this market. The competition for domestic production is huge, and it is by no means in the power of this article to compete in price or quantity. Icelandic agriculture is already in international rivalry in the domestic market, that reality is in place. A great deal of sheep farmers have been in the discussion, and last year a committee was set up to see what resources were in sight to correct the situation. Earlier in the month, representatives of the Farmer Association of Iceland and the government signed an agreement on a review of the contract on the work conditions of sheep farmers. During discussions that took place in the fall between parties, it was necessary to get into the environment of decomposition. In the country, there are nine harvests that have the right to care for sheep. Since these products are mostly farmed, it can be said that farmers always benefit from a basis for managing business. Power stations are thus equipped to work together or to cooperate and work on the market, as previously said. It should be returned to consumers at a lower price and higher price for farmers. Icelandic product stations and farmers must be prepared to compete for the increased competition of meat import - which is a fact. Now the situation is that imported beef has become more than 20% of a bull sale here. It is similar with the import of chicken and pork. So there is no point in saying that Icelandic sheep are part of this meat market and that they need to strengthen their defenses. KPMG, an assessment of the products, concluded that there are too many slaughterhouses and that there is a reduction in their ability to improve the quality of this article. It also says that the reduction in crops can increase the interest of the remaining slaughterhouses and allows them to have room for self - efficiency. This may be the answer to the problems that may include. the slaughterhouse has been busy during the rush hour. A respectable president. Clearly, the growth of products is especially important because it has become a market failure. In the past three years, the recovery of this article has actually reached its bottom. It takes effort to evict from him. Eternity has been at the lowest point in history. The average price for farmers was this autumn, about 387 k. per kilogram, but it would likely take about 650 to700. to achieve an adequate budget for the average sheepfold. Clearly, the facility has been in such a way that a higher price for farmers has not been paid. This brings benefits to no one, neither to farmers, nor to consumers. The opening point is that the interests of farmers and consumers go together. So it is a common struggle to protect Icelandic food production. I don't have any more words on this bill. I hope that it's well-received, and it's being done on the job committee where it belongs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u96	Madam President. Not surprisingly, I have some doubts about the subject presented here. In view of the competitiveness and lack of respect, 20 years, 20 years in advance, the price level increased; the largest of which are little or no competition, and the most competitive. Hence, it is a little surprising that in this matter's report, it is suggested that consumers prefer to combine products in carnivores. Interestingly, since veggie support was converted to bone pay instead of toll protection, and the article has worked under unregulated international competition, the prices on these products have increased much less than the prices in the country since 2004 in general. At the same time, we have given the milk industry an exception to the rules of competition, where prices have increased considerably beyond the increase in index prices. That is why in my previous answer, I wondered: " How do the movers of this case see that it is for consumers that it would be permitted to do more competition than when it is already in operation of deforestation? It may also be noted that farmers themselves have few options for slaughter and how they can process their products and can also be considered to be a major step-up in this sector. Like, I do. That there may be one of five collections in the slaughter of sheep. At least two of these are in a highly linked possession, so in active competition, they are probably only three or four.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u97	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for the answer that wasn't unexpected. But I'm telling you that the interests of farmers and consumers go together in competition. This is because prices are not the only interest to consumers but also quality. It is of utmost importance for Icelandic consumers to have this choice. We are talking about competition from foreign meats, from foreign markets, which both increase carbon levels and are not of the quality of the Icelandic lamb, which is both refreshing and pure. That's where consumer interests are. How important it is that consumers be offered an Icelandic meat market! The same is true in the milk industry, but a competitive song was taken out there. It's increased innovation in the milk industry. We can see that there has been an increase in the growth of local milk markets, in terms of consumers in innovation, and in a number of products, and in other ways. We're in the middle of nowhere in this country, and we're very small in that context.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u98	Madam President. I have to admit that when speaking to Icelandic agriculture, I find that you, except for the competitiveness of the industry, have become a major source of doubt. The competitiveness laws, then, are primarily used to protect consumers, to ensure that we enjoy freedom of choice and competition in the most markets. Hence, there must be compelling reasons why entire sectors of industry must be excluded from the rules of competition. In the end, the competitive law is not so inhibited for the commercial life in general. Sources for cooperation or further fusion beyond the rules of competition? I ask them, " Could it not all be the same with the same reasoning that there's one oil company here or that they could have full cooperation? ' I think most people would think it was delirium. Or that we would be here with one food chain or that our current chains could have complete consultations and partnerships on real estate, shopping, etc. That's what I think we would also consider the greatest delirium. How about one bank? One insurance company? One phone company? What makes land special in this context? All companies in this country are in some kind of competition for import or local products of any type that are imported, or services. Even so, we cannot think of going into competitive business, such as telephone, grocery store, bank, insurance, and so on - much less oil distribution and store - and escape these articles of competition.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u99	A respectable president. Yeah, thanks again. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson. We may be talking about different things when talking about communication service or food security. If we fully open the import of dairy products - it reminds me that it happened in the fall, I read it in the farm paper, that the tenth largest company in a competitive market of milk rolls over several times as the Icelandic state rolls, we're competing in a micromarket. Although we, who are producing Icelandic products, all of us want to keep, have reached the point of pain in the sheep's flocks. I don't think we're losing anything, Icelandic consumers, because we get a product that's completely competitive with foreign products. That's where we have to get going. Although we only support that competition, I don't think there's any leaning, not at all on consumers. I don't think it's said too often that consumers' interests and farmers always go together, it's very important to draw them out. I'm not talking about cutting competition in other products, e.g. into all imported oil. It has companies on a foreign market to compete with and also in telecommunications and other forms of communication.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u100	Madam President. Let us not doubt that those who pay for an exception from a competitive law in the end are consumers, and in this case no doubt also do farmers. Farmers in the context of the strong situation already in the meat market in this country complain very highly that their opportunities for sale and marketing of their products are extremely limited, farmers really have no choice at each product. Recently e.g. As a result of a significant reduction in farm prices, farmers declared that they would even seek opportunities in their own processing, and the marketing of their products suddenly raised a high price to take back their bodies for further work. It describes the low level of competition or, in fact, the post - market monopoly. As for further fusion, let's watch only the companies who are the dominant. We have a Southland slaughter society of over 10 billion a year, with its own money of over 5 billion, and our own financial sum of 60%. It seems to me that it reflects a reasonably stable and healthy operation and that no intervention or extravasation from competitive law is needed to further support that business. Since there has also been a large convergence, the Fight Society has been expanding its activities over the years to other groups of products, and it is very predominant, e.g. when it comes to chicken bars and work and lamb and other meat products. We have the Bankers' Trade Company in the north, and we also own a share of property in two additional slaughterhouses in the Western Huns and in the South, where we can see that once we've reached a high degree of compression. We've got Norwegian in the Eyjafjörður region that's connected with other deportations as far as I know. The market is already very narrow in that area. We're in, I'd say, three to five dominant products depending on whether or not we're counting in-between parties. It would clearly not be the interests of farmers in this regard, for it would be a little tighter to their marketing potential, much less their own implementation of products, by such a change of law. We can clearly see in all the rights we have given from competitive law over the years that they are always at the expense of consumers. In the past 20 years, for example, few have increased more than a postal service and the driving of a taxi vehicle. There are two markets where there is no competition. Lactic products have also increased substantially beyond prices, despite discussions about all the economics that were to be submitted to consumers in their time. The cost to consumers has not come in any way. I think we should take away any doubt about it. In fact, in an environment that is partly applicable to the milk industry, the same is true, e.g. for electrical transport and distribution, where we have allowed either complete mononuity or significant competition under so - called a regular environment, we see that the rates of the service are considerably higher than the rates inflation, resulting in a relatively good outcome. It has been found that there is nothing more rigid than a free competition, no harder master on that subject. What products have been mentioned in the 20 years when we look at them? It's a dissociation of the index price, as the Habitat shows it. It's, for example. Dresses and shoes. It is the telephone service, the imported cars, and parts to the automobiles, and so on. These are all products that have no special protection on our part because of competition, either the import or the import response of a national or national service. That is why it is very dangerous to expect to go further in that direction. I don't think it's for farmers or consumers to take such a step. I think we should rather unite in this hall to free farmers themselves from the yoke of the decommission system and the chain it places on farmers. for the implementation and marketing of their products, and we see a number of examples. We also see the fear that seems to be there, as shown by Matis's attempt in the fall to shape the implementation rules from so - called microspheres, which have not been given much sound foundation for the current government. So those in power have never had any special love for free competition. However, the competitive rules we have received, the rules and laws we have received to protect ourselves from consumers are more and less all imported through the European Economic Area. That is a thought - provoking point. For the implementation of the European Economic Convention, it was hardly a matter of competitive, competitive rules or the importance of free contracts. I know the stories of old employment drivers of how comfortable it was to work to form a public merit check that needed a financial cut-off. It is so easy to back up prices when only the warrant needs to be obtained but not to yield to the discipline of competition. The competition doesn't ask us how much we have to raise. The competition will give us just how much we can raise. It is not easy to reason on the official committee's need for promotions or the development of an index price or any other factor that can be taken at any given moment, and it is usually not taken lightly by such raise requests. Free competition never agrees with such reasoning; it simply asks who offered the best. At that, all parties must compete. I'm sorry that we have no more faith in the competition than this. I sure hope it doesn't work out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u101	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson is talking about the competition and interests of farmers and consumers. I think we'll agree that in the best interests of everything, we want the best. Hv. A senator quoted the milk industry highly, but I may remind him of how the system is built up. The prices there are controlled by a government committee, probably all in half or more, which means that some products such as butter are produced and sold under price prices. This means that there is no other way to get it in. This makes the status of the milk industry extremely vulnerable to import. I've never seen anyone think of importing new milk or butter because there's no future, the future is on the other side, where the company has the freedom to obtain prices. I think there's something wrong. A senator should help repair and solve the problem. I can't see that it can go on the increase in import and competition. I went to the Internet for fun earlier, some Internet store, and saw that the new one could be bought in 154 k. And blue water in a two litre bottle at 279 taps. There are no deportations, and everything is free. It's blue water that we can get from every tern selling at 140 bucks. The litre. So the little one was 14 k. equivalent to the two litres of the bottle. Then there was another species, 1.5 litres, at 329 k., or 219 k. The crummy. [[The president calls.]] So it is not possible to prove that competition in the water leads to low prices.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u102	Mr. President. Thank you. An excellent answer from a senator. How interesting it is when we look at the milk industry for why we have such an arrangement! Like what? A senator pointed out to have a company market manager with official prices control. I think that the Galasamal is well over 95% of the market share, probably pretty close to 100%, if that's the case. But why do we make a business selling its main product, the new milk, or whether it is new milk or milk, with losses and even significant losses, at a considerable lower price, as well as the low price. A senator points out, but merchants rely on them to sell water on bottles and in the product where their competition for import would probably be the strongest? I think we can all agree that the import of a relatively low - weight price, if you can put it that way, is not particularly practical and would be highly unlikely, even in a relatively competitive environment, that we see a significant import of fresh milk into this country. At the same time, however, we are going to go to the company to pick up all his careers in cheeses and fatter products, which, in the end, are the most sensitive to competition. I don't think it's an unreasonable arrangement. I think the first thing to do is rethink it, is this the point? The purpose appears to be to try to maximise milk production in any way, but it is also not wise to produce more than a balanced market situation. [[The president calls.]] In free prices, there is no doubt that it would be considerably different.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u103	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yeah, I think it's time to do this. But I might mention, and it may be that there's an introduction to the product discussion that I'll be better able to follow, that the Galaconta and Théoden Companies Association are made to sell smaller companies who also want to explode on the market at a very good price and that I believe that the price they will have to pay themselves. In view of its size, it is not unusual for a smaller company to buy at a lower price. It's fine, and I can't see better than they'll bloom these days and bring new things, and there's a lot of positive things going on in those parts.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u104	Mr. President. It is true that the Radial has sold milk to its tiny rivals at a favorable price. On the other hand, I have also listened to the declarations made by the precontinents, e.g. However, the ark of Isafjörður, who does not feel that he is living too well under that arrangement of the market. The Spanish sale has the advantage of being able to bring down any rivals and at any time, only with their own goods or products, and, in fact, many have done so. When commercial products have emerged from the market, the Spanish sale has more often than shown similar goods and has submerged the rival. I know, for example. not how often Milk or similar companies have been bought into the Galacasse. [[The president calls.]] Then you might ask, " Is it not the right time for all this economy and compression to eliminate the release so that the competitive act, though no doubt the following? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u105	Mr. President. Listening to what is bad is always refreshing. Víglundsson We're talking about agricultural business and price competition. It is quite funny, however, to mention a gas deal in Iceland as an example of competition; there are probably five oil companies; and there is one spot in Iceland, such as a five - mile spot, where there is a real competition at the price of gasoline and oil. Otherwise, we could go far and wide across the country and find that the price difference between these enterprises is 10 cents per liter unless there is a World Cup of handball or Eurovision or something so that there is no active competition in that market. There is also the fact that in Iceland we have a business enterprise that has 60% market share, but such market share is unknown. I remember that in Britain, the three biggest food chains of 60% combined are in Britain, and the British are sweating over it. They think it's awesome. This alone, i.e. ▪ The competitiveness of the competition, which is just not a major part of the world, does not provide a basis for a lower price, much like that. Hv. One senator said: "What has been less recent is shoes and clothing. " It is, in fact, with the government's help that has lifted both taxes and the merchandise from there. You can't pat the merchant on the back for that. Ex-knife. Jónasson A report published some years ago by the National Institute of Economics at the National Institute of Economics (Hology) that benefited by the failure of the Galacsal in its time, there were 3 billion each year, 2 to the consumers, 1 to the farmers. I'd like to hear what you're thinking. A senator on this and how he reasoned that the trade in the country is thanks to a backup ready to reduce goods and tolls of less than anything else. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u106	President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's answer to that question, and he admits that I find little more fun than to kneel. A senator on agricultural matters. The question is, Isn't it all due to deduction of customs and merchandise? Admittedly, this has had its own effect. Actually, I said quite a few more packs of goods than this one. There is also in the context that during the period I was talking about, over the last 20 years, I remember as much as the food tax was recorded, i.e. worth tax on food dropped considerably. It has had to do with helping milk and other foods in this comparison. Also, when customs and goods were removed from clothing, people were deeply concerned that they would not return to consumers, but competition evidently made sure that they did not stay with merchants but went out to consumers. Hv. A senator mentions a gas sale and a blending of a small store of groceries. It's true that in our little country, there's a little competition that's quite the dominant. That's why I think that the more important it is to be here with powerful, efficient competitive legislation and to use it mercilessly to keep such companies in check. We're always trying to do a line dance between a economy of larger units, which in a small country inevitably means they're few. We have at most larger markets three to five total parties, such as those in meat products. That's why I think it's exactly the most important thing for competitive legislation to mean values as well as the rules of competition. It is a different matter when it comes specifically to agriculture. I'm a huge fan of Icelandic agricultural products. I speak largely for support of Icelandic agriculture. [[The president calls.]] I just want to see a competition come in, so consumers also benefit from the support and the direct resources of the state we are reassigning to the agriculture.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u107	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for that answer. There was one thing I only wanted to kill on here. Two years ago, i.e. in meeting months, the price of sheep offered dropped by one third, the year before about 10%. I'd asked a lot of questions, including in this chair here, where would it have gone because it was costing the same thing from the store. In fact, it occurred from one of the U.S. Special Parliaments in the fall that these prices to farmers had reached lower backwaters. Then you must ask: If they were united in a stronger unit, action such as this expected would be more effective in consumers and farmers too if the cost of operating for these enterprises would be lower with more economic management and greater size benefits. Or what?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u108	President. I am now out of a sheep's house that I believe that if the competition is efficient and powerful, it is a powerful incentive for these same products to seek economic advantage from themselves and not merely use their market to farmers and lower prices there. Some of the competition must also be about getting the meat. There we find that there is no competition. Farmers have no choice of who they sell. Already, the burden of deforestation is already high enough to drive about a hundred miles [100 km] in case a slaughterhouse is to be replaced by the dominant person in the market. If it was a competition to return to farmers, the price might not have been as great as it was. I noticed, like a dog. A senator, that it did not seem to return to consumers, may have put increased pressure on the power plant itself to find other and better ways to adapt. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u109	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Víglundsson, for he will talk of competition: rely. A senator for competition? We're talking about a nine-office station in the country. How many dominant companies do we have in the store? The chains are just three, aren't they? I don't trust them in any of the consumer interests of this country. We're talking about the Icelandic foods, sheep farms, sheep's meat, which is very stocked, and we're talking about meeting all the quality requirements as well as about carbon tracks and transport and so on. How can it be? A senator will provide food security and public health if we see behind this production? There was talk of competition and fierceness. A senator spoke of the transport network in electrical energy. I think we're in the reality in Iceland that we need to build up some goods in public, and that they may be allowed to enjoy the flag, because if some competition ruled in the electrical transport system, I doubt that I would have electricity e.g. West on the beach, except with a camera, for no one would trust in that competition.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u110	President. Thank you. A senator and a messenger respond. Targets are never perfect. There's no market in our understatement which is perfect at any rate. I can, for example. ...................... paritaprevir Sæmundsson's fraught with fuel market competition, there is no doubt incomplete. But I look to it and say: I don't need and I don't need to trust any individual company or store in that competition, I trust the competitive authorities to monitor these markets, and take action they think that companies will abuse their market position in any way, such as, At a grocery market, where it is quite right for compression to be intense. That's why I've never understood a lawsuit, e.g. pro-profit officers who speak to the Contestant for this exact purpose. That's why the United Nations is showing the claws and being very cruel in its surveillance, because in this way we will ensure consumer interests to enjoy the advantage of corporations, which would be less affordable to consumers. That's what may be the essence of my language. Hv. A senator named a network in electrical energy. I'm not contradicting the current system. I consider obvious eco-efficiency to common transport systems. I believe, however, that we need to be much more vicious in monitoring a shipping company in a monopolitan position on which to charge. I think we could be more cruel there and Power Institute, for example. More efficient in their surveillance of the price-raising district of the same company. I say, because at the other end, there are also farmers in this context, that I don't think it's their interest that the compression will be too much. Even though it is often described on days that farmers own the products, I think it seems that the balance between crops is increasing rather than farmers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u111	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for answers. I don't think we can get together in these matters, but it's good to communicate. The U.S. Governing Body has had a bit of a chance to say this, but I don't know how much it's done. He has not returned to farmers or consumers in these matters. We're talking specifically about the Icelandic lamb, the sheep farm. There is something else about competition. We are not discussing it, and we are sure to agree in many ways in this regard. But I think we're securing food security and public health because our lamb's competition turns towards imported goods. We are always getting more indications and warnings that there is a product that is not of the same quality as here and that threatens not only our human health but also our livestock stock on the land. All the ways we can take care of our food security and our public health are very important. As for the store, I do not necessarily trust her or the importer to ensure the import of the best quality because they may be thinking about the price and they are thinking about their interests because they are in a competitive market. Well, I don't have a question, but what? paritaprevir Wazowski's Þorsteinn Víglundsson to answer how he will provide food security and public health and how he feels about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u112	President. That's exactly the most interesting thing to do. First, as noted in a recent report, more than 40% of the meat being brought in each year is being imported by the products themselves. They'll probably control the quality of that product on their own, but I always think that the same party is saying that it's amazingly harmful to us and that it should be strictly forbidden. I find it unfaithful to the stakeholders who have the language to which imported meat is dangerous to us at the same import. I'm very serious if they're moving in against a better level of toxic goods, as can be expected from the way they speak. And, for example, if we were to manage business capitals or importers from public health terms in general, we would still prohibit the full import of alcohol, tobacco, or sugar. [[Take it up, Jess.]] Now we're talking. It is always the question: Will we reach public health goals with education or commandments and bans? Over the decades, we have experienced that bans do not necessarily work well in this context, but education does. We have been able to cut down heavily on the use of prices and education. We can also approach alcohol in a similar way by teaching, and we certainly do so in prices. It might be considered to do the same when it comes to harmful products, e.g. ... averyscautious product. I don't think we should seriously examine the severity of their public health policy against a pair of people, for example. alcohol and tobacco. I would clearly not put the meat there, but I believe that with regular support to farmers for continued production and products development, we should have very good and strong markets here because we want wholesome, good, and wholesome products. [[The president calls.]] I don't think anything better for myself than good Icelandic lamb on the grill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u113	V.E.G. President. I thank you for the donation of the bill, which I think is very timely and good to be treated and given a deeper discussion on a committee. I think it's time, in view of the circumstances on the market. I can honestly say that it would be best not to do this, but the circumstances are like this. In view of the past, you have to say, as it is, that there is actually a free competition for the products of the meat field. It seems to indicate that the potential for products to cope with competition is low. The products appear to be on the feet of bread. Small opportunities have been made through this process, and they are weak enough to hold many even for a short period of time. It was mentioned earlier that farmers must profit by continuing to compete. At the same time, everyone clearly admits that there is a high level of market competition. You've been watching for decades that huge groups in a small deal, e.g. against farmers, who are very many too small and weak, play like a cat at the rear of a mouse. It is negotiated with one person today for a large amount, and tomorrow that contract is outside and another station is in because it offered a lower price. That's how it's been marketed. I don't see that it can work. All talk is that farmers are healing or that farmers are floundering on farmers'farms is questionable. But I can readily agree and think that we are not too happy to help support the farmers who want to do their products at home and even run their little slaughterhouses. I think that can work really well in the system too. As noted by a carrier, this cannot be unusual, since we face a high level of competition today from import, and it even increases, that we are opposed, put together to respond. Otherwise, I think this case will all rot. How exactly is that to be done? It is the job of the Parliament to discuss this matter with others. Clearly, a flat surface can be found. It is a good thing for agriculture to work, so it must be possible to find a flat surface on it. I mentioned in the discussion earlier that the milk industry could also be accepted as an example, i.e. It has been found to be very expensive for many to collect milk. The same with the meat. It's expensive that many people are in that business. But large companies may well be obliged to sell smaller companies to minimal prices for further processing so that competition and products development can be promoted and maintained in smaller companies, as is happening in milk. I think that's the best part. I strongly support the bill to succeed. I hope it's well received and developed for good.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u114	V.E.G. President. Here we discuss a bill to correct the change in agricultural products, with subsequent changes to the products of the meat industry. This bill puts in place a change in agricultural products in order to eliminate the products of the meat industry from the competitive industry. I'm going to step up and quote this bill directly to the report. Starting quote, with president's permission: ▪ The purpose is to provide domestic meat industry with an opportunity to adjust and deal with growing competition outside. International comparison is made up of national products in the meat industry, and therefore it is not competitive with the products of international markets, which are much larger and more efficient targets. Nevertheless, the internalized meat industry is becoming increasingly competitive with products from foreign markets. The products of the meat industry can be very limited, as they are opposed to the principles of competition. This results in excessive management costs, high prices to consumers, and low prices to farmers. The development of the last disturbance shows that import is becoming a significant increase, and the transport workers of this bill believe that domestic people are on hand. Transporters believe that it is necessary to suggest that products will be authorized to react to consumer competition and farmers for the better by improving business profits. The competition is with foreign producers, who are far larger than those found here. So the bill suggests that the products of the meat industry will be excluded from the elements of competition, which are examples in which the milk industry is under the understatement of conditions of competition. In addition, such agreements on cooperation, agreements on action, and cooperation are proposed to be provided to the Minister of Agriculture for information. I'd like to start by thanking a 1st con man. paritaprevir The Halla of the Signý's daughter, the Lord's Kristjánsdóttir, is very pleased to have it done here. It is evident that Icelandic agriculture is at a turning point. Scourging as carnivore producers, i.e. Today, farmers and farms face many challenges. I want to study it and pick out most of the challenges these articles and producers face. For example, the current toll agreement with the European Union went into effect on May 1. It will greatly increase domestic competition in the near future. At that time, 97.4% of the total toll file is completely restricted to customs when imported from the EU. A small third of the remaining tolls remain. The remainder of the trade, however, is only if extra food is introduced, which is toll free in accordance with the contract's terms. I often feel that there is a big misunderstanding. It should be kept in place that 2007 was negotiated with the EU by a general 40% reduction in meat customs. That contract is now part of the new one. As is well known, the EFTA Court's judgment fell on November 14th. where there was a decision that the cryo-related on the imported meat would be a violation of the EEA Convention. This requires a lot of uncertainty for farmers and the work environment of carnivores in the carnivore industry. One thing is certain, though, that if nothing is done, the judgment will have a significant effect on domestic meat production. The reexamination company Deloitte has estimated the loss of domestic agricultural income in the range of 1.4-1.8 billion per year, this is the case. It is clear that there is a lack of marketing in the export of sheep meat and, unfortunately, does not experience the end of that condition. This is a number of external factors that the domestic product has not been capable of affecting. The European Union's commercial war with Russia is due to the Ukraine issue, the Bgreit, the turn of gangs, and the collapse of markets in Norway. This, in short, has resulted in a 38% reduction in farm life since 2015. There may not be other groups in the country who would accept this. The well - meaning value of consumers to domestic production is clear, but there is insufficient origination, and it is not followed by governments, especially in catering and services. The local consumers are not always informed about where the food comes from, even if they want it to come from. It's always part of a lack of money. Yet, I would like to mention that various companies have really tried to improve that. You can pick some of them on the northeast corner, e.g. Mountain sheep, if I recall correctly, and undoubtedly more companies who entered it to the source. That guarantees that. Then people know where they get their food, who makes it, etc. It is also an incentive for every manufacturer and farmer to follow his product in and know that this traceability exists. Similarly, the uniqueity of domestic meat production, e.g., is often not clearly stated on the market. in the power of low antibiotic use, low product use, strict welfare rules and strict staff rights. In many ways, it is unique, and we should be proud of it. Animal standards and requirements for all manufacturing are high here and should be used. I have not heard farmers complain of it, nor do I want to follow those rules. We are fine, and we support ourselves in being proud of our products. We can offer them anywhere, knowing that they contain a wholesome product. Then, even if we compare ourselves with our neighboring countries, the products are small companies compared to comparable companies in competitive countries. Admittedly, we have small products that are not in a position to compete with a larger market. It is not realistic to expect them to do so. Another challenge is that in many parts of the world, special markets containing meat are accepted, so the market is not fully subject to competitive laws, such as Norway. But there is also access rights in the EU, New Zealand, and the United States. This is what I think every man sees that starts to look into these matters. In that case, the companies are on a number of farms in their area of employment. Farmers growing livestock for meat cannot work without them, nor can they work without farmers. Thus, a built - in translation is significant, and if one factor disappears, the other will. In many of the scattered areas and areas of the country, sheep are prepared, for example. the back of the spine, which is in the bone, and which maintains the network connection. That's what the job life is based on. This share in farming must not be underestimated as well as in all parts of the country. The sheep truly associate us with one another throughout the country. The crowning of creation has no small part. We can also see that e.g. in one farm of pigs in the Eyjafjörður has some 8,990 jobs to do in slaughtering and processing. So it's quick to count. Pronunciation of agriculture is about 11,000. This is so important to us in so many ways. All of us would like to have a strong job life all over the country, and this is certainly part of it. But last year's business has been heavy and investment and development capacity are small under current conditions, as indicated by the assessment of KPMG. The food security of the national industry is good and therefore cannot be lost. Then I come back to the fact that Icelandic farmers have had an envyful success in combating Campylobacter in poultry products that are exemplary in Europe. Nowhere is as much screening as here and there are no other conditions as there is in the post-marketing period where a Campylobacter has been identified. We are dealing with an enormously public health issue, and we must not expose ourselves to the position we have in this regard. We must listen to our most skilled scholars in these matters, who strongly warn us against disrupting our balance and losing the position we have reached, which is so important and so precious to us. We need to think about future generations and the future. We certainly have an obligation to do so. V.E.G. President. For meat production to be able to cope with challenges facing you, there is a new challenge to the operation. Otherwise, at least the next loss is the survival spirit of an enterprise. those who have no further support. The competition is actually no longer between national enterprises but with international manufacturers that are much larger, living in all other manufacturing conditions, other manufacturing devices and, in some cases, all other working conditions. The Icelandic slaughter and meat industry must be developed for increased conveniences in order to have a chance to withstand intensive market competition. Surely we want all Icelandic consumers to enjoy more wholesome products, especially from their own country. If this activity is not to be compromised, a new thought must be made. In order to reduce costs and reduce ecosystems, companies need additional sources of cooperation. At the same time, it is normal to make extra demands toward them. If this bill goes forward and legally allows the exception of competitive laws to be used to manipulate slaughterhouses by hand, fusion, and partnerships, the reduction of costs, improved use, less environmental footprints, and more valuable things is not to be talked about in the same kind of rules as the milk industry has, it is not to be talked about by public government. The exception between the removal of cattle to a farmer's location and the use of a piece of meat - is emphasized that in this process all means for saving and economic gain. The competition continues to be a whole and small sale with meat. Baseline this would result in the ability of companies to work together on such projects as the transport of cut-offs, processing, sales and marketing of side products, products distribution, development projects, and other factors that are defined as benefits. The KPMG report highlights a high difference in cut-off costs and thus an advantage. Just a decrease in peak slaughter costs to a median of 700 million. K. Scramble. At the same time, it must be ensured that small service and crafting houses and carnivores can work in a comparable way as before, as with the care of small dairy equipment in farms today. The premise is that cooperation always leads to practicality. The economy is to be made up of strong companies that can better withstand competition and better care for consumers' needs. But that's not enough. Care must be taken to ensure that any means that you can obtain for farmers and consumers too. V.E.G. President. Here's a job to do, and I really hope this bill is going to work and we're gonna get good publicity at the council. I've come to realize that there's a lot of potential for it here. I rejoice over this bill and for the support man has given. The food production and agriculture are of utmost importance to us in the vast and vast land of our own. All the opportunities we have for food must become more and more precious to us in view of conditions in the world. We don't have to look past the last summer when there was a crop failure in the North countries. Now we have to take advantage of our opportunities. We need to have a clear frame, to keep a tight grip on the agriculture and to promote the people who are still willing to pursue it. Here we live so well that we have many well - educated, open - minded, and good farmers who will continue to produce good food for us and our descendants. It must always be the role of the government to use Icelandic agriculture and to give it the strength to withstand competition. I'd like to use this opportunity to mention a case that is being joined by the Assembly of the Agency. It is about public eco-friendly purchases that the state, which is one of the largest food buyers and the one who gives most of the table every day, looks to the carbon - based food supply. That must lead to one thing. Then the food must be produced near the consumer. I sincerely hope that this bill is getting a good start here in the treatment of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-01-24-57.u115	A respectable president. This matter stands very close to our middle-class hearts, and we're all for it. But there are a number of things that touch the bill that I think it is necessary to appear, including the extent to which the unwanted products are now likely because the poor farmers who have been killed in the past 30 months or so have not returned to consumers. In other words, she's gone back to the products. I must also say that if such a procedure is performed, it will call for a highly effective surveillance of integrated products. In that case also, I want to say that this fall I have asked a seafaring and agricultural minister about the supply status of sheep products for the next two years, i.e. during the first and previous year, when farm prices were impaired by 29%, if I recall correctly. Information I had from the sector was that it meant a meat mountain, which was the basis of the reduction of farms' prices to farmers, the gathering of mostly of inwards, beats, fields, and such products. This is not to be obtained because the registration of supplies at the Society's headquarters is not clear at all. This was shown in response to agrienvironmental minister in the fall to this point. It was, for example. You can't split up in a particular body part or where these meant supplies, as you say. Action followed by this sharp reduction in farms resulted in less objectiveness, a reduction in production. Latest news in the papers the other day suggests that in the whole summer, those who want to eat pork chops and spinachs have been left to hamster it because sheep supply tells us that during the summer months, their spines will be scarce because they have cut too quickly and because of the opinion that the market for the remaining parts of the sale is over. e.g. I'm sorry, sugar doesn't come up on a lot of fish. It may be devoted to the lack of preparation of the products. They don't have any money, unless they don't. They may not be able to engage in post-approval activities. There is also another thing that I want to put into question the interests of consumers, and it is that compression, such as this, must make the demands that there will be a much better source of origin. It is so once, with the exception of a small manufacturer, such as a mountainer, who has become the source of part of its production, that for them, e.g. In favor of buying, we should tell the money of the Beaches, is not a way to find out where the lamb is from where they buy it. Less than that, 28 groups of quality in lamb's flesh, fat content, etc. But the pork chops in the store, and the garners, are all alike. We'll buy them at the same price, no matter what kind of item that has landed in a slaughterhouse. The consumers pay the same price, no matter what. This is not what we want to see. We want to see that consumers have a choice. We want them to choose to buy from certain areas, if that is what they want, to buy a certain type of meat if that is what they want. I'd like to give you an example. From a very inaccurate survey that has been signed at stores in Reykjavík or in the capital area, it seems that buying, e.g., seems very difficult. ... bigscarlets. They are mostly very low, very small and light, which means that bonepropentan is higher as a result. If anyone buys, he buys more bone ratio than a meat loaf, if he doesn't get what he's looking for. There are some of these good things that must also be followed if such a matter, such as these, would be brought forward. It is interesting, however, when people speak of a competitive failure that should result in this. This is how Iceland's small market, especially in groceries, is combined in holdings and market shares. We've got one company up to 60%. We have three of them, which are probably a total of 88%, all owned by the same party in more or more of the dominant part of the same pension fund. Active competition isn't there. Rather, it can be said that what it is called is a silent price. We can even see that. in prices surveys carried out. In stores that are most competitive to the same dollar on the goods that are likely to land in prices. What did it take to change both products, e.g. As for lamb, and as for various goods, shall they be changed? What did it take to do? Yes, a merchant had to be brought in. In fact, I've long served as a spokesman for our import of merchants. Sadly, the experience of the one large move we moved into last year, or we studied here in a recent year, brings many disappointments. The advance there is not enough. In fact, we consumers should wish to come here with these real chains, like the Lidl in Germany or any of them, Føtex and Salling group in Denmark. We should get real business chains that have real competition and they'd give us real competition into this market. It doesn't matter whether agricultural products or any other products are involved, we would really feel this if such competition was active. The other is so different, as it has only been observed, that this particular milk industry from competitive law, which also includes public prices, and that knows people who, for example, have. Talk very much about-- I'm not here to fuck the Lacties, excuse me, President, but it's clear that according to reports published there's been a considerable advantage for both consumers and farmers, having here one large company. I don't think anybody put it simple, clear and sharper than the past. paritaprevir The count of Jónasson's son, who said that this was simply the way it was done, when the milk industry was excluded from this law, paid $3 billion each year, where farmers received 1 and consumers. This may be the model we're watching could be if this bill became a law. It's an akhill, I think, for all our productions now what we're poor at origins. I am absolutely convinced that if we had real meaning, we could also be more effective in foreign markets. True, I personally believe that the men who cannot sell Icelandic lamb as quality products are to be rewarded. I think it takes a very special talent not to be able to sell this product for a good price. But that may be private inspection. So many things you've heard and tried over the years. Those who pick up Iceland and eat lamb and buy it abroad all open up to hear that this meat is truly tasty and delicious. Therefore, it is amazing that we sell it on sale of the main part of the year, at the expense of farmers, in part. I think it would be very interesting for us consumers to have just a picture of a lamb's fleas in the Mogga, or in a magazine, A-4 on a whole page, which is now larger than A-4, where the lamb fleas would be replaced by what each receives. What does the state get on the merit tax? What does the store really get? What gets the company station, and what does the farmer get? I think this might be a lot of information for us consumers, i.e. ... aboutthepreservation of this product. We're actually completely in the dark about what the price is and what it's like. We can see that. I can't remember what this farmer's going to get at a kilo right now for lamb. I don't remember if it's 387. [[Taken out at: 387.]] A piece of lambfilet costs five thousand and two hundred, actually the best bite, boneless. But I think it would also be interesting, and I actually don't understand in the Farmers' groups not to do that, to take just one body and divide it like that, you could split it four ways. The farmer always gets that 387 bar. But what will come out? What is the full price of one lamb's garment after it is either brushed out or made of cigarette chops, leg slices, or hang meat, or anything else? I think we need to catch this honor. Also because we're thinking that this honor will go on to consumers, a little bit of respect that would be available by a stronger resort. That's what we're thinking about. And, of course, he needs to return to the farmers. That's why I say it's a little narrow now to think that the antinegrosses we're taking, as well as the contractions after this sharp reduction in farm prices in the afternoons, are creating a meat shortage in the summer, two years later. You have to realize that humans don't produce lamb in one week. It'll take a little longer. To handle this, you have to make real models, look up two years ahead, how you can expect the market to behave. This may be what has been lacking. This will definitely take place now at both bus stops and farmers and will, for example, do so. This year, I'm sure. So there are a number of things that go with the bill that you need to look at if you are going to achieve the good goals that are in the bill. Of course, consumers and producers are to be friends, partners, and partners, and in the vast majority of cases. It has been successful and sometimes not the same. Those who talk most about the lack of agricultural competition have often spoken of reduced tolls on vegetables as a worthwhile object. Yes, it did, but he also simplified many lives because it is now in the ground so that farmers produce grouses, tomatoes and peppers and, as one man says, only on some shelf, but evolution and evolution in the supply of goods are not great. That's because these same farmers are given up the singles-empty food chains that are here. These are all things that we need to consider. Of course, we need to think about producing much more food. To illustrate: What do people think is a lot of carbon emissions involved in transporting kilograms from Teneriefe to Iceland? We're supposed to make that product at home as much as possible. Of course. In other words, "healthy water. "
