ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u1	Mr. President. Last week, a group of work I reported returned to the highest level. A health minister to help us and how we visualize their future arrangements. I just wanted to explain this job to the General. The staff sat with me with representatives of the staff of help tools and professionals helping people to select the right tools, such as occupational therapists and physical therapists, but also a representative of Iceland's health insurance, which has a final vision by dispensing large amounts of relief equipment. I have high hopes that these matters will now be settled. Although Iceland and I do well when it comes to relief tools, there are certainly much better things to do. One of the things to be done is simply to review regulations and update them in the context of law. This may sound to some as scary dick shit and something that doesn't matter, but it isn't. It matters how we talk about things, so a certain line is set. This is also suggested larger and more complex changes, such as reviewing whether to add value taxes to aid tools and the right to unite things so that cases involving aid devices and now going through two different departments will all be in the hands of the State and be represented by one government. [[The president calls.]] I have high hopes that this will start a job that will be used as a means of great benefits.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u2	A respectable president. In current labour agreements, a 2016 cattle breeding contract is agreed on. That agreement involves changing the system of people in the past quarter of the century. The main factor is that milk payment targets should be removed during the contract period, both as a reference to bone payment and a host that ensures high priority in the domestic market. Another objective of this contract is to promote the work of the Icelandic bovine industry, create the article that is the most versatile and prepare it for the challenges of the next few years. The Treaty is designed to promote development and innovation in the article with the wholesome quality of produce, the well - being of animals, and social responsibility guided by them. The contract also expects this year to be taken up and reviewed as to whether the objectives of the contract were met and whether there is any reason to make changes and that the decision to take the decision to take the matter off in 2021 will be reviewed. The secretary put together an appointment for a reimbursement of a livestock contract and made a suggestion to the minister in February. But nothing has been said about the response of the government. This has caused uncertainty in farmers and frost in the dairy market. This has caused problems, including for recent recruitment. Those who have been built up with an increase in mind cannot approach the right to manufacture. In this situation, farmers may be said to have been trapped. Farmers were examined, and by then 90% remained unchanged, i.e. holding to the payment market in milk. The conclusion, of course, is consistent with the fact that there is no other course that is better or an alternative to the present system but that remains in uncertainty. That's why I challenge the Minister to do scrawl in these matters and solve this knot.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u3	A respectable president. I'm going to use this opportunity to discuss waste business and business transfers between state and rural society. I really care about my rural society, and I realize that they have an enormously important closer service to the inhabitants of this country. To me, though, waste management is simply no closer service, and it must be watched all over the country. Unfortunately, we haven't done it yet. The rural communities are taking care of this in their communities, and much too much time seems to go on between rural society to argue about where to put the next burning station or the next emergency station, or where a gas - building station should be. In a meeting in a skunk. This morning's Economic and Business Committee discussed the tax and came to visit us, both from the European Union and from the village. Sadly, everyone can read the bellies that have been passed through the tax and are not positive. It may not be a shame, but it is always very good for people to have strong opinions about paying taxes, not to be easy to raise taxes, or to add new taxes, and to be very good at paying attention. But that's where I think we need to think only about making a move. Ideas behind sentencing are the reasons why we stop growling or that we are reduced to as much as possible. The idea is that those who are contaminated will pay for it. But we need to be able to adjust things in such a way that it really is. Unfortunately, we don't have that tool today, by the way, to implement it. In fact, several times I have wondered in this talk, " Is it not time for the state to take over the waste management? ' It is close - knit to waste management, and, of course, it is best to do so by offering them a service, by its private partners more and less in most places outside the city of Reykjavík. But look at the whole country and all over the country on how we recycle material and whether we put it in the burning, the became, or the gas and the ground.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u4	Mr. President. Guðrún Bachmann, Guðmundur Borghildur, Fanning, Jón Maron, Björn Blöndal. There Guðrún is, my grandmother, and her brothers and sisters. One of the siblings bore John's Jónsdóttir, or Jónsson. And then where did my grandmother's Bachmann name come from? Yes, it has been Jón Hallgrímsson who went out to study in Germany. But because Hallgrimsson's name was so complicated, it felt better to call himself Back. That was about the end of the century. You could choose your name. Why am I remembering this? Because during the days, we received reports that the sisters Ingibjörg Sædís and Eydís Rán, who live in Iceland in 2019, grew up in great poverty and neglect and have had no dealings with their father for over a decade, now wanting to stop wearing his name, wanting to stop calling himself, and taking up a new landmark. Isn't that easy, would you think? No, the rule of the government forbids them to do so. The government forbids them to change their name because they do not have a family name far back in line. They don't get to choose. During the last assembly, we tried to change the mismanagement of man - made laws, but more part of the council, the government groups, the State Parliaments, prevented the necessary change. That's why we've decided that they're not allowed to change their names. And they shall continue to bear the name Bergsteinsdóttir's daughter, which cause them distress, because it is the will of the kingdom. The government has decided not to name Bergvík or Brimberg as they themselves have requested but to carry on a name that they do not wish to name.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u5	V.E.G. President. Since 1995, society has been systematically studying the interests of young people, and the results of the survey are considered to be very reliable. The research and analysis of this survey and basic schools are doing it and I want to use this opportunity to thank these agents, but the study is being conducted for the Education and Culture Ministry. Recently, the results of the 2018 study were presented to us by young people in the interests of students in 8th, 9th, and 10th grade. I would like to encourage ministers, senators, and members of the council to take advantage of these findings and look to them when it comes to decision making, but the report compares the year 2000. Consider key results. In general, organized social and leisure activities decline. A relative of the number of young people who go to parties has been drawn together. At the same time, attendance at social centers has been reduced. About one student in both 9 and 10th grade spends no time in outside school reading. A society with parents is growing. The percentage of parents who monitor where their children have been raised. Young people who leave after the clock. The number of evenings falls substantially. Likewise, the number of young men who leave after midnight is reduced. The consumption of caffeine has been substantially increased. Young people, especially boys, who feel that their study is pointless increase, and the number of youths who pursue less education is increasing. And young people are working very hard with their studies. V.E.G. President. We have achieved wonderful results with regard to young people's drug abuse in a systematic way. In 1998, 48% of young people in the 10th grade had been drinking alcohol in the past 30 days. That number now stands at 5%. Similarly, cigarette smoking has been greatly reduced. It's possible. It is possible to be effective if we are concerned with young ones and want to do better. The vast majority of young people in our community are very important to us. So let's keep it up, let's do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u6	Mr. President. One of the main objectives of spring-signed biographies was to create the conditions for a decrease in interest of both the home and the economy. Thus, under the agreement a decrease in growth should be seen as a result of an increase in the provision of home loans and also as a means to contribute to the enjoyment of people outside the rented market. At that time, the loss of interest in employment should enable a pay raise, but it can also be said that making employment a chance to go into a lucrative investment, which is especially important right now to slow down in the economy. It is a pleasure, therefore, that from the signing of biographies contracts, the Belder Bank's fruit dropped from 4.5% to 3.25% in several steps. Is it so happy that this growth rate seems to be turning into the interest level, but according to one month's report from the Substitute Bank, interest loans have dropped by up to 1.7 percentage points during this period. This results so far demonstrate the importance of a large three - sided joint and teamwork movement, professional drivers, and the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Yet, it is important to keep a close eye on the fact that the homes, whether they have a mortgage or a lease, are certainly enjoying the benefits that have resulted from improved interest rates on loans or under rent. Biographies depend on everyone putting their weight on the scales to build a better community. Governments will live up to their agreements of life. The budget bill contained, for example. presented a new step-traveled income tax system that will benefit primarily those with the lowest income. It is positive that the changes in the income tax system in righteousness will be fully introduced in two years, but not in three, as started at the outset. There is a ten - month prolongation of the birthworm at this time of the year and then a year of the year thereafter, a great improvement. It is not only a major step in progress for children but also a key to the struggle for gender equality. As always, the improved quality of life is a interaction of many factors, and the entire government's work aims toward that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u7	A respectable president. Rarely or never has there been more reason to have a good voice with our friends, the Greenlandites, and the Faeroeses, what is involved in our uniqueness here in the north. We have recently held one of the greatest conferences ever held in some 60 countries and 2,000 participants. I'm the official member of the Western Council, and we're leaving next week, representing the Allellis, representing the Icelanders, to Greenland to discuss the situation with our friends, our associates, and our neighbors. Since I arrived at the high Council and was invited to be in the Western Council, I have fought for it, I must admit, to grasp over what goes on at the conferences I attend when I attend our cousins home. I think we're saving our money and throwing it away when things are part of us, I don't know how many, but I see it at these meetings that we're not a lot of people that can't express ourselves or be reasonable about what's going on there. I challenge anyone who can come to that and say: If ever there was a need for a delegation of Icelanders to communicate and talk and participate in the work, it's now very clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u8	Mr. President. We know the discussion about the demands of a job driver, the requirements of a driver, and the companies working in the fields of products, materials, and people's living a lot of money. This discussion has been taken at a council hall before. However, the most serious concern of the implementation of this European directive is not the expense laid on the companies and their consumers or the fact that it was not even intended for an island but, in general, that individuals are not abdicating the acquired rights. The execution of the Commission's will in order to change the rules of employment in certain areas of employment should not at all be repetitious. In this case, there was not even a complete course to cover the five studies that each of us needed to complete. At best, about one third course data adequately prepared. This recognized the teachers of the studies that the one sitting here. The precious hours of the people working included the lives of others. spends talking and watching YouTube video all over the place and nothing. At that time, I had a talk with a driving instructor who had been asked to take on training during such studies, and he declined, including the couple. because of how bad the matter was prepared. In some cases, he felt that he had little to teach through decades of successful career. On this basis, Mr. President, it was still standing to dissociate individuals from previous employment rights. Here is yet another example of an uninjured induction of European regulations, which is completely unacceptable to individuals and businesses. I object to such tactics and challenge the Council to find ways to revise these rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u9	V.E.G. President. Young people's interest in climate and their concern for the future have hardly been missed. Of course, those of us who are at the Council need to think about how we want to react. Today there are skeptics of man - made climate change. These voices are heard mainly from foreign lands, then from the United States and Australia, and they are often on the right side of politics. First, the reasoning of skeptics is, in fact, that these are simply some left - handed persons driving, and second, this support for politicians in big corporations at the expense of the environment. Third, there is often a popu list of people who consider climate change and discussion of it to be a global conspiracy, a product of people who intend to profit themselves from all of this. We are largely blessedly free from these political views in Iceland. I believe that, of course, it is good to doubt everything. It's nice to doubt the scientists and what they claim. But in climate, there is a very powerful science. The United Nations International Committee is primarily among the members. Besides, we Icelanders can see this in our surroundings. We'll see this on the new fish stock they're looking for. We can see this about the change in the ocean. We can talk to any sailor about it. We can see this at the melting of glaciers and whales. paritaprevir Sæland Gourand sees this as soon as she goes to Greenland with the Western Council next week. There is a transformation ahead, and it is our job to choose which way to take action. Will we go on the road and ban, or will we talk about innovation? Are we going to talk about technical solutions? Are we going to talk about cooperation across the line of professional life? I think that's the way ahead. We all have to take part, right men as well as left men. We all have children and teenagers in our homes and in our neighborhood, and it doesn't matter if you're the head of an aluminium company or an general, you hear the voices from the young people. It is for us to present the solutions, and it is important that those solutions contain both the right and the left opinions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u10	A respectable president. As we know, most members of Congress, if not all, often receive letters from various interest groups, often very good letters and practical tips. I'm going to make a note of a letter I received, and I expect other senators to have also received from a company called Life Without Violence. Based on the content of this letter, the company of mothers is composed solely of the requirement that members of Congress respond to those who have authority in custody and contact matters, i.e. County officials and courts, do. Society wants us to interfere with it and change the environment somehow because the results are not right. I warn members of Congress not to respond to such recommendations, since letters such as these are available to the court. This is an application to those parties who are to be determined on a conflict basis and who demand that one member have an example of how such a decision will be made. I won't be involved in that, and I hope that other members of Congress don't think of it. People here are struggling that they demand that we replace the rules of the legal state that we have been struggling with over the years, decades, and even centuries. Wait a minute. Senators to consider this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u11	A respectable president. Just a little bit of that same letter. I didn't understand it the way it was. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son introduced earlier, far from here. But something more interesting, the cost of driving. In 2017 42.7 million, 2018 30.7 million, 12 million. K. decrease, perhaps not a large amount of money in the context of financial and physical things, but still. Estimated cost of 2019 26.1 million, 16.6 billion. K. decrease. I'd be happy to sign, I've done my job here, and I'd pay my salary and more than that. I find this to be a very positive conclusion and show how transparency simply pays off. We need to do this more and more, including. The money for day-to-day ministers and senators, too. It is documented in the council's response to my inquiry for a day-old minister to drive at the airport twice, that invitations are not considered to be benets, to repaying for the spending of daily money is not considered to be a prize. It's very important to realize what this means. This is a tax issue that needs attention. This is recognized in the answer, the official evidence of the council, and it has not yet been done. The amount of reimbursement for the benets they received from day - to - day funds has not yet been considered. All of us have an important role in monitoring. I may like to end this with a quote in the answer to my inquiry: ▪ A special assessment of the size has not been made so that it has resulted in subsidies from everyday spending. It has not been created, says here, and it actually breaks the law and the rules. As far as our senator's surveillance role is concerned, this is extremely serious, and I feel very serious that it has not been responded to. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u12	A respectable president. Human beings do much more outstanding things than related species. Man's sight is good, he is good in a long run, he walks upright, and he can easily handle things. One thing that people are also good at, and less often spoken of, is wrong. This amazing ability is likely due to our numerous and varied ways of reaching the wrong conclusion. We have a strong imagination, easily put things in a separate context, and then we have the most important quality needed to spread delusions and nonsense - a language. We can imagine something in no relation to reality and spread it wildly and crazy around the world and in later years without the countless cost or effort. The effects of this amazing ability are seen in many systems of government, religion, medicine, and the ideas of righteousness of various societys throughout history. During the past few centuries, we have had a secret weapon against the negative effects of these effective qualities, which is a scientific method. Science is the reason why we are now more than 7 billion, walking on the moon, and walking well in March of this century, perhaps in the early part of it. Science enables us to cure disease, prolong life, and improve health. Science enables us to travel in the way we do and communicate. Above all, it is science that enables us to know, understand, and understand the difference between what is true and what is false about the fleshly reality that we all share. Evolution Is Approximately As well established as the earth's orbiting, man - made climate change occurs and threatens our continued success as animal species, but we may take it seriously for granted in these days. How easy it is when mankind's natural demand for religious nonsense is greater than that of an unpleasant truth! Rather, it is to face the world as it appears to us. This means that we accept and support scientific methods in all our activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u13	A respectable president. On October 15, women were long devoted to a rurality of the United Nations, i.e. 1/5 of Earth's population. For the day's sake, the secretary - general of the United Nations called attention to the global rejection of women and girls in rural areas, often at the bottom of economic, social, and political factors, ranging from income and education to health and decision making. If this group had a good access to education and knowledge of innovation and resource use, agricultural production, food and food security would be improved and more people could be saved from hunger. This work is now up to the UN's global goals. But what's the situation here? Women living in rural areas live in rural areas and in less urban areas. In general, fewer women than men live in the most scattered communities, and studies show that in some of them, the gender's salary differences are more pronounced than the national average. Do we know if they have equal access to education, science, and technology with the rest of this country? Is job access comparable? What is their position in the birthworm system? How many miles of women drive on street roads every day? What is the availability of immigrants in this category of knowledge? There is a report on the status of women in agriculture and related articles prepared by the European Building Office of 2015. It shows that more women than men do farm work and that women's work is defined as domestic chores, not as farmwork. How does that affect us? Well, at least it doesn't. A lot of statistics about the position. We need to look intently at this group. Equality is not achieved if women in rural areas are missed, and this is particularly important in urban development projects such as Fragile settlements.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u14	A respectable president. Sir Kolbeinn H. Stefánsson was giving up on the welfare committee and the General Information and Education Committee on the mass development of disability donors. The sum of these points includes the following:Unable to connect to POP server %s. The number of energy pensioners increased between 2008 and 2019, ranging from 7% of the population at work in January 2008 to 7.8% in January 2019. About 0.4 percent of the increase can be attributed to changes in country age and 0.4% for other factors. ... The majority of the number of micro-energy transplant recipients will be attributed to women 50 years of age and older (over 40%), both due to an increase in the impact of the population, but also to an increase in the rate of disability pensioners in the group. Women are at any given time about 60% of micro-organization patients, and the differences between men and women increase with age, suggesting that policy measures need to be taken in different ways in the lives of men and women and result in this difference. ... Since January 2017, as good as 18,000 people, the percentage of population in working age has been reduced from 8.2% to 7.8%. The grouse, which has been used as a giant crutch to hit on the taste of microorganism, that microchips so greatly multiply at every corner of this country, and that the horn of this country is dead. Now it is time to stop talking about the growth of disability causing tens of millions of cost, which is now only in mind of those who have spent the past few years. We need to show by our actions that they need to be hoisted up and put in the same place as low - paying workers today, and raise them immediately by 70,000 cents. in a month so that they can live a decent life.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u15	Mr. President. A Group of Corrections has provided a bill for a legal adjustment in the laws of hereditary taxes, which means a completely new approach. This sums up a bill of restoration that the estate of the dead must be replaced by a taxation product. Instead, it becomes the inheritance of each heir. Each heir is expected to receive a discount of 6.5 million tax stocks. K. Today, it is permitted to draw 1.5 billion. K. from the total tax base of the entire estate. The loan will be stepwise to 10% of the next 8.5 million. K. beyond the rate of taxation, 15% of the next 15 million. K. and after 20%. The bill includes a significant reduction in taxation to the vast majority of heiresses and a great deal of justice. According to government taxpayer data, the median value of the death toll was 14.5 billion. K. In 2017 and the same year, the median inheritance that fell into part of each heir was 3.5 million. K. The same data show that 81% of those who inherited that year received 10 million. K. or less inherited. The tax paid by this group was about 1.3 billion dollars. A bill of restoration means that this large group will either pay no taxes or a much lower tax than the current law. Thus, the taxation of the state of this group will decrease by at least One billion bucks. Those who get more than 25 million. K. On the other hand, a legacy will pay more taxes than it is now. For example, the person who receives 50 million. K. will pay for active taxation of about 14.2% and 100 million people. K. will pay about 17.1% for active tax. This bill uses a new tone that will reduce the tax burden of 80% of an heir, but it will increase in 20% of the most inherited. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u16	Borist has requested that the session 2 and 3 be discussed, as 4 mg. 77st. Parliamentaries, who are physically related. I'm on this agreement among the presidents of Congress. This should be considered approved if no one says anything. In the context of this, the president would like to say that members of a council can, if so, choose to take advantage of an enlarged public speaking period, i.e. spoke up to 15 minutes instead of ten.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u17	A respectable president. If so, do not object on the part of the court. I intend to discuss two participants in one and the same talk. Let's discuss both the implementation of the EEA agreement on the part of me and the Icelanders. On one hand, there is a specific report on the implementation of the EEA Convention now given to the General for the first time. To date, such information has fallen under the Foreign Minister's report on foreign affairs. As far as I'm concerned, the General Assembly is specifically an explanation for the implementation of the EEA Convention by annual reports and discussions at the Assembly Hall. This underscores the importance of this unique agreement for us Icelanders. However, I intend to review a recent report on the benefits and defects of Iceland's Member States on the European Economic Area Convention. The latter report, which will then be considered first, will be carried out on a request from time to time. paritaprevir Oleaf the Ólafur of Ísleifsson, and other sorrows. Councilmen, the fact that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has brought a report on the benefits and failures of Iceland's Member States to the EEA Convention and the impact of the Convention on the United States. The request was originally submitted to a 148th legislature and reassigned to a 149th legislature council. The EES Convention's 15th anniversary was a good reason to attack such an assessment. In the last 25 years, we have greatly benefited from the benefits of the EEA Convention. Then I am not merely referring to an increase in national production and provisional individuals, as well as a large - scale export and foreign trade in general. The EEA Treaty has also provided improvements in legal and competitive environments for both consumers and professional life, which we today take for granted as a number of opportunities for science, research and education. There are so many things in our environment and in our daily lives that we probably think but is, in fact, based on the rights we have under the EEA Convention. More than that, it is important to bring up a general discussion about the EEA contract and its translation into Iceland. To respond to this request, I decided to appoint a group of three men under the leadership of Björn Bjarnason, the son of Björn, as well as the group of Bergethorra Halldórsdóttir and Kristrún Bjorn, the daughter of Heimisdóttir. A letter to the work group stated that the material of the report should primarily take into account the following: First, an overview would be made to evaluate the benefits of the EEA's share and the main solutions established by the government in the implementation of the EEA Convention. Secondly, the law frame introduced in Iceland would be evaluated in the areas covered by the EEA Treaty, but commercial, economic, political and democratic factors additionally identified. Third, development in EU/EFTA and EU relations would be considered. Changes will be evaluated as a result of EU data change, considering the position of EU and Swiss communications. Fourth, the reports published over the past few years on the communications between Iceland and the EU and the Norwegian report on the European Union's relationship with the EU would be considered. Fifth, a list of reports and textbooks related to Iceland's membership to the EEA Convention would be compiled. The workgroup report is now under way and presented as a package for the report under discussion. The report of the work group is divided into seven of the following key elements: The first chapter describes the historic trend in Iceland's discussions about participation in the EEA in 1989. The second chapter of this report includes: the implementation of the EEA Convention and the impact of its membership in the country. Chapter 3 discusses how participation in the EEA has affected the three branches of the State; execution, legislation, and judicial authority. Chapter 4 describes the individual domains of the EEA Convention and explain their development by recording new types of the contract. Chapter 5 discusses the two supporting systems of the EEA Convention, including will explain the establishment system of the Convention in the EFTA form and describe the development of the European Community institutions and how this trend has been reflected in the EFTA support. In chapter 6, we will discuss Icelandic monitoring institutions that play a role on the basis of the EEA Convention, the involvement of the European Community, the EEA's Upbuilding Fund, and the Western European states, which are or become predictable for the future outside the EEA community. Finally, chapter 7 discusses the development of European legislation on the part of the European Union from 1992 to today. The service group considers that there are opportunities to improve the implementation of the contract and set up 15 benefits in this regard. In this proposal, most people aim to highlight the issues most important to Icelandic interests and to improve the professional scope of Iceland's involvement in the Convention and its administrative affairs. A respectable president. A report of the work group provides the basis for an informed conversation about the impact the contract has had on the country and the challenges of Iceland in connection with the contract. The results of the task force are clear. Icelandic society has become involved in the EEA, and it is stated that all the interviewers, other than the members of the United States, are free country and no to EU in Norway, have considered the EEA Convention to be of benefit and benefit to those within his framework. According to the report, the group endeavored not to sit in court for the pros and cons of the EEA community, but to draw out facts so that readers of the report took their own minds. They have been looking for a structured report on issues that have proved to be complex and difficult to resolve but are connected to the EEA in one way or another. The objective would be to make it easier for politicians and all the public to weigh the rights, responsibilities and benefits of the EU Member States. In my opinion, this report will mark the task force in a discussion of the EEA agreement on the country. A third of the living people of Iceland were born after the approval of the treaty, and even more people were neither aware nor knew when the deal went into effect. In fact, a very small debate has been made about the contract since his arrest, except for a theoretical discussion on the marked and highly legal aspects of the contract. The workgroup is the basis for a careful discussion on the importance of the contract and how to improve the procedure further. In this regard, reportsmen have produced conflicting suggestions for further consideration. I believe it is particularly important that the content and results of the report be analysed and discussed more closely with the members of the Council Committee. The report of the work group shows in my opinion the unequivocal benefit of our participation, which also motivates us to improve the implementation of the contract further. This is the main outcome. The report presents a metabolic criticism of the implementation of the EEA Convention and suggests improvement. You see, on the basis of the EEA contract, we Icelanders are our own lucky carpenters. Effective participation and active interest measures are the key to success in the EEA community. That does not mean sitting on the sideline even if the contract is practical for us. A respectable president. Then I'd like to agree with the above - mentioned talk I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, the foreign secretary's report on the implementation of the EEA Convention. This report is presented in accordance with the changes taken in reviewing the General Regulation on the terms of terms of annual treatment of the EU but in Article 9. The revised rules require that the Minister of Foreign Affairs be submitted annually to the General Report on EEA case and introduced to it. In line with these rules, this report is submitted, instead of discussing EEA matters in the annual report of the minister of foreign and international affairs to the General. The report aims to provide a comprehensive overview of the implementation of the EEA contract last year and the first part of this year. That's what it's like. discussed the production of EU types in the EEA contract and their implementation in this country. It has been an ongoing project to ensure that EU types will be adopted in advance in the EEA contract and implemented here in order to ensure that the national legislation is in accordance with the rules of the internal markets of the EEA at any given time, and Icelandic companies ensure equality with internal market rivals. It is noted that a so-called EU photocopy is still a few, particularly in financial services, while a number of types in this field are awaiting recording of the contract. However, during the early part of this year, a substantial improvement was achieved in reducing the number of types that await the recording of the contract. It also says that the results of the Icelandic government during the production of the EEA have improved in recent years. The EFTA monitoring centre, ESA, is performed twice a year and shows how the EFTA countries in the EEA are able to recover during the implementation of the EU programme implemented into the contract. During the reporting period, three performance records were conducted. For all of this, Iceland met the criteria that the Import Hall does not exceed 1% and is the first time in the history of the EEA Convention, which Iceland achieves this success for three consecutive times. This result underscores that the measures under which the induction has been implemented, including with temporary funding to increase the number of experts responsible for the implementation of EU organizations in individual schemes have been relevant. Following a review of the European Parliament's Council's regulations on the treatment of the Parliament in 2010 and over the past year, there has been a significant increase in consultation and information on recruitment and organisations involved in the production and induction of EU projects at the Council. The members of the General Assembly are now being treated for all types requiring a legal adjustment prior to the EEA contract and are able to present their views on them and the directions for adaptation texts. At the same time, the information related to the minister of foreign affairs to the General and Foreign Affairs Committee has been increased. The report explains the key suggestions that have been made on improving the implementation of the EEA Convention and the implementation of these proposals. It has been suggested that Iceland's interests have been increased. According to one estimate, Iceland's best interests are better identified at the EU modeling level. Based on this analysis, the EU-type priority was set in terms of Iceland's core interest issues. The European Commission's work in Brussels has also been greatly strengthened by the increased involvement of representatives of the individual conferences. This increased participation in the Brussels field was ensured by approval of the Generals for special funds to cover the costs involved. It is also mentioned in the report that the establishment of a central EEA database has greatly improved the extravasation of EU shapes at the formative level and EU types that are considered to be included in the contract. Earlier this year, access to the database was opened to the General and thereafter to the public. A respectable president. The report explains a few of the issues that have been high in the EEA work. There has been a great debate over the recent years on the EEA Convention and the recording of individual types of the contract. These include the third energy package, the meat issue, and the general personal protection system. In particular, the debate has been due to the increasing contribution of EU legislation to the institutions of the Union. During the recording of the relevant types in the EEA Convention, it has been tried to ensure that ESA surveillance agencies are obtained such European authority on the EFTA. However, the lack of ordinances in the Constitution leads to a power hall to the conclusion that the source of power in individual cases is always subject to mental evaluation and is based primarily on reference to earlier examples of power growth. It has become evident that lines are explained as to authority for power sales. The report that I discussed in the first part of my talk gives us two advantages in this connection, either putting these in a constitution or acknowledging that it is a government protocol. A respectable president. I want to make this special subject one specific subject that will be brought up in my report on the implementation of the EEA Convention. There is now an observation into the field of the EEA partnerships to record the EU's latest EU policy on the activities of the social security system in the EEA Convention. The directive, referred to in DSG III, has been considered in the EFTA work group, in which financial and economic experts are involved. A foreign Commission was sent to be discussed in September 2014 on the basis of the Conventional Treatments of the EEA. In terms of both the majority and the 2rd percentages of the Economic and Business Committee, it is clearly stated that the recording of the model in the EEA will have to be established that the directive does not involve the State responsibility of the deep things. As a result, financial and economic experts have sought EU experts's answers to whether the relationship will interpret the directive's directive in the same way. that there is no Kingdom responsibility in the innermost parts. According to this interaction, however, EU experts believe that State responsibilities are in place because of banks. I have long warned of this legal procedure in the European Union and because it would be recorded in the EEA deal on the part of Iceland in this way that there would be a state guarantee of a bank account. When the bill of this material entered the council in 2011, although the work had not been adopted by the EEA at that time, I strongly objected to it, as it were. Parliamentaries and others can study in the public assembly. There is no time for a thorough swathing of all the evidences contrary to the state responsibility of the bank accounts in this country. It is enough to mention that the future Icesave case will be lost if it is adopted in Icelandic law. No matter how good the European Union or other people can invent, banks will go under. Let us not forget that the system that was present when the global banking crisis struck in 2008 was designed to prevent such a shock. A respectable president. I'm here to describe that I, as Minister of State of Iceland, will never be expected to be accepted by the European Commission or at the scene of the EEA Association recording and introduction of this legislation in a way that involves the State Accounting of Bank Accounts. Never. A lengthy record was set here in the conferences on the third energy package earlier this year for a small reason, as it was proposed to the council. On the other hand, the responsibility for bank accounts is serious. In this regard, therefore, we Icelanders have good reason to remain on all the rights we have under the EEA Convention when it comes to the recording and induction of this directive. It is a blessed sign of the increased interest care of the present government that Iceland is developing a clear view of this legislation in the early stages of the case. We are more likely to be able to influence this and receive the special provisions needed in the light of the circumstances in this country where the system-based risk of the banking system is the nature of the situation, according to all other than in the larger countries. I've already explained my position at the EEA Council, at the scene of EFTA, and in two-way communications that the state of responsibility for the bank accounts is not an option on the part of Iceland. I also want to make a mistake that this case is normal on the government priority list. A respectable president. In my report to the General for the implementation of the EEA Convention, there are other points that there will be no time to discuss, but hopefully will be discussed below and in the subsequent committees of the Parliament. I reiterate how much and a good change it is to discuss the implementation of the contract on the basis of a foreign minister's report has now become an annual event. The report concludes that EEA cooperation is stable, and the benefits of Iceland's involvement are high and unambiguous. The process of the contract has been growing stronger for the past few years and will continue to take the lead in doing so even more. It is of importance in the context that Iceland's stakeholders in the EEA work have been expanded and more emphasised on stakeholders at the EU modeling level by increasing the number of professionals in Iceland's Regular Committee in Brussels, based on specific budgets and priorities. On the part of the Icelandic government, the European Commission will continue to work on a course that has been determined to improve the work of the contract most afforded and to ensure the best cooperation interest in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u18	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Secretary of state for an excellent report and a good review in his speech. I must say that more often than not, I agree greatly with him about the highlights presented in this talk. I'm particularly glad that in certain areas, such as With regard to bank accounts, we Icelanders are going to take interest custody immediately, not to get into some political overage or opportunity and try to resort to an emergency. An emergency inhibitor exists, but it is hardly possible to absorb it unless we have done our homework. So I'm especially glad that the Minister highlights this part and that the European Union and our cooperation countries are very aware of our position. In the excellent report given by Bjarnason, Bergþóra Halldórsdóttir and Kristrún Heimisdóttir, clear recommendations to set up the EEA administrative center and that the Minister of the EEA will be put in charge of the situation, as is done in the Northern Ministers and the Northern Union. That has given us a great deal of experience. I'd like to know what the government has done to make arrangements for the Commission, what preparation has taken place, what discussion has taken place within the government, and whether this counsel has gone through something in the administration system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It is good to know that there is a convergence on the matter that has to do with the bank accounts. It wasn't very much that it would pass through Congress 2011, if I recall correctly. My articles can be found both in my articles and in my comments on this subject. But I agree with what. A senator that it is very important that we cultivate a course immediately, and it is very important that we have an interpolitical agreement on it. I have taken up this matter, as mentioned in my speech, and my listeners, at least in those meetings, have all had an understanding of it. But that's not enough. We have work to do. In terms of the administration station and other suggestions, I just have to say that we have just started this journey, and there's a good agreement in the government to further further further support of interest. We have taken some very specific steps. I think it also matters a bit much to hear the viewpoint of members of this discussion. I think the emphasis on the results of this report is to view this more as domestic, even though it is truly a national agreement. But that's what it's all about, and that's why we put a representative in Brussels from each department. That's what the Ministry of Education does for this job, and that's the way it has to be unless you want to create a new administration at the State Department, which I think is extremely unscrupulous. I think it's wise that the perspective is with one minister, whether it's Prime Minister or some other minister. Of course, these suggestions will be considered in the future. Simply put, the answer to the question is this: It is a great desire for the government to further further the interests of the government. It is very important to dissipate this report with members of the council and members of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u20	Mr. President. I want to say the bottom line. Secretary of state. It is important that members of the Parliament come to this matter, and there will be more and deeper cooperation across the ranks and then natural with the Ministry and the Commission and the government. I didn't feel completely clear in response to a minister's attitude to establishing the EEA administrative center and then whether he thought it right to establish a similar arrangement in the EEA community and I mentioned the matter of Ministers in the Northern Union. I felt that he did not want this to leave the State Department or that it was all in one hand. I'm asking to the highest. Minister would explain it better. I also agree with what appears in the report, and I rejoice that the Minister of Foreign Affairs will record that the EEA has become primarily internal. They are. This shows how we have been used in international cooperation by Icelanders. Prescient politicians against all categories, or the majority of people, I might want to say, have seen an opportunity to promote Icelandic society through international cooperation. They used their sovereignty and their national rights to strengthen our affairs, strengthen our community's place. Therefore, this report that I and others will discuss is further an example of how the facts are being drawn up about things that our cooperation with other countries has benefited from Icelandic society, peoples, and businesses. So I continue my questions to the highest. A minister in addition to the Board of Directors and Ministers of the EEA: How can he see these matters coming? Has he given himself a timeline on how we can strengthen the EEA case, not just within the Ministry, but from here on in the Senate?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u21	A respectable president. To answer the question first, why? Of course, a senator is a lifelong matter to care for Iceland's interests, including in this partnership. There's some kind of misunderstanding, I guess I haven't spoken clearly enough, if anyone thinks I want it all in the State Department. I was just reviewing that, first of all, this isn't all in the State Department, and secondly, I don't want it all going into the Ministry of State. That meant putting another administration into the Ministry of State. I believe we've been very lucky at the time of this deal. EFTA was bigger than it is today, and there were countries that were then considered to be no chance of entering the EU. That leads me to Sweden, Finland, and Austria. When men took this trip, the Cold War was over, and they thought that because of neutrality, they would never go to the EU. It was therefore made up of a contract that was about equal and was to be used in the long run, although it has been entered into the European Union. We benefit from it. We were just the right people at the right time. As a matter of fact, if I had to choose now, I would take pretty much everything in the contract right now, although, of course, you wanted to change something. I'm just very open to that. However, it has been my priorities since I entered as foreign minister to promote EEA interests. This subject and the report provide a basis for us to consider it very carefully. Of course, when you say that you cooperate with the council and members of Congress, that means that you cooperate. That's why this discussion is here. We're not in a special urgency of time, it's not a matter of weeks, but we're supposed to win this fast and certainly, and it would be best if there were a broad political agreement, so it would not be the whims of any individual states or governments, and it's my hope that it could. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u22	Mr. President. I'm more than willing to start my case by thanking the Minister for reviewing these two reports. I would like to stress that there is a very important need to inform the Council at all times and to have an active share in the cooperation being carried out in the field under discussion. In my case, most of all, the report being followed by a report request for the benefits and failures of Iceland's Member States to the European Economic Area. I have had the opportunity to discuss it in a public field, and in view of the short periods of time here, I'm going to concentrate on reviewing some of the factors involved in this cooperation that I believe would require detailed analysis and discussion with that in view, which must be our main subjects at any given time, to care for Icelandic interests as best, Icelandic businesses, Icelandic homes, national interests and people. That must be done, Mr. President, on the basis of knowledge, and on the basis of the perception and criticism of things at any given time. So I'm taking particular care of the work group report on the pros and cons, I thank her, and, of course, for the two reports here, I thank you for the report that is available and obviously taken by ambition and professionalism. One of its main advantages is that it clearly shows how wide the EEA organization is, stretching its fragrance in many parts of the world. The aim of the report request, which I remind the Council of the Council was to agree in three cases, such as Ministers in fact, in the spring of 2018, in the fall of 2018, and then now in the fall of 2019, with a report that was well established under discussion on the role of our Iceland to the European Economic Areas and along with a good foundation for policy development on how we would maintain our interests at each time on the basis of scientific knowledge and practicality. Of course, it may be considered how far you should go in a report to bring up weaknesses or problems in cooperation with the above. The way they approach this subject has been explained in its own way. Mr. President. I seem to have a number of recent events, which were actually brought up in a foreign minister's speech, given reasons for such analysis and discussion. Before we go any further and as long as I can remember, I'd like to thank the Minister for his declaration on the state responsibility of the bank account. I'm aware that the highest. Secretary of State and I don't look at the energy package exactly the same way. I would have rejoiced if he had shown such a spirit of concentration and a stand on that subject. Multi-counted energy packets dropped in a manner full of clarity, I allow myself to say, a new light on an important element that is the rejection authority of the EU Member States when it comes to the introduction of new regulations. The matter of safety measures when it comes to importing non-frost meat did the same thing. It has been suggested, Mr. President, that while the EEA treats with clear grounds for a case on the common EEA committee, it is not really appropriate. Thus, in view of the opinion of a prominent foreign attorney and secretary of state, Dr. Baudenbacher, in view of this opinion, both written and in the meeting of the European Commission on May 9, the Member States of the EEA Convention had the right to which they are entitled but also had doubts and warnings that this route was really possible. So Baudenbacher believed that if Iceland was to reject the third energy package, it could be a risk to the EEA deal. Interestingly, Baudenbacher saw a reason to remind Icelanders of their loyalty to the Norwegians and that their interests would be taken into account. In the United States, expert director of the Icelandic government consulted with contractual regulations that he felt were in full right to the law to activate. It was not to see that thorough legal support followed this counsel. Rather, it was especially a matter of stress as a consideration of the political consequences of the procedure. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs went to the National Institute of International and European Rights of the University of Reykjavík to give the Agency a technical opinion on what would be the legal consequences if the General rejected the release of a controlled budget for a third energy package. It is of interest to report that the Agency's review refers to the book Victorys Sigurður Líndalur and Skúli Magnússon, the European Union and the European Economic Organization, which says that the right to refuse the EU legislation in the areas covered by the EEA Treaty is certainly from a formal view angle. But from a political point of view, they still believe he's not there, at least. as long as the EFTA government wants to hold on to the EEA agreement. On the other hand, they say, and perhaps there's a little off and in it, if you can allow yourself to say so, that the source of the EFTA government can be viewed as an emergency inhibitor to be used under specific circumstances. Mr. President. It seems reasonable to understand the comment made by other scholars in such a way that under certain circumstances it is possible to use the anticipated emergency agent, provided that political soils were properly prepared earlier. In a number of scientific essays that have been published in recent years, several criticisms of the European Union, its representatives, and the implementation of the agreement are being observed. I'd like to briefly refer to it, and I believe it is very necessary for the Generals to make these critics of the scribes light. It says that by permission of the president of the EU, the World and European Court of the University of Reykjavík, the United States has shown a great cooperation upon knowing that they have agreed to make a contract in the EEA Treaty. Note, though, what follows: It has been observed that the EU is patient and has activated the resources contained in 4 mg. 102st. The EEA Convention, which includes the threat to the EU agreement, the threat to the President, I reiterate, a threat to the EEA Convention to temporarily postpone part of the EEA agreement, as shown in 5 mgr. the same standard As an example of the 2004/38/EC Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, this was delayed due to the opposition of the Icelandic State under some of the directive's directives. According to the review, after the EU activated 4 mg. 102st. The contract has had further negotiations between the parties and eventually the Icelandic government agreed that the Commission's directive would be adopted in the EEA Convention. Thus, the EU was not authorized by 5 mg. 102st. to postpone part of the Annex. The conclusion of the authors of the review is, in the above example, showing that the EU appears to be ready to use sources in 5 mg. 102. the above - quoted article, if there is a reason for the relationship. Interestingly, authors describe the European Union's conduct in a way that poses a threat. One of the Agency's authors, Margrét Einarsdóttir, traced in his editorial article, which is entitled to the European Convention's work a problem with the implementation of the EU contract ▪ recording of the secondary legislation, published in the 2016 Journal of lawyers, when there have been opinions about whether certain European types fall below the EEA's standard of law. It says that the recording of the aforementioned directive No. 2004/38 that by the permission of the President, the Council had actually had no possibility to prevent its recording of the contract from ▪ other than to resuscitate the EEA contract. This article explains that the Icelandic government, based on the original protocol, did not agree with the EEA Convention, but it appears that from the beginning the EU appears to have been determined by the Directive to fall under the terms of the agreement and that the EFTA countries must adopt it. Then the article says, with permission from the president: It seems that this view was not based on legal logic. Rather, it was rather a political assessment of the importance of the directive for the internal market. Mr. President. It must be considered that from the authors of any strong criticism of EU progress or its representatives to their negotiaters. The preceding article quotes an interview with the European Commission official who was taken in November 2008. The following texts are taken as best known, from a doctor's essay, and these texts are on their way to another Ph.D., so there is reason to listen. Here are the words of the government official from the European Union, by permission of the President: ▪ Sometimes our position is that we fell under the EEA Convention because we want these types to enter the contract. In these matters, we don't discuss the legalities. These types fall under the set of values because we say they fall under the set of values... This is illustrated in a theoretical article of attitudes that will be considered indistinguishable. I'm also going to be able to give a witness to a recent report on Stefánsson's Már and Margrét Einarsdóttir on the lines of authority and authority of the European Union and the European Economic Areas, where the possibility for EEA's institutions to go beyond the scope of their authority is taken. The report published in the 2018 Police magazine provides an example of this occurring by the institutions of the EU. It is suggested that the institutions of the EEA agree with the actions that the core of EEA's rights does not take place. It also points out that the EFTA Court interprets the main issue of the EEA Convention or the secondary legislation so that the result really means a change in the agreement. This is the case in the current scientific field of the European Economic Area and provides one of these indicators of a protocol against Iceland due to the import of raw meat products. Third, I'd like to mention that the Friðrik Árni Stefán Már and Stefánsson, due to the third energy pack, is guided by the testing of the two supporting systems when dealing with the European energy agency ACER and the EFTA, ESA. Is this an example well - known? Here, Mr. President, have been traced to some examples of weakness or problems in cooperation depending on what men choose. Although we are convinced that in many ways our cooperation has been very beneficial, we must always have open eyes and have a critical look at the EEA community and the demands on us and the requirements that we rightly have.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for the talk and agrees with him that this report is made with ambition and professionalism and is a good foundation for a discussion that provides a basis for good policy development. I especially encourage men to look at the suggestions on the arrival of the Generals in the interest department. I am glad that I also have supporters in my case of state responsibility for the bank accounts. I don't remember, either within the council or outside, that I've been given much support at the time when I took up the matter. But it's just what it is. On the other hand, the question is exactly right. A senator says we need to protect our interests. The person mentioned here will argue that we do not have to take care of the European Union, but there is a big difference between being prepared and putting it under early stages and just running to when men have won even for a decade. Hv. A senator has a general discussion about the third energy package. This remains from the discussion that one question remains, regarding the change in direction of the Middle Party leaders who arrived at this preparation and proposed at the council that this would remain the same. I want to use this opportunity, a respectable president, and ask why. A senator: Does he know about it? Has he asked the Chairman and the backup form of the Middle Party why they changed their mind? It is documented that they suggested that this should pass through the council and not include the steps we later took because of the situation. A senator is here referring to a proper review of the formative process and the things we need to do and be on guard, without a doubt especially with regard to the European Union and its officials. I'm a curious, respectable president, anyway. A senator can tell us what we do not know. Why did the Middle Party or his leaders change their mind?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u24	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. I must say, Mr. President, that I believe there is a special ceremony in the Foreign Minister's affairs when he arrives and introduces important reports of his profession for the Council. He has presented and explained two reports, one of which was set up by a special request adopted at the Council of Three different levels, and then presents a regular report on the implementation of the EEA community service carried out in his high office. We are being discussed in what ways we are taking our best interest in this cooperation, as far as it is, in some respects as we know it is, with regard to man's wealth and knowledge and all the things that are here. I can't help but admit that I'll be a little surprised that at such a festival, the Minister's career. Ministers should choose to join a group of political exposés against some men who are actually absent at least One of them is abroad because of the duties of the Generals. I'm just gonna pass this over and the Minister continues success in his office. I'm glad to hear that we are involved in wanting to protect Icelandic interests. I missed that the minister admitted that the energy package case was really big. He did not at the time do so, minimizing it. [[The president calls.]] But that leaves very serious questions in the minds of the people of the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u25	A respectable president. After a talk or two. A senator feels a little bit like I ruined Christmas. I didn't quite realize how much a festival this was. But since then. A senator refers to it, let's just keep it there. I'm not gonna torture you. A senator with that question longer. Let's just take it the way it is and stick to the occasion, that's exactly right, and I want to take this opportunity and thank you. A senator for your report request. I agree with him that it is a good foundation for discussing these important matters. While we do not agree on all matters - and I do not intend to do so because of not ruining the festival - I hope that next we will discuss how we can build both the arrangements that will ensure that the interests of interest are in the best order and how. We can discuss these things that matter, especially in the early stages. [[The president calls.]] That means we're all going to do what we can to accept when we need it, because it's going to need this cooperation, like everything else.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u26	Mr. President, just a moment. I would love to agree with the highest. Ministers and others who have stressed that we are applying much determination in this process all, which is long and rigid. In fact, I believe the energy package is a very useful guide in this. In a report dated March 19, which is a legal opinion, submitted by legal advisers of foreign ministers, there are such warning words that it would have been absolutely necessary that they had appeared much earlier and could have been used much earlier in this process, including a number of earlier. On the basis of the firm warning words that the highly esteemed legal advisers of the government shed light on by their opinions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u27	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator of excellent speech, celebrating this feast day, this is a festival. I just wanted to think about the future and the future. A senator owns our presence in the EEA. I'd like to ask, if you don't mind me asking, how is it? A senator can see that coming. We'll definitely stay in the EEA, won't we? Are we not sure that we will receive some of the suggestions presented in this report? Is it not our mutual understanding that it was a good step that was taken at a festival in its time to become a member of the EEA?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u28	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I have to admit, the subject of the questions as well as the other questions. A senator directs me to a somewhat Spanish degree so that I have had the opportunity to give a public review of various matters, nationalities and other matters, and have always put much emphasis on the active involvement of Iceland in international cooperation. As it happens, once you have been trained in economic science at a university, students are soon made aware that prosperity is particularly dependent on the success of business dealings. This is a vivid example that might highlight how the Icelanders were able to break free from poverty or from poverty to the rock - mass, and later from riches to the rock - mass. That was because it was at that time that we always had a market open for our products. So I've been sponsoring the European Economic Area agreement since the first day. It was suggested in its own time that this was primarily an agreement that would have the aim of paying for the access of Icelandic products into a coordinated and integrated European market and on which basis I have supported it to this day. I, however, allow myself, Mr. President, to look at this cooperation in a critical way at any given moment, with the idea that we can best protect our interests when they are alive. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u29	V.E.G. President. I apologize for having become so bold as to ask this, but I was just, having not sat here at the council under all the energy package talk, but rather been an observer in town, not completely aware of the pattern of the Central Party, especially of our ongoing being in the European Economic Area. I have to apologize because asking questions like this is extremely rude. But I just think it's very important that the people and those who watch these broadcasts understand where the senators are going.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u30	Mr. President. I thank you again. A senator, and there's no reason why. A senator to have any apology, I just reiterate my thanks to you. Senator. The energy package speech was about the energy package. All the time. However, as I endeavored to draw up my talk earlier, the energy package discussion unexpectedly shed light on certain aspects of this cooperation. Most of all, I was amazed when I realized that I had the highest. The minister of foreign affairs seemed to think of us as having the whole contract if we allowed ourselves, if we dared to follow the counsel of the government's legal advisers as the main proposal for the matter, the Friðrik's Árni, Hirst and Stefánsson Quantsson, to take the case back to the common committee. It is this surprising sight that I must admit to being surprised. In my earlier speech, I also associated the matter with security measures for unheated meat, and I rely on this subject on a solid theoretical basis, and I quoted articles in the lawyer magazine and elsewhere. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u31	A respectable president. I was going to try to return without talking about the third energy package. I don't really know if it will work in the wake of the words. A senator has made his last reply. I was on my way back to sleep. paritaprevir Unnur Brá Konráðsdóttir Konásdoddótttir. I get a little confused about exactly the middle party and the what. A senator envisions continued cooperation in the EEA if the third energy package was a cornerstone because, at the same time, it was. I'm sure a senator remembers as much as I was talking about regulations and directives from 2009, i.e. The European Union's ten - year - old work, which had been in a lot of discussion in the European Union and in the administrative capacity here for a very long time. It's like the highest. The minister of state went in before we got here. The members of the Central Party to suggest that it be approved when they were in the government. I don't care personally why the reversal became the highest. Secretary of state spoke of. I don't think that's relevant. There is evidence, regardless of whether they were presented in the previous year or in the previous meeting. What I'm trying to say is that all of these combined, I feel like I'm making a case for each other. A senator with regard to Iceland's relationship with the EEA is extremely complex. If we are to remain there, it must be on the basis that we are now. And if not, then on what basis? How would that be? A senator wants to change the arrangement or how Iceland shares in the cooperation? I am afraid to suggest that we try to keep the third energy package out of the material because if it is something that causes reversal or special speculation, I feel very confused about how a senator will see the rest.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u32	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his answer. I'm going to tell you that I think we'll continue to continue the global cooperation we have developed and continue to share in as we have done, by having open eyes, by being awake, by working on the basis of knowledge and intelligence, information. It is important that our participation in international cooperation and policy development and our conduct there be thoroughly discussed at the General and supported by the Parliamentary wishes. That's why I made a big point of my speech earlier this afternoon at my discussion, with two reports related to the cooperation of the European Economic Area, that we are participants in various forms of cooperation. We are founders of the Atlantic alliance that I have previously described as one of the most important decisions ever made from the Republic's establishment, and it has organized us into Western democracies. I believe that we have benefited greatly from that cooperation. We are founded on the sisters' institutions of the World Bank and the World Bankment Fund, and we have freely shared in the power of our sovereignty, which we have thought we had a purpose in and who served our interests. We have tremendous interest in keeping open and paying markets for our products. We need it very much, and that's why I've supported the European Economic Area Convention. But I've let myself, including. To this day and to the past, to point out certain challenges that we can call what we face in the material, and I urge that we take them and not put our heads in the sand and pretend they don't exist. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u33	A respectable president. I must admit that I am even more confused than before. Hv. A senator said that he wanted us to take part in this cooperation with open eyes, with intelligence and knowledge, and with good discussions and that we shouldn't put our heads in the sand, etc. I couldn't agree more. Senator. As far as I can see, that's exactly what's been done in the third energy package -- I specifically mention that it was a party. A senator who spent a good time in the summer discussing that matter had quite a discussion. I wondered: " How can we keep our eyes open? How can we build more on our intelligence? How can we build more on knowledge, and how can we get better discussions? A senator, but the one we've received through the third energy package? That I know is the thing that I think the Council has taken in what was open to the eyes, based on intelligence, the most knowledge, and the greatest discussion of all. I wondered what you can do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u34	Mr. President. It was not surprising that I mentioned a date in my first talk. I mentioned the date of March 19th. I need to think about whether I'm going to do it right, but it's the date of the legal opinion of the two patriarchs of Friðrik's Friðriksson Hirst and Stefánsson's Már, who, of course, was key plus other excellent data available in the energy package. The reason I do this is because it presents a legal opinion of specialists, expert experts in the highest order who are called to work by the minister of foreign law itself. Such warning words, on the other hand, about the possible conflict with a constitution and about the fact that foreign people will receive certain conditions, the participation in the country's important energy resources, that this report would have had to be done much earlier. That's why I'm so happy for the discussion that we're using ourselves in this process all in the past, but we've made a fortune in the energy package. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u35	Mr. President. I have a script for a talk I was about to give, and after a while, I will. Of course, it is tempting to dwell only on the answers that have come here. An answer to a what? A Brá Unnur's Konráðsdóttir at what point. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson was very interesting. I've heard a lot about the report since it came out on the radio and here. He reminds me of a friend who once went to a concert, and when I met him later, he said: "The concert was great. But then there was a 20 - minute list, where he traced down every song and had become a bit sour. That's how I've felt. A senator being. He always starts by declaring support and how wonderful everything is about the benefits we have gained from this contract. Then, as he speaks any longer, the bad side will begin to fall. He speaks of these matters with intelligence and knowledge, as if they were to be found only in the Middle East. March 19th was certainly an opinion presented by two fine scholars and contained a tip. As far as I can remember, the government did exactly what the government did and put in place extra bills, despite the fact that I and many others feel no need for it. But that's another story. Hv. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Isleusunsson, along with 12 members of the council, asked for the full assessment of the consequences and effectiveness of the EEA Convention in Iceland. V.E.G. The minister of the foreign office responded very quickly and safely and established a three-man team that had the responsibility of assessing the benefit of Iceland from the EEA community. That was discussed with 147 individuals from four different countries. The Member States were presented in a historical context and covered most of the aspects of the contract. That's a reason to say thank you at the very beginning. Minister of Foreign Affairs for the case, of course, very quick, but not as much as the press authors, Björn Bjarnason, Kristrún Heimisdóttir and Bergþóra Halldórsdóttir, and others who came to work on this report. I think I must initially describe my joy and, in fact, my surprise, because I don't think I have or have never read such clear and direct text related to foreign affairs in Iceland. This direct conclusion is that taking part in the inner market of Europe was the greatest happiness. The vast majority of us realize that in the United States we were involved, and without the contract, we would be much more likely to become isolated, stopped. This could have called for a return to Icelandic life, considering the world around us. In other words, the EEA Convention may have brought us into the modern world. If it has been the idea behind this request to increase the suspicion of the contract, this scheme has failed in a number of ways because the fact is that Europe's cooperation, which might be much greater, has made us more successful, innovation, competitiveness, and general prosperity than I think most people have suspected. Of course, it also plays a major role when it comes to strict demands on social, consumer, and environmental issues, which are major issues today. For 25 years, we have had equal opportunities and places throughout Europe. This is important for working people, but no less students, who return to more knowledge and better society in Iceland. So I think there's no doubt in the world that it's the greatest benefit of this deal. Of course, I forget to mention something that is important and that is not just bare on trees but perhaps rooted in our society, which, of course, is what cultural and educational institutions have benefited from the cooperation. Still, it seems to me that some of the talks brought here that there is good reason to get on your feet and be on your guard because the critics are so critical that I suspect that it is possible, and they are trying to make all of this suspicious. In view of that, it may have been great that we spent over a month in the debate on a pack of energy three because I think that it brought us together and other groups that may have expressed doubts and spoke for the importance of the agreement. So I agree with what. Ísleifsson The talk about a pack of three energy was a big deal, but perhaps it is not the same as it puts into it because the energy package was very small. I don't agree with him that the matter should be a special guide for the council, at least. none of these events. Hv. A senator only talked about the visit of Baudenbacher, and I kind of have to stop there. Of course, it would have been much more beneficial for the Middle Party and Ólafur Ísleifsson if they had seen fit to sit and listen to what was going on there. But this Baudenbacher, the former president of the EFTA Court, is out of the court, and is a source of advice, and so he took it up at the beginning of the meeting, discussed things from a broader point of view than the attorneys who were given a very specific assignment and needed to answer. He is a European, who has been living in the circle of this contract and of European lives for decades. He talked about things both from a legal point of view and from a political point of view. He expressed himself in a most exhilarating and decisive way. Among the things he mentioned was the need to look at these things from two points of view. On the one hand, there is the legal situation and the political situation. I'm not going to do anything in the political world, but I don't think everyone realizes that by going out of the European Union and with the refugees that the European Union has been dealing with in Greece, Italy, and Spain, the European Union has to approach the subject from other forms of friendship than if all had been developed. This is normal, so would we. I'm just gonna stop at the legal part. There, Baudenbacher said that it was indeed right for Iceland to have the possibility of rerouting this case into the joint EEA Commission of the Princes but if there was no agreement, which would probably appear to be a political environment because the EEA deal could never be just a legal document, but it will always be political and shaped by those who make the contract and who negotiate, and if the case went before the courts, he said and was very clear, there was a very small chance that we would ride a fat horse from that part of the case. Because then the time line is everything. And what does he mean by that? Yes, it's how we've acted on the day we come back in with the matter. If we consider the fact that we have had our case in hand for ten years and at no time, we made a comment to the issue that the middle class made as a subject for us. It is even more painful to see that the current chairman of the Central Party and the current Parliamentary president were the key players at that time. So I thought nothing abnormal, and actually very normal and just out of the highest. Secretary of State, to think about it in the exact opposite direction. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson because it's important. This is the key to the matter, how we promote the matter. In the last few weeks and months, politicians have suggested that Europe has little other than elements and foreign countries that are seeking Icelandic resources. The conclusion of the report, however, is a writer's explanation. It is that the development of the European Union's further arrival that the European Union's Scientific Centres are designed to enhance our impact on the shape of the EEA and thus expand and strengthen the sovereignty. To do so, of course, we need to consider the necessary interests of others. Now I'm gonna jump over a chapter of my speech because I spent too much time talking, but I'd like to mention a few things anyway. First of all, we have to make improvements in Iceland's Constitution. In the United States, we have long spoken of the need for a new constitution, and there is a need to change and make specific regulations that will allow us to have international cooperation, i.e. Salivation regulations. I think the press agrees with this, and they say that, for example, it's a doubt. Iceland's constitution of home is full of involvement in the EEA and that it weakens our position in cooperation with our countries, especially Norway and Liechtenstein. According to my opinion, the Icelandic people must go further and develop open expeditors that make it possible and possible for the nation to, if they wish, to achieve further and larger international commitments and cooperation. I think it's the issues that await us, the fourth technological revolution, the climate problem and other such, that there are findings of which we cannot be fully involved, and not even the problems that can be overcome that are different from those that have far more cooperation between the nations. Therefore, the report says that the EEA is fighting the entire population, and it should be avoided as a foreign source of appeal. In fact, when it comes to us politicians, authors also have interesting improvements, saying that we need to be more concerned with these things and to follow more closely the responsibilities laid upon us, to influence things sooner. I agree that the implementation of the EEA contract needs to be coordinated in a strong way by initiative, interest protection and follow-up. It would be nice to review this well - prepared, well - prepared report. There are, like, 15 replacements, and many of them can be accepted. But I think we're supposed to go further, but there's another story, and maybe we don't have a discussion here. I think it has often proved that our bioavailability to a stable and more powerful currency would create new and better opportunities, security for our homes and parishes, and stability for small and medium-sized innovation companies who want to grow but eventually have to slip out of our economic system as it is today. I understand there's more disagreement than the EEA deal itself but I think time will eventually bring us in and I'll celebrate it. This is a long - term discussion that we need to devote much more time to. As soon as we need to be diligent and to use every opportunity to maintain the facts, we also need to be sure, sounds to me, to be alert to the political, nationalistic forces that want to build a fence around the country and think that we are temporarily the best equipped.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u36	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his excellent speech, and I agree with many of the points there presented. I was hoping that a senator would declare that we should be able to settle matters in Icelandic politics to protect the EEA, but not to be dealing with it, as we have done, whether to enter the European Union, but I did not want to. I'm asking why. The importance of going into the European Union first, since he entered it. A senator has some concerns in this regard. Now, we can't assume that there will always be an expression in Icelandic society. In the worldwide financial breakdown, we were impressed with the way it played us. I think most, if not everyone, would agree that it was good for us to have our own currency that really helped us. Had it not been, we would surely have seen far more unemployment, and now it was sufficient, not to be viewed any deeper. Also, we are so fortunate in the EEA that we have our own business and we don't have to pay the expensive amount of access in the European Union as well as we don't have to participate in the common marine policy and agricultural policy. Is there a problem? A senator would be concerned about what I mentioned, which would inevitably be involved in going to the European Union?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u37	Mr. President. First, I want to declare it, because it's the highest. Secretary of State missed it from my speech, that, of course, I want to protect the EEA agreement. I think that's exactly what the energy package discussion has put us together to do. But in time, I want to go even further. Yeah, I'm really worried about things, and I'm really worried about everything I do in life, and sometimes it's been so that what I've been worried about has finally paid me the most. When it is said that it was good for us to have our own currency when things went worse and fell, let's also remember who was who really lost it. Who are usually the ones who lose weight when a currency falls or falls? Then the export branches need help, and they go into the pocket of the remuneration. So they have to look at things in different contexts, and I think the pros and cons are at both sides. Some have said that a dollar is good because it actually shares the load that falls from collapse or falls on everyone. But it's not like that. She has been quarreled with all the ordinary people, all the people in the country, while the big production has gone on and on, in the last 10 to 15 years, and in the process of detrusion. There is also a concern that I would like to ask the highest. Minister of Foreign Affairs to see if he doesn't think it's peculiar. With our own business it is to answer that I believe that in the European Union we would simply have better access to more markets because I believe for a small nation, two-way contracts are weaker. In terms of agriculture, it would be good to have a slight fracture on it, especially for farmers, so that they can begin to obtain a decent standing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u38	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear that our agreement is to protect the EEA agreement. I couldn't quite figure out what was going on. A senator was going through the crown gangs. When it drops, it doesn't come down on the exports. It is the exports that all of them benefit from, but the public is affected, and a number of others are dependent on the import, increase in goods, and then often see inflation, and it is indeed a defect. We have also felt that growth has been higher than in many countries we compare with when today seems to be changing. There is no perfect thing, and certainly not having your own currency, but I think the Icelandic society will get really bad out of it if there's a lot of unemployment, especially among young people as we can see. In the European Union and then not being bitten by the needle with the euro, it is clear that if it is to be effective, it must take major action that is not political. Regarding business matters, we can compare EU and EEA business networks. We also know that we have a much more liberal business policy than the EU. We have 90% of tax freedoms while there's about 26% in the European Union, which means that if we walk in here, the price would be high on the lips here that don't have tolls right now. It's all been revealed. This is not to say that agriculture is not overreached in the European Union. Much of the access fees that we would make would now be involved in subsiding agriculture in other countries. But if we're gonna jump up the agriculture, we can do it ourselves, because it's totally under control.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u39	Mr. President. I agree that we can completely jump the agriculture ourselves, but for that we need a different government. I may not have been clear enough before, but I was just explaining that when you walk, money from the public wallet is taken and the export branches are profiting. They do not participate, they do not participate in the calamity that then strikes ordinary people in the land. [[Investigated: Unemployment.]] That's right, unemployment can be a difficult challenge, and it's one of those pluss and minus we have to deal with. Here, however, the workforce has been needed, and I have no faith that we will have no greater benefit than the rest. It is also true that there has been historical low interest levels, the lowest of which have been known for a very long time. However, it is not true that there is no significant difference between the European Union and the Northern European Union and Iceland. I think we simply need to respect the declaration of most political leaders, including the chairman of the Independence Party, to allow the nation to make a decision on the decision to make for continued business discussions with the EU. Then we just do like wise people, we sit down, we take the pros against the faults, and we vote for our national votes. On the other hand, I think that when we talk about international cooperation and communication with countries, we may start off at times over evaluating whether we will get more dollars or if we will give more money because it is all about all kinds of things, about personal worth, and where we will share with the European nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u40	Mr. President. I wish the Icelanders to congratulate everyone with 25 years of successful cooperation in the EEA. I find it very difficult to believe that 25 years have passed. I think that at that time, we'll soon be fully satisfied with the vision of bringing us into this partnership. I agree with what we've learned here that it was a leap into modern times. We jumped into modern times first after World War II, and this may have been a leap of two. I look at this breakthrough, when this contract was signed by the part of Iceland, as the end of the 50 - half - share system, or as many of us knew it. This report is very good, and I was privileged to be introduced by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, where we had a very interesting, good conversation. I think the report shows black on the white merits of the cooperation for us Icelanders. But there's always a flaw in the gift of Njörður, and I think that might have been the case. In those 25 years, there may be poor actors who do not know how to start this big stage, bigger stage. But I can't blame the stage. I think bad actors are bad actors, no matter whether it's only Iceland or the European Economic Area. So I'd like to say one thing to the skeptics of this cooperation, whether on the basis of the resource, which is the energy, the sea route, the agriculture, nature and water, or whether it is out of total sovereignty, that we would probably solve a lot of things with a new constitution, since it clearly states that all resources are in the national possession of eternity. There's a law on a hall of sovereignty, and I agree with what happened earlier that it could be even clearer and more modern. But there is also one thing in the new constitution that may be forgotten in this context, i.e. that it is put in the hands of the people to demand national payment if there is any interference or some dissatisfaction within the cooperation, as well as the initiative of the nation, so that the people can ask the People to consider certain issues that concern the public, but a body has no charge to consider. I think a new constitution would solve much of these matters so that skeptics of cooperation should be able to be content. I'd like to talk to the report specifically about the effects on the young generation, but we are so happy to have a educated young generation in the history of the republic. I would especially like to talk about the possibilities and opportunities of the young generation and our future as a state and, in particular, the cooperation programmes of the European Union that we are able to participate in through the EEA Convention. Rannis estimates that since 1992 over 40,000 Icelands have participated in European cooperation with EU cooperation programmes. That's more than a tenth of an Icelander. Iceland's budget has been substantially higher than the financial commitments due to the participation in the period, and there will be a significant increase in funding since 2014. Ranni has been in charge of Iceland's three largest programmes since 2014 and has achieved a thorough analysis of Iceland's effectiveness since then and compared with the results of the Northern and Ireland, Luxembourg and Malta. It shows that the success rate of the Icelandic candidates in open competition is above average and funding per capita is highest in Iceland by control countries, combined and individually. The budget for the three European Union cooperation programmes, most of which are involved in a significant increase despite a recession of the EU total budget during this period. These are the very plans for research and innovation, education, youth, creative articles, films, and culture. However, it is important to stress that the greatest benefit of participation in EU cooperation programmes is not always as obvious as the financial one, but the benefits towards knowledge, innovation, the linking of Icelandic scientists, teachers, students and all other participants from businesses, partners and institutions. The EEA has proved to be extremely important enterprises in infrastructure and innovation. A company such as Marel and Nox Medical would not have been as successful if it were not for them. Nox Medical, who specializes in the development of sleep research software and software, has moved into another dozen billion national payoffs. Since the establishment of the company, five million people have been diagnosed with sleep problems. Bioavailability in Europe's markets and the implementation of European regulations is crucial to an enterprise like this and is the basis for them to build up their work in Iceland. The Four Freedoms, i.e. Free flow of goods, services, capitals, and people unique in a business agreement allows companies like Nox Medical to recruit a large percentage of their experts from other EEA countries. Similarly, the Icelandic company can run a business in Germany and England that would not be appropriate if we did not have the four freedoms. Of course, it must not be forgotten how important the EU educational programme is for business cooperation with university and international research society. Since 2011, Icelandic companies and institutions have participated in 211 projects related to the European Commission's research and innovation programmes. This has turned 92 million euros into an Icelandic scientific and innovation society. As we look at the share of approved EU institutions in Icelandic companies and institutions, the share ratio has been 18◯20% for Iceland, but in general, the share is 14 Acidification in other EU countries. A number of Icelandic companies, partners, institutions, and particularly young people have been active participants in the partnership. Food, Esseker, Skafni, Curio, Nox Medical, IceWind, Genis, Aurora Seafjord, GEORG, geo, Buco, MarkMar, NewOrka - I could count more all day long. These companies wouldn't have any business here in the country if they weren't for the EEA, anyway, part of them. I assume most people have heard of Erasmus. There are infinite opportunities for young people's education in all parts of Europe. We have the best educated race in the republican history. Much of the EEA work is thanks to. I don't want us to limit our young people's potential for education, innovation and infrastructure. Therefore, I would like us to participate in this cooperation in the same way, accept a new constitution, participate in the cooperation, at least Twenty-five more years, if not anymore. I think that's a prerequisite for the future in Iceland and a prerequisite for the future of young people in Iceland. We do not want to lose our young people permanently. With the EEA, we can cooperate throughout Europe without moving on. We can stay here. So I hope to see the continued successful cooperation of young people and the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u41	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. We share the view that the EEA deal was good for Iceland and that our participation in it would provide a basis for a better community, which is designed to attract young people so that young people can choose to live here rather than abroad, i.e. ... Icelandis competitive toward other countries. I'd like to ask you what. A senator to the future. When I asked for the answer, there was a why. A senator has not declared his wish for us to take part in the cooperation for 25 more years so that I can see that the senator wants us to do so. But what about involvement in the European Union? That's what I'm talking about. A senator stating that Iceland is the best city outside the European Union itself and in strong and good relations with Europe through the EEA?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u42	Mr. President. Yeah, that's an interesting question. Here's a report on the EEA partnership and I think it's possible to discuss cooperation without each of us responding to their views on whether or not to enter the European Union. I believe this has been a very successful teamwork. Pirates don't have a European Union policy, but I can declare that I am a bit of an opportunistic myself when it comes to the European Union. I don't love it in many ways - both pros and cons. But while it's there, I think Iceland is a very bad decision to stand outside, but the EEA deal certainly makes it a lot easier. I think the EEA is successful and that we can well continue to do that. But in the long future, I would like to see a European Union body. Of course, we can determine how deep we want to go through the EEA agreement that may be harder for us in the European Union. But then I believe we always have a new constitution in our defense. If we succeed in accepting a new constitution, I think we will be saved and the future will be ours, whether it would be in the European Economic Area or in the European Union itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u43	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. As the senator crossed over, the young people we naturally hope to see their advantage in choosing a home in Iceland and on the basis that this cooperation gives us can make us even more secure. But how important it is that we also keep our cards on the induction game, that we always stand guard and take care of our personal interests when we bring in and that we watch right from the start what is in the pipes, and that we might put a little more energy into it. I think we must agree that the emphasis is the highest. During the years that followed, a minister of foreign affairs has spoken a great deal of concern. I'd like to ask a question at the end. Senator on consumer protection. Of course, our presence in the EEA has had a tremendous impact on consumers and, in fact, a revolution in Iceland's legislation on consumer protection since we entered the relationship, no, in the EEA, and we're not finished with it. It will continue to weigh heavily on consumer protection. The discussion has only occurred here in other issues related to consumer protection and the EEA treaties that we could just do it ourselves. But maybe it would have been easier to introduce all the rights that the Icelandic consumers have received in the wake of our involvement with the EEA Convention. I think it's a bit of a basis for that. One senator was talking about that an Icelandic society is competitive in the eyes of young people who are choosing to live.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u44	Mr. President. I don't know if I misheard that the Senator was asking for a relationship card on the basis of consumer protection or whether there was a miscommunication. But, yes, consumer protection is an advantage, one of many in the European economy. There's so much in there. I have, for example. A very positive view of various regulations and recommendations that have come from there because I think the Icelandic government is immature in many respects. We don't have the right to work on e.g. careful consumer protection. We haven't had any luck to do that. We don't have a chance, that I think, in such a small community, and the government and the government have made a lot of money from this cooperation, not just consumer protection. I think we would agree that it may not be wise to listen to the comments of skeptics regarding the European cooperation and to close some of the opportunities and possibilities of young people and to isolate them here at home by criticizing this cooperation and perhaps by focusing on their faults. In that relationship, I'd like to mention one thing, but it's a form of cooperation that we haven't participated in so far, but we could think twice about. This is a special interest in Pirata and is the European Space Program, or, by permission of President, The European Space Program.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u45	A respectable president. It's amazing to be sitting in the hall in this wonderful house, in the hall of this country's greatest power of democracy, and we can talk about the oldest council and all that, and listen to the metropolitan discussion of one of the most important steps that Iceland and I can make at the time. I particularly thank you for the fact that this report has been prepared, both reports requests for making the request but also the highest. Secretary of State for taking good care of this and no fables or proselytizing of ordering people at once. It has meaning for the people on a committee like this. I think it's been a lot of luck that we got these three people to do the review, draw out the facts that have followed us, and we got through the EEA together. These individuals are Björn Bjarnason, who has one of the greatest knowledge in Icelandic history and foreign affairs, Bergþóra Heimisdóttir and Bergethra Halldórsdóttir. Unlike people and people in many places, but in my opinion, we present the things that matter to us; we approach things with moderation and respect; but most of all, they impart this report, which is fact - directed. They take the way to draw out the facts, and I want to celebrate, especially if more time was not given. We would have needed more time to go deeper into this, map the benefits, and defects. Then our present objective is to evaluate it from our viewpoints, our criteria and interests for the Icelandic community how we then measure the EEA deal. It is of utmost importance that we see the whiteness in this report and the facts that we face after this married partnership for 25 years. I came home last night from NATO, where I learned that there is no information for the generations that come after me and most of the people here at the council, and there is something to consider. Younger generations do not have much knowledge of the importance, nature, and content of NATO. This is shown in surveys. It's not something I'm making up. It's because you see that there's more information about why we're involved in the work together, the importance of it for an Icelandic community. The same is true in many ways with the EEA Convention. I think it's a good thing for the press to say that we're going to take on a given section. They mention the medical card that thousands of Icelanders have used, and what my children, my friends, have been able to do, go and learn anywhere, apply for strength through culture and science, which we would have received only because we're partners in the EEA Convention. This is extremely important. The importance of the agreement has been widely observed, and last week in the decision-making week, a number of companies we visited brought in exactly the importance of our becoming members of the EEA Convention. I can give an example, and not just the companies that we have blessedly seen grow and thrive, such as Nox Medical, Marel, Völku, Curio, and Assur, and all these great companies that have had enormous significance for us and Icelandic society on giving our young people an opportunity, as well as to form in the airport. It was established by the Airport Associates Corporation that they set out after the EEA contract arrived. Then that market opened up, and a certain competitive environment opened in aviation market, although an Icelandic rule has long been taking its place, developed some of the only major people on the market, is it so that we have a powerful company that gives hundreds of people the opportunity and work, and we can serve more. And speaking of the flight: the Member States of the EEA Convention opened the inter. potential for Icelandic aircraft to land in the United States via the EEA community. Then a lot of doors were opened. This helped us to land there at any airport. Of course you can also ask: What do we Icelanders do with the factors that are not in the EEA Convention? Then I would have thought over the years that we would take advantage of the opportunity to press it even more, for there we have the opportunity to show more boldness and to have more freedom to shape our rules. What do we do there? I'm pointing to the agriculture. There is no greater freedom. It is not opening the market or promoting competition. It is our special rules. That means less consumer protection. Then we have an exception to the general rules of competition. A good example of this is when we do not have the means to do so, including the following: beyond, through active international cooperation, we are fully involved in international cooperation. We have been blessed with the Icelanders when it comes to the EEA deal. The energy package has been over here a lot, and I agree with what people have said: It wasn't the thing to blow up. However, there is a warning to us that we would like the EEA contract to live and prosper as long as we are not members of the European Union. I hear the members of the Independence Party and Ministers are coming up here asking what we want with the EEA deal. It is clear on our part that we want it to thrive and grow while we are not members of the EU. Of course, there were other things that the energy package speech showed us. It is a warning to all of us when certain elements, the M-group, as I call them, in Icelandic society, whether it's the Central Party, the Mogg, or even within the Independence Party and the forward Party, have shown a certain tendency to talk the EEA deal down and I'd like to warn you. That's why I especially rejoice that we spoke up, we answered claims that some call bullshit and nonsense. To some extent, it is possible to agree, at least not listen to the answers given very carefully. I'd like to compliment myself. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Foreign Minister for the answers given and the Foreign Affairs Committee, which were progressive in answering questions raised, perhaps with good intentions or for some other purpose. All the answers were very much answered. As we look at the timeline, it's ten years, and we Icelanders did exactly what the EEA treats us to do and to do, and this report encourages all of us to do, i.e. ... trying to resolve differences, not in late stages, but in earlier stages, allowing experts and government officials to succeed in previous stages and resolve matters. I think it's extremely important, and I thought it would be good to see that the authors held exactly the same opinion, to be a responsible participant from the very beginning. There was a lot of talk about the emergency inhibitor at its time in connection with the energy package talk. Is he there? Yeah, he's there. But if the emergency inhibitor is new because people don't do their homework or because there are some categories in trouble and need to focus on something other than themselves, then it can be disastrous for the EEA community. Of course, if there is a real emergency, he will be there. At least that's my attitude toward this show. I'm especially happy that the report also says that professional institutions and their activities are to be viewed as opportunities for the EEA, but not as a threat. This is not appeal, as many people try to point out, including In the middle of the party, it's an agreement to conform to rules. Let us remember that 147 people spoke to each other. What was the tone of each one of them? Except two: No to the Norwegian people, which are natural thoughts. There would have been a sound now heard from the corner if Ja to EU had been interfering with this, then there would have been talk of involvement with the national sovereignty of our Icelanders. Then it was free Iceland, which, in my opinion, is contrary to that group. But it was just those two parties. Everyone else, and it was stressed by the press at our meeting on the Foreign Affairs Committee, trying to focus on being part of a global program. When our people, whether young or old, begin with a sceptre company, they can assume that they can go abroad and say, "Dear friends, we have exactly the same rule as you do. It is an incredibly important obstacle that has been pushed out by the EEA Convention. It was stated by one news editor that they tried these interviews with the labour market partners and others to draw out what was actually up for the EEA agreements. They always told the interviewers that they pushed them aside because of the tremendous amount of interests of belonging to a whole, part of a nation, and have something to say about it. And we Icelanders, as the report shows, have much to say about that. If that's the case, and it's even there. The energy-packing alert for us who want to be in international cooperation, would like to support the EEA agreement, prefer to go in the EU but still want to fit the EEA Convention, not only that it is spoken but that it is undermined - and very easy, as tried specifically, to undermine the EEA Convention - you have to ask: What do men want? This is very clear, and it has been made very good in the report, and other experts have also noted that we Icelanders will not get one more contract. The two-sided contracts today will not equal the EU contract. What, then, would that be? It is all right to review unacceptable contracts in the hope that they will be better than in this case. It's quite clear that we don't get a better deal, a national agreement, but the EEA deal, only if we do what I say in the EU. That's gotta be what they're thinking. The development now in two-sided contracts as well as off-launch agreements is trying to cross the EEA. Yet, that will not be achieved. It is quite clear if Canada's contract with the EU is violated that it does not provide Canada near the same opportunities or rights as the EU contract gives us Icelanders. Although me and the Icelanders would like to achieve a strong deal with the United States -- I warn that we are going to mix business with the United States of America with our own protection interests - and if and when we negotiate with the United States, it is very unlikely that we will achieve as much cooperation as we have in the United States as in our educational and scientific partnerships, medical cards or the rights of individuals throughout the EEA. It's a golden gem we have to fit together. That's why I'm glad to hear what came out through the energy package talk that we, who want to watch the EEA deal, are on our watch. But it's probably best to keep the secret that I'd wanted to see that money was a lot earlier, and we got into some of this trouble because the government groups, or perhaps especially those in the Independence Party, were not determined enough to take this position, possibly because of these members of the Central Party. But okay. The steps were then taken, and it matters, and I again stress that I am pleased with the way people handled the matter after they finally made that decision. A respectable president. I see time is running out. I was just getting started. I'd like to underscore this on our behalf in the exorbitant that we want to protect the EEA agreement. We welcome this report, which highlights the very importance of the steps we have taken in international cooperation that our sovereign nation has strengthened our sovereignty and has increased the prosperity of our Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u46	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the talk that I thought of a lot of good and perfunctory things. But I don't know what. A senator is exaggerating to us independents in connection with that matter and in a hurry. A senator to speak clearly in this regard is not exemplary. I don't know what it is. A senator is referring to Iceland's defense interest in possible free trade agreements with the United States. No free business negotiations with the United States are open, and we know exactly how we deal with Iceland and the United States. We have a two-sided defense agreement, we're in NATO together. I got it. I got it. A senator to speak clearly about what he is referring to. I don't know what it is. A senator is leaving, she often speaks this way without understanding it. Me and the Icelanders, however, have used it here a long time ago, and I don't know if it's true. A senator has disagreed with this. We know this in the territory dispute - I wasn't here and I wasn't. A senator thinks - that when we were fighting in the cod wars with the British in our day, people cruelly used it. Maybe what. A senator feels that those who were then members of the government and council, I believe it was a good thing for them at a council to do so, have gone too far. But there's no such thing on the tables now, and I'm telling you what to do. A member of the council either to stop these coverts or to speak frankly about what it is to point out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u47	Mr. President. Now I know a little bit better at the highest. Secretary of State, but I'd also like to thank him for my kind words regarding the EEA negotiation. It's clear to me that the highest. Secretary of State has spoken of the Iceland's economic and business alliances with the Americans at the same time as the Secretary of State and the U.S. Vice President of the United States comes here for an obvious reason. I can't believe the Minister of Foreign Affairs didn't realize that Pence was coming to a meeting to discuss protection while Iceland was trying to discuss something completely different. There would have been something else to discuss, as well. It's a more targeted climate. What I'm saying, including. In view of knowledge of the history of the rate at the highest. The secretary is in, but the defences have not been mixed with commercial interests. Men have tried to draw a line in the sand. Why are people today drawing this out? We were talking about NATO yesterday and the NATO meeting which was now. There's a warning about all this, e.g. with the Chinese. The Chinese and the Americans are in an all - out race to take control of many countries, including the United States. in the north, and then we must simply have done our homework, determine what it is that we are going to put forth in the force of our defenses, and then we can talk about economic and business agreements independent. They're not innuendos, they simply have to be afraid to face the reality they are. We need to be careful that our northern security concerns are closely linked with climate change. They are closely linked to other things, including them. The way we want to see the northern organization. Therefore, I consider it much better for us Icelanders to be part of the European nations that highlight the climate conditions on the grounds that we Icelanders can accept, not on the grounds of the President of the United States, who is still in the blues of denial of today's climate change.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u48	A respectable president. This did not lead to an explanation. Hv. A senator referred to the visit of vice president Mikes Pence. We took a special discussion in Capes with commercial leaders, both from the United States and in Iceland, about economic schemes. As always, when we meet with a U.S. representative, and there's no news, I think it's always happened, we discussed the nature of the case under security and protection. Unless what? What was the main topic of conversation between the northern countries, at a meeting of foreign ministers in Citynes? It was security and defense. What is it? A senator leaving? I just don't get it. Hv. A senator does nothing to explain his appearances. We've been driving on the road to increasing our Icelandic vacation shop, we've been doing pretty well with the Chinese deal during this term, as well as economic agreements have begun for Japan and for the United States. Increased power has since been moved into EFTA, and we see here both a free trade contract with Indonesia and Mercury to name something. But I have to pray. A senator explaining what's going on here, she certainly hasn't. I wholeheartedly agree with her that the EEA must not be undermined, but those who have undermined it until now are EU-slash, including with claims that we take 90% of all types from the European Union up to the EEA Convention, which is clearly false, as stated in the report, along with various other statements. I'm asking why. A senator's most kindly whether we can trust that the EU-Wests will try to find other reasons for their case than to undermine the EEA Convention. If so, it would be a change of course that I would rejoice greatly. A senator and other EU fans for wherever I could.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u49	Mr. President. This is Iceland's foreign minister speaking to people who meet at a meeting, another minister, who puts out certain things. I really don't know what's reality at the highest level. Ministerial is when he speaks of EU lovers digging under the EEA Convention. It's different for me before. What kind of outcasts are these? What kind of Morfis speech is this? What's going on? It's amazing. There's a lot of news, and we even showed it. in the energy package speech, that if the government had not been present, restoration, Group and Piratar, the government would have been having a problem with the energy package case, nonsenseing problems. It was also interesting to be at a meeting of a foreign - language committee, where one of the authors warned against this, including the U.S. By the word of the Chairman, to speak down the EEA contract, that the EEA deal should not be minimized, say it was so complex, so difficult, and we weren't allowed to make the deal this way and the arrangement that it would complicate the administration. It knows everyone who's watching an Icelandic political bitch that it's been a problem and it's been difficult inside the Independence Party. There's nothing wrong with acknowledging that. I have praised the highest. Minister for being on the right track. And speaking of messages from foreign minister meetings with other advisers or leaders of other nations, they were just not very clear when Pence was here. What was discussed? There was talk about Belti and a runway, then there were some adjustments later. If there's someone who needs to speak more clearly, it's the Minister himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u50	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the talk that was fine in many ways, and we share the view that the EEA has done well with us Icelanders and has strengthened us in international cooperation, and our business interests directly require that we remain in the EEA. But I cut it down in my speech. A senator mentioned that in the debate over the energy package, there were members who took the liberty of digging under the EEA Convention. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's words meant what they meant and the consequences of their actions. A senator believes that this has not only in this house but also in Iceland in an international context.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u51	Mr. President. Thank you for the questions. What I tried to draw was that the energy package discussion is a discussion that I plan we will experience over and over again. Another matter will be taken up, and it must be taken into account so that all the facts will be turned upside down, the facts will be tried to dissuade, and there will be other realities that will exist. What I experienced in the energy pack talk was that instead of listening to the answers, I was involved in some quite another psalm. What are we going to do about it? That's when we're gonna undermine the EEA deal. We Icelanders need -- so I didn't come first in my speech - to trust the administrative foundation of the EEA Convention. It does not necessarily have to be done through expansion, as the news editors suggest, but also by strengthening the administrative principle around the EEA Convention by supporting it better. There are two ways to go. That's what I'm talking about, that the deal was undermined. I hope that the energy package speech will be a lesson for us. And I understand why. A senator so she's the sincere supporters of the EEA Convention, I'm glad to say that. Therefore, I believe this discussion has been a warning to all of us that Iceland will not be excluded from the developments we are experiencing in democratic states, including the U.S. Within the EU or the EU, and therefore we need to be on guard. I'm still that way -- I noticed that we celebrate freedom and market and all the good things the EEA deal is. I think, talking about agriculture, that it could be even stronger, even stronger in the EU if we went there because we still don't have an open market there. We are to resupply our system with the goal of strengthening farmers and increasing our freedom at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u52	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I don't have a fixed place here at the council, I'm a deputy, and I have to say, after observing the debate on the extra-town energy package, that the breath could not be understood in the discussion any other than that here were members of the Central Party talking against Iceland's involvement in the EEA Convention, all the way this city's experience that part and found it boring to see it. But only one note is in the discussion here on account of what has now been spoken by the Central Party, and that is, as it were, fine. But I have to say first. A senator goes into the agriculture business only that we do not share the opinion that it is good for Icelandic agriculture that Iceland becomes a member of the EU. I don't think so. But we can strengthen the local agriculture. It is possible to do so, and we can choose to do so. I believe that this is exactly what the government now stands for. The government currently seated is even. Working on food policy for Iceland, which will be an enormously important guide for all of us as to where we are going to go. However, agrienvironmental discussions are a source of special discussions. A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u53	President. Only about agriculture, we need to increase freedom primarily in agriculture. I've come back once and for a while, we're not talking about my support for farmers. We are simply talking about taking this direct and indirect support, a total of 35 billion, and setting it straight into the agricultural system against the conditions that people think even more of the land, strengthening what they can do in the country rather than going directly to their modern manufacturing potential. I think it would be a very lucky move for Icelandic farmers, at least thinking it. We may not need to be members of the EU to do so, but it has been shown that just in the agricultural field, we do not have a new opportunity to be completely independent of all others and to take the new step fully and to have greater freedom in agriculture. Much rather, we have developed rules, a system that matches the intermediate bodies rather than farmers and consumers, etc. I just want to see how it works. I'm glad to see you. A senator watches the energy package discussion the way I saw it, as I understood it. I feared that because they were talking to and calling the members of the council, including the U.S. from the group no to the EU, who are also speaking against the EEA Convention, they were contacting Icelandic senators about it and warning about this step - I think it's a very serious matter. This emphasizes that a lot more hung on the wood than just the energy issues, since we've already made sure that all the decisions related to energy efficiency are ours, not others. Thus, in my opinion, we have done well our homework, on the contrary, and thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u54	Mr. President. Like other speakers here today, I want to thank you for the reports presented here. On the one hand, there is a report on the implementation of the EEA contract, which will be an annual report and will be helpful in getting it in here; before, it has been part of a report of the secretary of state on the international issues that are normally discussed in spring but that are, I think, very much good to have a particular discussion of the important aspect of our activities which will contribute to the EEA's cooperation and why we take it for the first time. Then I'd also like to thank you for a report made by the Secretary of State, including... On the basis of a request made during the council, a publication was directed by Björn Bjarnason, Kristrún Heimisdóttir, and Bergljót Halldórsdóttir's daughter. That report is of great benefit to us in many ways. It clearly highlights the content and nature of the EEA Convention and how it has been conducted and is therefore an important basis for discussing these issues in the future. Of course, such a report will never answer all the questions, but it is a summary of information and facts that we can apply to the future discussion on a reasonably wise basis. I'm not going to review a few aspects of the subject, except in a few points I would like to mention afterwards, but before we go any further, I'd like to agree with what's been presented in every speaker's speeches today, the EEA Convention has been very favorable to us. This report emphasizes this, and I think that any other research and reports, whether it has been through public members or members of society in recent years, have revealed that the EEA Convention has been very effective for us, has given us the opportunity to have, in principle, a new one. Although the EEA Convention is not entirely above criticism, as is other human activity, I think it is clear that the benefits of our membership in the EEA are far greater than those of the animals. It would be a mistake to risk this contract in any way, for there are no convincing options. Neither the EU Member State nor the resignation of the EEA Convention carry out better benefits for us Icelanders than the EEA Convention has established. That's what I'd like to say at the start, but where the dog. Senators have made nearly one word of praise about the EEA Convention in this discussion. It's worth remembering that the deal has not come to us in some supernatural way as a divine commandment. He is man's work, and as with other human works, there is reason to discuss both the pros and the flaws as well as the challenges we may face in dealing with this arrangement. Such challenges are certainly present when the EEA contract arrives. I don't think it's any way to undermine the EEA treaties, although these factors are discussed, especially if they're done on the basis of argument and facts, but not on the basis of some ghost tales or trying to paint up some scary movie like a microchip when we went through the spring third energy pack. The compromise of the energy package was marked by something that I could not help but refer to as ghost stories and terrors that had no support in the conferences that were under discussion. As we look at the report and perhaps especially the suggestions published by the press on changing government practices, I think we should listen. It is clear to us, and for many years it has been clear that we could do better with our arrival, both the council and the government, to prepare matters at the EEA scene. That discussion is not new. It is unlikely to remember that there have been some steps in recent years. Following a report provided by Bjarnason, 2007, specific suggestions were made and some adjustments were made in the terms of the European Parliament's treatment, followed by increasing the arrival of the council at earlier levels. In fact, the same thing happened in 2012, 2013 after a council hearing made by Einar K. Guðfinnsson of God, who was well supported by groups, on the contrary, by improved projects that also led to improved response to the coming of the Council to EEA. More recently this year, the Foreign Affairs Committee has still discussed changes to ensure that the Council's new arrival is improved. So much has now been done in this regard. But I agree with the reports that it is possible to do better and more than one thing for both the council and the government to put the strength into the work in this area that is needed to protect Icelandic interests and to be able to influence earlier points when there is a greater possibility of controlling legalization or preparation, a new opportunity than it has been. You can ask yourself, " Is this going to happen by setting up some formal European Commission or if it can be accessed in some other way? ' I am aware that there is a need to improve coordination and project management in this regard but whether we are talking about a management station, as the news editors say, with special staff and such things - I have at least not yet the conviction that this is the right way. I may come up with that conviction later. However, I agree with my objective, and I do not doubt that it is important that the harmony in this way needs to improve and improve. The same can be said of the proposal mentioned in this context, that the coming of the Council will be strengthened by establishing a special associate with the European Parliament. I don't know if such a procedure is the solution, if you have a single agent who's supposed to be monitoring everything in the European Parliament and presenting it to the General Assembly of Iceland. Maybe there's nothing wrong with going that way, but I don't have the conviction that this will necessarily change the way or improve the flow of information. Let's just talk about it and go over it. On the other hand, I think it may be important that members of the general body of Congress, whether through some committees or with members of the Parliament or with groups at the European Parliament, be more aware of what is happening, and that there is reason to draw closer to the point where men even have a chance to promote some viewpoints there, if a subject is the nature of their interest in Iceland. I believe, however, that humans should avoid taking any simple, visible procedure, such as snapping a finger and hiring a employee who has settled in Brussels and thinking that the case is solved that way. I think there's a lot more to be here to make a real impression where it matters. That's what I'd like to say about the report. Before I fully understand it in this discussion, I wanted to mention that the report sheds a clear light on two factors, we can say, which have sometimes been involved in a general European discussion here. On the one hand, it illustrates the difference between the EEA and the EU. In public discussion, this may at times be a bit vague in many people's minds, and I want to mention statements that have been made about the magnitude of the ratio, e.g. Icelandic legislators are rooted in European legislation. This rate is considerably lower than in public debates. It is also important that large amounts of EU regulations do not enter the EU community. At least there is a basis for it when they claim that we are now really involved in the EU because we adopt so much of the rules from there and that there is no such difference between us and the EU when it comes to what area of fall outside the EEA Convention. The report also shows that there is a considerable difference between the establishment of legislation and the implementation of legislation which, anyway, for my part makes it possible for me to support the EEA contract but would not be able to support the EU society. I think from the national sovereigns and our potential for making decisions on our own, our interests are far better cared for by the EEA Convention than by the EU Member States. If you read the report, they'll see that there's a big difference. Of course, this is not to be a new information, but it is always beneficial when such information is presented clearly and clearly, as we can see from this report. The report of such events is important. Of course, we need to continue the discussions about our approach to the EEA agreement. We can improve in how we work within the EEA framework. We need to be careful to view such matters as nothing at all and to answer all questions ahead of time. We must approach matters when we receive them here with a critical attitude, but the EEA Treaty is still a reasonable and good foundation for our cooperation with European nations and while there are no options that make sense on this level, I think we should work on that basis and try to improve our position on the basis of the EEA agreement rather than compromise it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u55	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir A year's Ármannsson supply for a fine and balanced review. I completely share his vision that the EEA is important and that we should apply the advice we have, e.g. as members of the international body, to remind our partners that we are in the EEA business and that's an important deal. I also agree that the EEA deal does not come from gods, as I think it would be. A senator talked about it. Of course, material matters should be discussed, depending on the pros and cons. We're gonna go for a second. A senator agrees. I think it's clear, I believe, both in the report of the Secretary of State and the EEA Cooperation report here on the beautiful side that the EEA Convention has had a tremendous impact on Icelandic society and Icelandic society. I don't think the impact will be measured by the number of rules we've taken through the EEA Convention rather than by the fact that potential involvement in the European Union will be weighed and determined by the percentage of rules taken up, but we have to look at the material content and impact of the rules and cooperation we have in Icelandic society. [[The president calls.]] It's not what. A senator agreed that it is futile to be talking about the proportions and the number of rules in this context?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u56	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for giving me an opportunity to discuss this matter. I agree that counting the rules or proportions in this relationship is a very imperfect standard. Of course, it does give a very limited image, but I think it serves primarily to draw out information of this kind to realize that the claims that we are 85% in the European Union or 75% - depending on what the interviewer is saying every time in that relationship - are a little far from real when you look at these standards. Of course, this varies according to the trade and trade area and related areas, there are very consistent rules, which is the basis for the EEA community. The game was designed to conform to rules in that area, so the effect is very strong in certain areas, but much less in other areas. We're gonna go for a second. A senator can agree that speaking of this kind, whether it is counting the number of regulations we have entered in accordance with the regulations set forth in the European Union or seeing other types, or how much new laws in Iceland on the direct basis of EU rules, are an imperfect standard. But that is a measure. I think we're gonna do what. A senator can agree that the results, however we look at this, are that in certain areas the EEA Treaty involves a much harmonization than in other areas. While we disagree on participation in the European Union, we are expected to agree that there is a significant difference between the EEA work programme and the EU community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u57	Thank you. There is a big difference between being a member of the European Union and a member of the EEA Convention. It's possible to hold a long matter that I'm not going to do here in itself. What I'd like to do primarily with my answers is that we've been standing in a pit, at least All of us so far, describing how greatly the EEA deal had affected Iceland and most of the things that are going to improve, though some do not completely agree on it. But if I recall correctly, I think it was in the Foreign Minister's report that it was about 13% of Icelandic legislation directly toward the EEA Convention. If we were to look at these standards, someone would like to say: Being in the EEA has very little effect on Iceland because it affects only 13% of the law that the Council puts in such a way that it makes absolutely no difference. But the fact is, and we all talk about it that this is extremely important and I think it's more than 13%. That's what I'm talking about. A senator would agree with me on that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u58	Mr. President. It may be that we are scurrying. A senator can make us such a conflicting subject in some way. We approach things from different viewpoints in this regard. I just repeat what I said, in certain areas, the impact of the EEA Convention is enormously important. I think we're gonna do what. A senator will also agree that it has a more extensive impact in the economic and economic settings. It has an influence over the whole society, perhaps higher than it can be measured based on the introduction or the like, and so on. Absolutely. However, I think this may show us that in the same way as it may be an incomplete reference to count the number of regulations or regulations rooted in the EEA community or to measure much of the Icelandic rules that have background in the EEA rules, it is also a reminder that it is dangerous to make statements such as sometimes stated, especially in earlier years - I think it may have less premise that the subsequent years - that the step from EEA to the EU society would be so short because of having more and less traditions in the EU contract. I think it should be those who want to get us into the EU a certain point of thought but perhaps even those who want us to leave the EEA contract on the grounds that they are basically full EU Member States. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u59	Mr. President. We'll discuss a report with you at the highest level. The Minister of Foreign Affairs for the EEA Organization decided last year to be discussed regularly in the Senate Hall once a year. It should be noted, therefore, that we have finally arrived at that site at 25 years since the EEA contract took place that the cooperation and agreement are discussed here on a regular basis. Will this no doubt make the agreement, the EEA and the Icelandic legislation based on a higher contract and further explain which part of the Icelandic legislation you can directly trace to and how it affects Icelandic society. I'd like to commend the highest. Foreign Minister for the summary and report of the implementation of the EEA Convention, which is in fact a summary of the detailed staff report as highest level. The Minister set up for the EEA community service. This regular report to the Council is the result of a last year's review of the General Regulation on the Constitutional Treatment of the EEA, and in Article 9. That's exactly what they require for a regular report to the council. We need to have a regular discussion about the EEA agreement, its benefits and weaknesses, and particularly the focus of each government on the EEA community. However, discussions in the Assembly Hall are not enough. The conference with the Council must be regular. This has certainly increased substantially over the past few years, as well as in information, as it was a matter of convened discussions with a review of the Conventional Treatments of the EEA in 2010. At that review, the General Department of Foreign Affairs will send all types that are scheduled to record the EEA Convention and call for a legal adjustment. Last year, a re-evaluation of the rules required that a minister should be less than six months old at a time when presenting to the State Affairs Committee the issues at the top of the EU cycle and relating to EEA partnerships. That's what you did. Secretary of state last year, but we're still waiting. The Foreign Affairs Committee after the presentation of the priorities of the EEA Convention of this Parliament and the highest bid. Minister to get the first thing to us in a hurry. The Foreign Affairs Committee with this presentation in particular. I do not doubt his good will to have this presentation with us on the committee. The European Parliament's revised guidelines for highlighting the active participation of the Council in the preparation and molding of EU types also require that efforts be made to ensure Iceland's interests as long as the European legislation is possible. This emphasis, as previously stated at the Congress Hall today, on Iceland's active interests as long as the EU legislation is possible, is by no means new. Ex-fiancé. Minister of State Ásgrímsson Ásgimsson, for example, placed emphasis on the effective interests of 1995 when he took over as foreign minister a year after completing the contract here. The senators have also put much emphasis on active interest in the council hall and in their Senate work, so I stress the importance of effective consultations at the highest level. Foreign Minister to the Foreign Affairs on the legal matter, as I previously said, which the government considers as top priority from Icelandic interests. I also encourage the Government Department to increase the number of its representatives in Brussels, where the declared objective of the government is to aim to increase the number of representatives hired to enable them to focus more on the analysis of the EU law process and thereby promote such analysis with the State Department and the Parliament. There, I strongly encourage the minister of the government to hold the stated objective of this. If it's serious to be careful that Iceland's interests simply the entire Ministry has to send its agents to Brussels and not only the Ministry but also the Icelandic job life needs to send a powerful agent. I'd like to consider the importance of the EEA contract, which is unambiguous. It is one of the most important international agreements in Iceland, which has made it possible for Icelanders to operate almost safely on 500 million internal markets of the contract. In particular, I would like to mention here and stress that, in the power of our Member States in this contract, there is a unique basis for cooperation with the European Union, not only in the business and financial sector, but also, in the years following the economic breakdown, especially in the field, in the field of research, education, consumer protection, and culture. Has the involvement in the contract contributed to an enormously important improvement in Icelandic legislation in these areas. Because of its involvement in the contract, Icelandic scholars and scientists are giving opportunities for extraordinary educational and scientific cooperation with members of the region where Iceland can afford to work and learn. This is clearly seen on page 22. Twenty-six for the Foreign Minister's report, which includes: that the Ministry of Education and Culture has had an assessment of Iceland's involvement in the sixth and seventh EU Cooperative Programme for research and development from 2003 to 2011. The results were that there were chapters of research and development in Iceland. It was a unanimous opinion of individuals within the university, the administrative and professional sectors that participation had led to large international cooperation in education, research and innovation, and opened up access to knowledge and facilities that were not available in this country and brought to increased quality of research, innovation in companies, and improved competitiveness. This is of little value to 340,000 people, and to future generations in this country, and especially in the days of increasing isolationism and a negative attitude toward global unity today. I'd like to take a look at the report of a EEA team that produced a good report made in one year. The report is a large overview and an excellent summary of the EEA Treaty, its historical development, its share of Iceland in the EEA Convention and the Obstacle, its expertise, its pros and cons. On page 18. 21 In the work group report, 15 so-called relief points are drawn, some of which are very effective in maintaining the EEA Convention's discussion as much as less effective. The main news of this report is the findings of the Constitution and the administrative value of the induction. It has entered the cut-off point of No. 2 which says that control measures will be terminated because of the EEA, either by acknowledging that it has won a administrative policy like other unregistered guidelines or by documenting regulations about its involvement in the Constitution. This is my prime report of the task force. It is the clear opinion of the chairman of the operating group that the registration of members of the constitution is not applicable. This he has expressed himself and is something that offers further discussions, both in the council and in other parts of the community, with 18 official legal opinions on this subject being done and published so that we have enough material to discuss it. I'd also like to go to some other relief points. In Point No. According to 9 reports by Generals and governments, there are often plots on how to achieve the best work of the EEA and to take a stand for responsibility for EEA affairs in the administration system by the Presidential decision to switch jobs between ministers. I think this is a good suggestion that will explain and enhance the responsibility of the aspects of the EEA Convention we are implementing in our legislation. At point 10, it is discussed that there should be a firming ground for the overall management and treatment of the EEA at home and that there will be an established EEA administrative center with a fixed staff who will remain on top of the case party at the formative level. A couple of them have a sledgehammer. The members of Parliament discussed in the discussion today. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir asked the highest question. Secretary of state on this point. V.E.G. A minister took to heart the idea presented in an improvement point of No. 10 They were positive about setting up a so - called administrative agency. In my knowledge, this is a good idea and will make us more determined on the EEA Convention. Then it's the recovery point of No. 11 which is referred to as the management list of key EEA issues to be followed in a specific way, experience shows that the EEA/EFTA countries will have significant results in the interests of their interests. This is also the red thread that has appeared in the debates today about our active interest guard, about sharpening our priority list, and is actually about us being active members of the EEA Convention rather than people. Then it's the recovery point of No. 12 dealing with the need for a man-made policy aimed at the public participation in the EEA partnership and to give those who are thereby able to gain special knowledge by permission for research at foreign universities and educational or research institutions. I think this is an enormously important point that fosters knowledge sharing, teaching, and research across borders that are always good. A cut is the same as the cutting point of recovery No. 13 which are referred to as promoting more research in the EEA and beyond law. I think this is also a very good suggestion how we can increase the value of the contract in Icelandic society so that we can get a better picture of exactly what the deal is like. Finally, I'd like to include in my speech the environment that comes vertically into our legislation through our involvement in the EEA Treaty. There are plenty of improvements in the field that have infiltrated Icelandic legislation since Iceland became a member of the EEA Convention. As shown on page 19. 160 of the work group's report puts climate issues at an increasing rate on the EEA integration along with environmental considerations. In recent years the EEA's environmental cooperation has increased dramatically, particularly in climate. An example of this is shown only at the U.S. Constitution. The Environment Minister for this Council, but five matters of Environment and Climate, which will enter the Parliament during the winter, are either the implementation or directives through the EEA Convention. A total of 658 environmental types have been adopted in Icelandic legislation through the EEA Convention which shows its importance to us in this category. In recent years, the cooperation between the EEA and particularly climate-related countries has increased, and the government in Iceland and Norway is achieving a common objective with the EU countries on the Paris Convention. It will now be discussed how to introduce the common objective of the EEA Convention and these talks will hopefully be concluded at the end of 2019. I believe, Mr. President, that environmental and climate issues must be more and more comprehensive in relation to the EEA agreement. Such matters will and will increase rapidly in the immediate future. Hopefully there will be a large increase, and hopefully the EEA contract will continue to enable us Icelanders to join the EU environmental policy. The EU's policy on the environment is largely internalized in this country. Iceland's Member States to the EEA Convention has contributed to the environmental protection of the country, as the work group report. As an example, it is confirmed that specific measures on pollution control, waste management and environmental impacts have been put into place, and information to the public on the environment and the monitoring of many environmental factors have been improved. Other examples of this are that the EEA rules out the duties of rural society in the environment. The European Environment Agency is involved in the work of the European Environment Agency, and this is how the positive aspects and consequences of the EEA Convention can be considered for climate and environment. This is, together with the emphasis on the progress the Icelandic community has made in education, culture, research, and science, that my intelligence of the highest and best indicators on whether the EEA deal has had a good effect on Icelandic society or not. It is hoped that this will continue, and that is where Iceland's main concern is to get special access or appeals that we've been taking up too often and highlight in the introductions of environmental and climate products. That's why, Mr. President, I think we need to take advantage of this great opportunity involved in the EEA deal is for an Icelandic community, that we are active members, not participants. The government is to be active, and we are to focus on this enormously important cooperation, which has made it clear that there is a great benefit to Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u60	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech that was fine. I'd like to ask you what. The senator's attention was only two points. In my first answer, I'm going to ask about the constitution. Hv. A senator said that in one of the proposals for the Constitution, it is necessary to end the administrative steps due to the EEA and either have to be done by acknowledging that it has won a administrative policy like other unscheduled guidelines or by installing regulations into a constitution. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would have thought, " Is it better? Is it better? Is it any way out? Is it better? Is it even better?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u61	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the answer and for stressing this. I was not afraid to claim that this was the main news in the EEA contract report, but I have to admit that I have not personally decided which way to go. However, I still think that this 18 official legal opinion that I referred to has, in fact, submerged that these factors can be the basis for this discussion and the work on the constitution that is going on. I think it's important, though, that we need to have a conversation that works. It will be curious to see the rest, and whether or not this improvement point will find work on changing the current constitution. I think that might be the best thing to do in that job.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u62	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator mentioned the environmental issues and their connection to the EEA rights. We know that much of the EU's regulations taken up in the EEA deal are established by national environmental legislation. We have environmental assessment, waste of waste, water protection, pollution control, etc., and then climate control. Of course, we are not members of the EU, but we choose with respect to the Paris Convention to be in a jointly integrated with Norway and the EU on the European Paris Convention in climate change until 2030. This means that Iceland is supposed to have reached a 29% reduction in emissions outside of ETS by 2030. I'd like to ask you what. A senator is willing to accept this decision, whether it is acceptable to choose this route because it was not necessarily carried out. I miss a bit that there's been a very little discussion about this. But where it is. The candidate discussed the environmental issues in the discussion. A senator is happy and is really satisfied with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u63	Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. She has come to realize that I am not always completely happy when it comes to climate, has been critical of what we have been doing, and has exactly demanded that we walk faster in them. I agree with what was presented. The senator said it was good that we decided this way, that we would stick to the EU target. As I mentioned in my speech, we will hopefully finish the negotiations as soon as possible so that they will not be further dragged, and we will see their results by the end of 2019. As I also mentioned in my speech, we've tried so hard to get an exception from certain factors when it comes to environmental and climate issues. I think we're going to stop it and cut it down and take part in it with all our heart. Although some things may not be relevant in Iceland, we are not supposed to have this basic foreign policy for decades, always have a special solution or a special foreign release. Climate crisis has become a major foreign issue that we need to keep up with the countries that are at the top of the climate and environment. There I think it's a good idea that we're even more involved in the production of the EEA and that we're never the EU submers on climate change.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u64	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a special report of the implementation of the EEA contract for the first time at the General Assembly under the new procedure. In addition, we will discuss the report of the EEA work group since September 2019. I'd like to thank you for these reports, as more people have done, and consider them a very important basis for an informed discussion about the implementation and translation of the contract for Iceland. In addition, it is important to remember earlier reports on the contract and the information agency that was opened in March. It is appropriate that this discussion be conducted for the first time in this way after a quarter of the work experience. The benefits of Iceland's cooperation and the EEA Treaty are clearly drawn up in the reports supporting this discussion. The contract is certainly the most important business agreement we have in Iceland. It is also a legal agreement on individual and corporate rights as well as the contract into a wide variety of cooperations in culture, education, and science. As various members of the Parliament have been included in the discussion, these frames have provided us with access to opportunities for innovation and marketing and a much more diverse education opportunities than they would otherwise make. The present is a representative of the party, the forward party, which considers the best interests of Iceland's best city outside the European Union, which highlights good cooperation with the European Union on the basis of the EEA Convention. The EEA cooperation and the four freedoms it brings play a major role in the prosperity we enjoy in Iceland today. The economy is largely based on our having access to Europe's inner market on equal terms. The treaty has also brought important improvements to the legal environment and to the competitive environment, which are relevant to industry and consumers. Today, we take many things for granted that were not for 25 years. These are some of the advantages of the cooperation and the contract have brought us, such as the European Medical Card, Erasmus integration that affects ever more and more students and employees in the Icelandic educational system, Horizon 2020 partnerships, and other activities. I think it would be foolish to throw this benefit to quietness. We thrive at a foreign trade, and we need to have access to foreign markets as well as to active cooperation and cooperation in culture, education, and science play an ongoing role in innovation and increasing social value. I believe, however, that there is good reason to examine how we approach the partnership and that it has actually been, and to continue to become a permanent work of Icelandic politics. There are, of course, challenges to working together, such as this one. One, of course, is that in such vast cooperation, there is not always a transparency in the way the final result is made. It is a ongoing task to observe challenges and discern what really matters. The key point is that in this cooperation as well as the rest of us, our Icelanders are the luck of their own makers. Although the benefits of the past 25 years are high and unambiguous, experience has taught us that we can improve our work, and we have recently taken important steps in this regard, as we have seen in this discussion. We need to be careful in due time to apply such requirements and adapt to the requirements that we feel are not for our benefit. We have an obligation to care fully for our interests. Let's look ahead. We need to use our energy to sharpen our interests and identify EU types at the formative level with regard to our interests. In that way, we will remain our luck makers. In the same way, we already need the introduction and recording of EU types to provide better analyses of their impact and community development in Iceland, and we're taking advantage of all opportunities to meet a wide range of interests in the induction process. In this way, we will ensure continued development of Icelandic society for increased self-sustaining and valuables. The success of the General Assembly in these topics is important, therefore I rejoice in its recent support, with the emphasis being made on active participation in the preparation and development of the EEA types and that efforts should be made to ensure Iceland's interests as long as possible in EU legislation. Increase foreign secretary's consultation with the council, improve the protection of Brussels and better analysis of EEA types, including In Brussels, with the increase in the number of representatives of the medical strategy, all very important steps. The EEA is important. We are to take advantage of all the opportunities involved, identify positions, opportunities and challenges, and never use the contract as an excuse for errors in the Commission or in the legal procedures of this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u65	A respectable president. This has taken place a fine discussion of these reports, which I thank you for. I appreciate your reports, and thank you for your discussion. I'm not going to say in my short language what's been said, but I'd like to, sir, a respectable president, to begin my case by saying a few things out of a well-known psalm. Imagine no kingdom of heaven. which is easy if you try, And upon us only heaven, No hell under us. Imagine All the People to satisfy every day's suffering. Imagine no lands. which is not difficult, nothing to kill and die for nor any religion. Imagine All the People Live together in peace. A respectable president. Thus, very quickly, the first lines of John Lennon, Imagine, in which the poets try to bring skeptics and non - Jews to the realization that the ideals for peace and love and society are not necessarily more unrealistic than warmongering and hatred, and he asks those who have become cynical and negative just trying to imagine it all together. That's how the Beatles sound. True, it is a search for as unforcivilable as it can be for the European Union with all its petty regulations and regulations and regulations and conscientious and unscrupulous lyrics that are trying to make as little ambiguous or complicated as possible, with all their systems of carnivorous production and all their standards and skills and knowledge and agreements and agreements and economics and cooperation plans. Yet, in spite of that, the European Union is exactly the peace effort of the generation that was impressed by the Bitem and their message of love, and it remembered the last major war in Europe between 1914◯1918 and 1939-1945, the Cold War and the nuclear threat would be remembered. The European Union is the contribution of that generation to test the ideals that John Lennon made immortal in his song Imagine. The European Union is Imagine. It's not about cultivating conflict. It's about finding peace in each matter, looking for conclusions that everyone can enjoy. It is not about protecting the right of the strong to oppress the weak but, rather, the making of rules that everyone must submit to, even the old colony, to create an environment in which everyone has the equal capacity to live and work in harmony with his abilities. If so, the European Union will be happy! Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, ? Is this heaven on earth? Far from it, of course. Such places exist only in our minds and in our religions. In the European Union, countless things have gone wrong. There are injustice, injustice, unemployment, and misjudgment, and many kinds of woes and difficulties. However, this relationship is the effort of nations to come together and work together on the common solutions that are faced in an online world that has to deal with natural disasters and challenges to new technologies in the workplace, to deal with the overgrowth of corporations, to major corporations that feel that they are superior to the nationalities, monomechanism, overproduction, plundering, rights of working people and consumers, and countless other matters that will not be solved by the strong sitting over the weak. But like another poet, Megas, it was spoken in another song: 'Of a dog's pot, we have the best touch. We are often more receptive to the grueling, even up - to - date news of the arched banana decrees than to hear that consumers and producers sit at the same level across the border. It is easier to create fear and fear in the minds of many than to be long - suffering and socializing toward other people. A respectable president. Thank you for your report. Secretary of State and this is a late report by a staff group on the EEA team that Björn Bjarnason, former minister, has led, and this is Kristrún Heimisdóttir and Bergþóra's daughter, Halldórsdóttir, wrote along with him, and Pétur Gunnarsson, too. It really doesn't have to exaggerate many words about how important this cooperation is to Iceland and how important it is to connect with the European Union, although only because the EEA Convention opens up to us 500 million people markets up to 80% of our exports. The Icelandic company thus operates in a multimillion market rather than in the previous micromarket, which changes everything. This contract has changed our community into countless areas. He has given many rights to employees and consumers, to the public. He has made it possible for young people to go to Europe to study and work and return to their experience with greater wealth. He has made it possible for young people from around Europe to come to Iceland to study and work, thus enriching our international community. He's actually introduced consumer protection here in Iceland, but before this contract, there was no particular law on consumer protection. The Convention has made a big difference in how environmental legislation is being conducted here: environmental assessment, waste disposal, water protection, pollution control, climate, yes, and energy use measures where the European Union has been in the lead of nations. We're a European nation. We have a cultural and imaginative and historical partnership with other European countries, which most of us have chosen to connect with this alliance in one way or another. There are the nations next to us. I'm just namein' the northern countries and the Irish. These nations are happy there, and they have prospered to activate the forces in these communities and can be mentioned especially by the Irish in this relationship that were for so long under the iron head of the English with the help of oppression and misery and now flourishing in the European Union society. We can also name Finns, who obtained their sovereignty in the same year as Icelanders, 1918, but who lived for decades in the shadow of the gray terror of which the Soviet Union was but had flourished in the latter years, among the peers in the European Union. We are to look at these nations, which have a similar history as we do about foreign power, with relative oppression and delinquency, but have succeeded in flourishing among the equals in the European Union, and they have achieved an immense impact oversized value on values and ideals that are fundamentally organized. The European Union is complex and needs to take into account many views, not the Kingdom of heaven on earth, but only in folklore and fairy tales. It is not also the empire of evil, nor is it a foreign empire that is greedy for our resources. The European Union is the European Union, the European Union of sovereign nations that talk, negotiate, and find ways to live together peacefully, not warring. You can call me a dreamer, but I'm not the only one. I hope you'll join us one day. Then the world will be as one.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u66	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the talk, who opens up the discussion on a fun plan, as is often the case. Senator. I liked his approach and agree with him that it doesn't matter if it's the European Union or anything else, that it should be true and accurate. You're right next door. A member of the Council of banana regulations is false. This was august regulations. Why did someone think of creating aaggressor regulations, how they were shaped, etc., is a mystery to me, but it does introduce the criticism that the European Union is about, that there must be rules about anything that doesn't have to do about. True, I'm not entirely sure that the story's explanation of why. A senator stands in every respect. I think she was a little embezzled, but I like it at a good time. A senator says he's getting close to this ideological thing, as I understand why. A senator, and he believes that this is the way. On the other hand, I have very serious doubts about that. I don't think there's anything over the criticism of the ocean, and it's very dangerous when people put up with criticism. I'm not talking about what. Senator, who is the head of the European Union, is very sensitive to criticism that I believe is among the problems of the relationship. It is clear what those who continue to drive the European Union want, they want the European Union. It is quite clear, and this firm course is naturally one of the reasons why the problem exists, but how is it? A senator? Wants to play. A senator that Iceland is a part of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u67	A respectable president. I want to start with the bananas and the aguars. I hope to the highest. The president begs me to bear a man who is absent because I have a truth that the journalist who made these troll stories from Brussels was none other than the highest. Prime Minister of Britain at this time, Boris Johnson. He picked up just the way he sowed. V.E.G. Minister asks how I provide for the European Union and the involvement of the Icelanders in it. I tried to explain this in the section of my speech that I had to skate because of lack of time. I see the European Union as a network. It is the network of sovereign nations, each passing over a part of its power to a common government and a joint assembly chosen by the national groups. Then this network will work out a number of issues. A relationship is a word that I wouldn't use in this relationship, and I think that is now some kind of water flowed to the sea since those ideas were most prominent among the European Union's leaders to make a kind of state of it, like the United States of America are, and I think that policy has moved somewhat further and that most people are about to believe that it is a loose alliance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u68	A respectable president. We're going back to the agurian order. It was real, it's in the middle of nowhere. There is also the possibility that Boris Johnson was once a journalist in Brussels. I don't know if he can claim to be aware of this, I don't know, but there's august order that they can't reach the aguar definition unless they were properly shaped, etc. KTorrent was available. It's not the only strange Regulation that's come from the European Union. The reason I keep asking is because it's no secret, e.g. both the pack group of Sisield ecoons and the EPP, which are the most extensive categories on the right side of the center, and truly the members of the Commission, that I do not talk about government - I have never met a government official from the European Union that is different and yet have met several boards of the past decade and that is not changed - wanted to have a relationship with Europe. It's perfectly clear, there's no way that that's the goal. The reason is that there must be a objection to other superpowers and other factors. I think you're absolutely right. Senator that it has not been very successful to get there, at least Not in public, but not in public. it is suspicious because, no matter what happens, humans feel that those who control and do not control the public will go their own way and try to get on with it. We can do so, as when men tried to pass the constitution and it was canceled, and it was criticized that people had gone to the same extent rather than listened to the people of that nation. If they make a covenant, they are tried to get them in some other way. But it's perfectly clear. Watch your step. A senator been a little clearer? Does he support it, want a European Union like Europe's leaders, and the largest groups of people, including the Soiald Ecokraa, are fighting for? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u69	A respectable president. I think we always have to start this exchange by discussing bananas and aguar. I'm actually saying Boris Johnson made up stories about bananas and actually invented more stories about ridiculous regulations and EU law. But that's enough. Of course, the European Union needs international strength. The countries that are members of the European Union need to feel that they are powered by this relationship, and that gives them power on a international level. The European Union needs to have a voice to the big powers, although only in climates where the European Union is considered to be a progressive and good policy. They need to be able to speak with a clear voice. I believe, however, that there should not be too much progress in making one state out of the European Union, and I'm not sure that this idea is necessarily a sound foundation outside the town of Brussels.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u70	A respectable president. I feel that I most need to find some fruit or vegetables for which there's a stupid regulation to participate in this fun discussion, but I'm going to start by thanking for the report. The work group report on the EEA community is extremely good and important in the discussion that needs to take place in Icelandic society and may have taken place a little earlier. I'm one of those who don't agree to Iceland's membership in the European Union, but I'm completely convinced that this deal is extremely important to us. In fact, I was a member of the report request initially, which was called after this report. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson was a 1st transporter. I did so on the basis of the fact that I thought it was important for us to have a report like this in the council and that we would discuss the pros and cons of the EEA Convention. In a statement made by the Foreign Minister on the work group report: ▪ The team believes that when it comes to the development of Icelandic society, it has changed, and it would now have called for a much greater estimate of the development of Icelandic society than would have been possible for the working group to do or at any given time. Then it is explained that all the interviewers, other than members of the United States, were free of land and no for EU in Norway, considered the EEA Convention to have a good life and benefit for those within its framework. I can very well understand the criticism I've heard of, that the report does not address the question of what would have happened if we hadn't participated in the EEA community. I'm saying it must be pretty hard. Since my entry into the council and in any relationship I've had, whether in business or in the educational community, with officials or politicians, I feel that I have been very much impressed with the importance of the contract and how much it's done to us. I hear people in the business world say they're not sure how they look at the EEA deal as a fixed lifeline. However, I still think there are a few things to be done better on the contract, as shown in the report. V.E.G. In fact, the minister of foreign affairs has repeatedly discussed this in their reports and languages, i.e. that we can and should improve our interests in Brussels. It has also often been said that it is not only a project that should further concern the interests of the environment but also that the council should do so, even the members of the Parliament's staff would need to do so in Brussels. I was a little worried about it when I first began to study the value of all these interests, and I find it very interesting to wonder in the context of whether there is any other possibility. You see, I don't think so. I was interested when I began to consider that it really doesn't matter whether you're party to the EU or, like us, a party to the EEA deal. Even if we weren't, I think we always needed to take care of our interests in Brussels. We can see that the EU itself has an enormous amount of presence and interest in Brussels, just to get to the first degree. I can say that there are often the most amazing things coming out of Brussels officials who I think are good and then it's good to know what all that work is open and clear. I had an opportunity at the beginning of the year to stay for almost two weeks in Brussels and Strasbourg and study the inside of the European Union. I met many officials and senators there and received further instruction on how all of this works. I also visited Burssel's Ministry and spoke with staff and representatives of different recruitments, and they worked exactly how easy it would be and no problem it would be if Iceland is interested, if Iceland has something to offer, if we have experts in each area, that they are participating in the work of expert groups, which is usually the first step to upcoming legislation. We should, of course, use it and have done so, but we need to set priorities and look at specific issues that we would like to focus on. It is important to remember, too, that although this is a huge vacation contract, it is much more than that, to form what we get out of research and science funds. It is both interesting and enjoyable to observe how well Icelandic people have been applying for it. For example, if we want to get into crescents and pennies, we can calculate this to be taken into account by Icelandic research institutions and university institutions. We've made extensive use of Erasmus, the medical card's been listed here, and there's more to be listed. Then I'm going to come into what I think is so important, i.e. that we have this report and that there is talk about the deal in the community. I agree with what some have. The senators said before me, we may have lost a bit of the ball in speaking about the value of the contract, so much is committed in the contracts that the community and Icelandic citizens take for granted, and they do not necessarily realize that they are rights and goods that come about because we have this contract. That's why I think it's important to keep it up. Recent discussions such as The energy package has given us an opportunity to discuss the benefits of the EEA Union and what Icelandic citizens get out of the EEA business every day. But there are not only advantages, there are also defects, and that discussion also needs to be discussed. I said, for example. In my conversations with Brussels, there were two things we would have to work especially with. On the one hand, the Icelandic government would have to do better with talking up, talking about its value, and what we get out of it, and on the other hand, we would have to demand the European Union to respect the agreement, respecting the two supporting solutions. It is unacceptable how long it has taken to find two supporting solutions for a new program of action that has been observed. I have to admit, too, that I was sometimes a little offended because they don't necessarily talk about the EEA deal like that. They speak of, with the permission of the President, the Norwegian route, the Norwegian way; they are not specifically referring to the Icelanders in those matters; they speak of the Norwegian way that, of course, hurt the Icelandic heart a little bit of independence. In the last minute, I'd like to step in on my responsibility. I think the deal paid a little bit for the fact that some Icelandic politicians have not been good enough to take responsibility for their jobs in recent years. The responsibility is too often thrown at the EEA Convention. This was illustrated when we had an enjoyable conversation during a conversation. The State Department, when the press came to us that members of the Parliament have been passing laws without being fully aware of what the European legislation required. Government officials have sometimes fallen into the trap of trying to introduce more into legislation, but they are clearly stated in the European Order. In the middle, we need to analyze very carefully. I think our most recent work ethic makes it possible that when we read articles, we should be clear and clear what the European Order asks of us, where we go, and how we make use of the sources involved. Then we need to sit in this room, we're on the button, and we'll vote to be responsible for our actions. I think that too often the responsibility has been thrown over a large plate in Brussels. I welcome the report. I think the reform points are good, and I know the Ministry has begun to look at them, and I also encourage the Ministry to cooperate with the Foreign Affairs Committee. The discussion here and the discussion within the committee should enable us to determine what is right for us and how we will work with the points of improvement here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u71	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Foreign Minister for a good report on the EEA Convention and review of the EEA Workgroup report. As the report shows, we may be taking the rights and benefits that the contract brings us for granted and may not realize that this will be related to this wonderful agreement. A better work ethic for consultation with the General Assembly is provided for improvement and the information given as Ministers of Foreign Affairs and Other Counsellers is intended to have to be taken up to the foreign committee on the sort of procedure planned for the contract. The recent discussions with the EEA Convention, and particularly with the third energy package, consisted largely in critical of Iceland's interest management, that it would not be good enough in the early stages of situations where the best opportunities would be to influence things. Part of the discussion was that we would accept anything that came from the European Union without criticism and would be too late to accept us to request permission or specific adjustments in Icelandic circumstances. Many members of the Parliament have established these factors in their talks here today. In this context, the report points out that in the General's revised rules, on the political treatment of the EEA, there is an emphasis on the active participation of the Council in the preparation and development of EU models and that efforts should be made to ensure Iceland's best interests as long as possible in EU legislation. It also speaks of increased consultations with the Foreign Affairs Committee on the issues that the government values as top priority from Icelandic interests. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir This aspect of his speech has been handled well by the Gamaldsdotttir of Haraldsdóttir. There have been ambitious efforts to investigate the implementation of the EEA Convention and suggestions on improving the implementation of the national contract. The secretary's report explains a number of proposals in the 2015 and 2017 reports and explains the implementation of the proposed proposals. Then there is the work group report on the EEA integration since September. ... thatwasoverhere. It makes much better, is presented clear and specific suggestions that are now being considered. I'd like to focus on the Icelandic rural society and the EEA deal. The Convention has a wide range of impact on the activities of Icelandic organisations and lays an EEA principle on the responsibilities of the Community in the environment due to the status of the rural organisations as employers, to the hosts of public services and to shopping and business companies. The European Union has one employee in the Brussels Community office and is familiar with the development and international field of the Union. The Agency has the great and important role of caring for active and general interest protection in rural areas of the EU and the European government. A report on the work group shows that a large proportion of the EU's regulations for rural society and affects more than half of the sector's resources, while up to 70% of EU legislation is in areas that affect rural areas. Thus, the subject is very extensive and has a good partnership with the European Community stakeholder CEMR in these matters. In view of the extent of impact on the rural community through the EEA Convention, I believe that there is an opportunity to further improve interest protection in that field, as well as the presentation and training of local government officials on the matter. But my feelings are that after ten years in a rural government, the local government is generally not aware of this great impact until the directives are implemented in Iceland, and often with the related costs of rural society, and the directives from which they come are cursed. But we often do not know in advance or pay close attention. Then I also wondered, " Am I not going too far at times? ' As an example, in the new law on public shopping, you need to invite school drive to the European Economic Area at all the costs involved. And it is right to inform you here that no invitation was received outside the country despite an advertisement in the European Economic Area. But I would like to say that it was a great pleasure to read in the report that the participation in the European Union Structural Fund is generally very good, that 180 Icelandic people have shared in 390 projects in the 15 countries that the fund strengthened during the last period, period 2009◯2014, and that already many projects with Icelandic participation have been adopted in the current period. There has also been a lot of talk today about participation in Iceland's cooperation programmes in the EU and we are largely large. The involvement of Icelandic institutions, corporations, and individuals has yielded a great deal of financial benefits to Icelanders, as well as knowledge supplies, innovations, and important links. In my mind, it's very enjoyable to have EEA cooperation as stable as Iceland's benefits of cooperation are high. This is a partnership that we're going to promote and keep going.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u72	A respectable president. I want to like everyone else who has come here today to thank you for this excellent report that gives us insight into what many have suspected, that the European Economic Convention has had a profound and positive impact on the development of employment, education, and culture and in other areas here. True, it is truths that many claimed to know, that nothing is more important to a small nation than not being isolated by any segregation and predestination. The more alive and practical our dealings with other nations, the more likely we are to create a prosperous and prosperous nation of people. I've heard people talk about that about about about that. A thousand years we would have made contact with some medieval version of the European Union, i.e. with the conversion of Christianity around the year 1000 C.E., when we were associated with the Roman Church and its division in many parts of the European countries. That event, whatever religion may have known, had a tremendous and positive effect on people in Iceland, as it is for all who know the story. With the Roman Church, we learned such magical works as printed language, reading, and writing. We came to know the culture of other nations, philosophies, and history, and throughout Europe, there were many positive relationships. From this time on, there was a marvelous blooming time here, which, of course, reached its climax in the 13th century of Icelandic literature when it was written here all the books that are still read and amazed in many parts of the world. It's a bit remarkable, when you read the history of this time, how much economic prosperity seems to have been linked to this. Icelanders streamed abroad, went down to Rome in war currents, whether for release or for some sort of license, or just to meet the holiness in the area. At least they held like princes on these trips, many of which lasted for years. In the isolation of remote nations, that I speak not of the few, there is a great threat hidden. I was invited to a cultural assembly in the Caucasus Republic of Kirgistan five or six years ago. This was not very many years after they got out of the Soviet freezer, which, of course, brought great relief to them, as was the other nations that had been forced into it. What impressed me was that they held this assembly in an effort to regain cultural relations with the outside world. One after another came the rulers, the prime minister, the mayors, etc., and told us that despite all that had been followed, they had been associated with someone during the Soviet Union. They said: "If something was made remarkable, written or said, if anything happened in this our country, which is between Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, and China, it was at that time in news, and it was read and monitored in such cities as Moscow and Leningrad, and even in Warsaw and Bucharest. But now no one wants to know about us, we have no connection with anything. We need to develop some kind of network again. Up to the bottom of the hall, they said in Kirsistan, adding that they also missed the time when they were part of the Turks a few centuries earlier because they would also have had this living connection with someone else in the world who was interested in them and associated with them. Of course, the powers we are here talking about - whether the Republic or the Soviet Union - broke down lands by warfare and bullying. The European Union, on the other hand, is a free organization of sovereign nations. The countries associated with it have done so because it has been the will of the nation at a time. So we're talking about a different kind of battery. When I think of these matters, I think of some of them that really bothered me when I was about 20 years old, we're talking about Western democratic nations. I have not always liked the cooperation of Western democratic nations. I walked around here in the past, under flags and signs, shouting: " Iceland from NATO and the army! I was answered by men who were part of an organization like the Watchberg, an organization of Western cooperation who said: "We are Western democratic nations, these are our cousins, and we are the most connected, and of course we are to be in cooperation with them. I've seen long ago that what these men said is quite true. We are to have as close as possible and to cooperate with the democratic nations in our part of the world that are next to us and most related to us. So I find it a bit interesting that now that I've come to that opinion, and I'm thinking of joining this organization, Sergeant Varberg, the Western Cooperation organization, when it comes to the cooperation of Western democratic nations, which may have been the best in the last few decades, are very far apart. European Union. I think it's a bit remarkable because NATO and the European Union have headquarters in the same city, Brussels, that when people who are in favor of Western democratic nations come to NATO's headquarters, they meet with friends and those we are in favor with and brotherhood, they meet with a great deal of love. If they cross the road to the European Union headquarters and meet with representatives of the exact same nations there, they can be Danir, Dutch, German, or British, then it has become a colony that is seeking our freedom and resources. It's what happens now that you get more Catholic than the Pope and you don't like friends about Western cooperation because you're way too supportive. From this report, we can learn a lesson about the benefits of being in the European Economic Area. We can also ask ourselves, " Can I read about this situation? ' I think this should be our reminder. It has been said that in the European economy there is an additional kind of gain to the European Union. There is no denying that. They have even said it's like being 66% in the European Union or something like that. We must ask ourselves, " Could it be reasonable at some point to go all the way? ' We know that by being in the EEA, we have no effect, i.e. We are not involved in making decisions that matter much to us - other nations that decide. In this Bgrett's case, sometimes mentioned in humans, that the British have the potential to record this Norwegian route, the EEA system. But how? I think the subjects of the old empire would be regarded if they were to know that they would have to do whatever Germany, France, and the Dutch have decided for them. This is what we need to think.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u73	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. It was fascinating and interesting, especially when he spoke about ancient things and the relationship between Iceland and Europe during the Middle Ages with which he has much knowledge. However, I wanted to respond to certain points in the latter part of his talk, especially to explain the position of a man who supports Western cooperation and supports association with the European Union but does not support participation in the European Union, since this is relatively easy to do. It is not that it is quite black and white, either in international cooperation, in whatever form it appears, or in opposition to it. It's not quite like that. The basis for our involvement in the European Economic Area rests on the fact that, over 25 years, it is natural and reasonable to connect with the European Union in a certain way and on the basis of the EEA Convention. However, the report under discussion shows that there is a significant difference between the European Union and the EEA Convention. Hv. A senator said that no one would object that this is an added European force, but I would like to disagree. I don't think there's an extra share in the European Union. The EEA Convention is a fixed contract involving an arrangement between the three EFTA countries and the European Union. There's no extra charge. I don't think it's the right approach. However, if we look at the information of the report, we will see that there is a considerable difference between both formal and physical relationships between the European Union on the part of the Member States and the association of the EEA treaties. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u74	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The year's Birgir Ármannsson for the counter-sponsored. I'm not going to go into any hairpieces about whether or not we call this adage. Of course, this is not an extra form, but it is something that has been spoken of. What I think was different from 25 years ago when we joined the European Economic Area is that it was so general that it was so blacked out under the sacred truth in Iceland, that we couldn't join in the European Union because we would lose control over our main resources, to some Brussels power. Since then, it has been examined and examined, apart from the fact that much water has flowed to the sea, and then everyone who has studied seems to conclude that it will not alter our authority over that resource. I'm not saying or suggesting that we should enter the European Union beyond applying and hopefully that application is still valid and we can take it into account. There are advantages. We could, for example. Taking up a great deal of coins, but the crumbling and ambiguous Icelandic crown we've been living with. We could enjoy a highly environmental agricultural policy in the European Union, as has been especially shown since they define them as Arctic areas. At the same time, the European Union's regional policy would be of great benefit to the regions. I'm just saying we need to look at the pros and cons.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u75	V.E.G. President. Of course, here in these sales there are sometimes voices for participation in the European Union, but pressure on it has been rarely lower. If you look beyond the walls of the United Nations and the restoration, there's not much pressure in that direction. The groups that have made this their struggle in recent years have not been given much sound foundation, so I don't think that from everything else, it is politically unlikely that the situation will arise here in the following years that involvement in the European Union will be a practical option. What happened to the Memberal application and the adaptation process started in 2009 does not indicate a reason to expect that this will be upcoming. Of course, no one knows what the future holds. However, I believe that if we were to cross specific fields, people would see both the pros and cons in various aspects of the European Union and separate themselves from the European Economic Area. I'm thinking, for example. that many different countries can be visited in the European Union and very different responses on how the euro has proved to be a coin toll in recent years. I think, too, if we take just specific areas like seafood, agricultural, or other factors, people would tell a lot different stories depending on where they were applied in the European Union. However, it is also appropriate to bear in mind that the European Union also includes a much richer expedient of government than of the European Union, and we have little and far too little to discuss today. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's for many people, at least for me, a considerable delicate field that must be approached with caution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u76	The president encourages you. Councilmen to respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u77	A respectable president. Thanks for the second answer. It is true that, of course, the prejudicial factor taken into the European Union after a crash has, of course, resolved considerably. I believe, however, that because we applied for membership, in which we had a lot of work to negotiate, we wrote in the direction of some kind of contract that could be signed under the nation, if it was a mistake and a lot of clumsiness in the government that took over the left government, to send some strange letter to Brussels, a letter that would be well understood not to mark even the editor of the Morning newspaper will take note. I think it would be much more painful in every way to finish this case and then put out a contract for the people. If people are so convinced that there's no more spirit in society, they don't have to worry, they can expect this to be dropped. What I think, however, is that people will like this deal when they see it in their face. But we, as members of those groups who want this matter to be taken care of, don't naturally start chickening off because we feel that something in our community has been reduced. So it's our job to re-hash them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u78	A respectable president. Freedom is good. It's not good because you make money with it. It's just good, just as happiness is good and life is good. Freedom is one of the basic principles that require no underlying justification or defense. It's just a good thing we're supposed to get out of. Yet, just as with life and health and wealth, there are, of course, some limitations. There is always a need to explain the reasons. I mention it because the EEA contract is often discussed with him in the context of losing Iceland's freedom, so I disagree very much. It may be a question of whether to distinguish Iceland from Iceland. I'm not quite sure it's a good idea to make that distinction, nor do I know exactly what was meant by that. We have certainly accepted commitment by becoming members of the EEA agreement, but that is not to say we have lost our freedom. On the contrary, we have gained fourfold, the so - called four freedoms that take up the move, the people, the capital, and the service. It means that if any Icelander can think of, if he just wants to move to Greece and live there for the rest of his life, get work there, or don't, if the same Icelander wants to. It's freedom, a respectable president, and that's good. Of course, this freedom works in both directions, naturally, which is also good. That's about it. 500 million people, to or from, who can move to Iceland and live here today. All Greece could only begin to move to Iceland if all Greece thought of it and it wanted to. But as you can see, it's not the case. Perhaps no wonder, for they now have people who want to be at home in general. A lot of people, in fact, want to be somewhere else, don't really care where they live, but most people just want to be home. This is usually because of some circumstances at home when people move around in large groups. Then there is the problem we should have on that basis. I mention it because there is a certain fear of the EEA. Or what should we say? Some kind of prejudicial disillusionment with certain elements of society at the free flow of people, especially the fear of the Flood, that there is a flood of people here. Now we've been in the EEA for quite some time, and there's still no flood. No matter what, we should not view the EEA agreement or our involvement in it as a national freedom issue. He's Iceland's liberation increase. It gives us greater freedom, and that freedom is good. There's another thing worth mentioning in this, which is that we're in the EEA. The EEA is not just some remote organization that we have decided to admire and submit to. It's an institution we shared in creating, and we're part of. We did so voluntarily as a nation. We can cancel the EEA contracts whenever we want. The reason no one here at the council suggests it, even from the angle that may have the greatest doubts about the scope of this contract, is that it does not want any consequences of resigning it. The consequences are not some punishment. As a result, we would no longer enjoy this freedom. That would be the result. Just like someone who may be a little tired of his work, but he's getting so damn well paid. He won't resign. It's just too much freedom that comes with work. It's too well paid. There's too much beauty and too much foreign trips or whatever people want in their job. And so it is quite natural that some who may be at work that they do not necessarily want to carry out forever, not wanting to quit that job because it is just so well paid. But there are also people who give up a well - paying job because they want, for example. more freedoms, people who work 1,2To 14 hours a day at a very well - paying job but who feel that they just don't enjoy enough, may have a very high salary per month, but they say to themselves: No, I'm going to quit this job, go to work with less pay. That's what I want to do. There's nothing wrong with that. People make these decisions every day, probably in smaller ways, I guess, I assume. But it can and can be done. To have such a talk about the EEA, we first need to consider being a nation/ethnic/anything whether we want to be free. At least I say for myself, "Yes, I want to be free." I want Icelanders to be free, I want everyone to have as much freedom as possible, of course, with the limitations that for some reason people feel so important to mention at every moment when it comes to freedom. But that, of course, means, just like when you hire for a job and get paid ridiculously, you have to make some sacrifices. If we appreciate the sacrifices we make to be part of the EEA community in comparison to the freedoms we receive and simply the economic prosperity that we receive, which, however, is quite large, enormous, I would say, it is very obvious to me. I think it's very obvious that there's a good deal to be in the EEA, that we have to make a very small amount of sacrifices. They exist. Sometimes we need to accept laws that we would not accept. I can give you an example. It is now in the consultation of the government's bill on consumer protection by means of a law against which I do not like, of the law. We'll be here to discuss it, I guess someday in the near future. I hate that law, and I'll probably keep a fire and sulfur speech about it. Let's see what you can do with the process of making it all together. But it's a sacrifice if that's what I think it is. But when I compare that sacrifice with this freedom of four, the sacrifice is still small. There is something else that we forget about the EEA discussion. We usually talk about the EEA all the time on a financial level. We will discuss increased economic growth as a result of freedom of choice and freedom of service and all this freedom. But there's something we don't have that people outside the community may not notice, but I think that the senators have figured out, we have a lot of very serious legislation, legislation that's been putting up so much in, a lot more people than Iceland has had the chance to figure out how much longer and more things are done than Iceland has the ability to do. It is made up of legislation, and after all that, it goes to the EEA, and then it is usually very elegant. Then Iceland's export takes place, and there may be a number of things going wrong. But I'm thinking that a lot -- I don't know what to call a lot of things, someone mentioned 13% earlier, but at least some part of the Icelandic legislature, a very important lawyer - Iceland wouldn't have picked up if it wasn't for the EEA. To illustrate one very recent example, there is a personal protection principle. I have no faith that the Icelandic government, whether the government or the General, would, in effect, have made this elegant, well - thought - out, well - thought - out laws and set them through. I don't believe in that. This is not my experience at the time I have been at the council. Also, there are various financial legislations and the ways that are much more complex and important. Then I come in and see that maybe the biggest problem is that we don't necessarily have time to figure out exactly what's best for us, especially when there's an opportunity to enforce regulations in our situation, but we don't see them early enough to respond in time. That's a problem. It's a sacrifice. There is something that we may be able to fix or do better than that. But I don't think that's a big sacrifice, considering what we're doing with the EEA deal. I'm sorry, I don't have time to go to the Constitution points, but it's such fine talks as they've been held, and I'm sure it'll be a reason to keep more people in line since we've finished our discussion on this subject. I thank you for the time, the respectable president, and I hope that whatever we do, whether it concerns the EEA or the EU, we do it in the name of freedom.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u79	V.E.G. President. I was excited for the part of the talk that would discuss the constitution material. I'll get it up here to answer where it's at. A senator briefly opened up on them. In the motions or in the 15 relief points published in this report, it is precisely about the administrative steps due to the EEA and has to end them either by acknowledging that they have won a administrative policy such as other unscheduled guidelines or by documenting the regulations of the membership in a constitution. There are two ways to find out. I know why. A member of the body has discussed matters of the constitution and has differing opinions on them. Has a what? A senator formed an opinion as to whether both roads are effective? Which path will comfort the senator better?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u80	A respectable president. As far as I can see, the first way is the one we're on now, whether we like it or not, but I'm more comfortable with the second, i.e. putting a clear exposé in the constitution. Thank you. A senator for giving me time to discuss this. This is extremely important. Of all the vital changes in operation, this is one of the more important. Not because it is so urgent to expand authority, but to make it clear where the line is or whether it is at the head of a line because there is almost a void in the republic's constitution today. There's a mention that the president can make some deals, but there's no guidance. There are no criteria. There's no line. The line we live in today's day is, in fact, that this scholar, then the other scholar, is called, and there's no conclusion, until the council votes at a Senate Hall. I find that one of the most unpleasant ways possible to determine a constitution, that the lawgiver himself, who should, of course, be bound and restricted by the same constitution, should determine what the constitution is and what is not. I think it's a personal thing. I feel that this should always happen in the end in one way or another to be with the courts, and then, of course, courts need something predictable to work out. In the case of extenuating authority, no matter how it might be viewed, that must be clear. I think because this vacuum is present in the constitution as it is today, there is really no limit to how far you can go, as long as it is possible and really going fast. I think that would be just more arguing about it, that would be a hotter discussion, she would be more boring, most likely, and longer. But in the end, I consider the vacuum in the current constitution of these materials to be a very real problem and one of the biggest problems to be fixed with a new constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u81	V.E.G. President. I appreciate that answer. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the Parliament, in fact, on the Board of Directors. We agree that this is the trinity of the state, and it is relatively awake in the minds of members of Congress. But when the senator, on the basis of this, feels that a government law code is never entitled and never exists?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u82	A respectable president. Of course she does. She exists because she must exist. I can't picture it ever being different. On the other hand, I feel basically bad to rely on it, especially if the general understanding -- I don't even know myself what I mean by general understanding, whether I'm talking about general understanding of lawyers or public understanding of voters or authorities -- whatever it is -- whatever it is at one point, say 1991, clearly but nowhere written down in a completely established administration program, and then the years and decades go by then the administration order begins to change, but somehow the conversation never occurs about how things should be done. I always want to have the most clear guidance in the constitution, especially when it comes to the limits of authority. After all, there is a limit to power that we are talking about. We are talking about expeditors in a constitution, a law to limit the authority's ability to betray authority. I have full respect and appreciation for all the discussions that take place among scholars and that will exist in history and whatever. However, it is fundamental that the public citizen can read and understand the constitution. That's a basic point in my mind. I'm telling you, the concept of administration is probably confusing most of the audience who listen to the Council. That, on its own, is a problem. It doesn't have to be. You can simply make it clear in the constitution. But, of course, there will always be administrative practices, there will always be judgments. There's always gonna be something that's confusing things. It is not a perfect system, nor can it be the law system or the constitution or anything. But this seems to me to be a very obvious failure of the constitution and relatively obvious in my opinion how to fix it, and I think we should do it, and I think it's very important that we do it. I hope that answers a question. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u83	Madam President. We'll discuss reports at the highest level. Secretary of State, on the one hand of the implementation of the EEA Convention and the other about the benefits and defects of Iceland's Member States in the European Economic Convention, which is actually called the Report of the EEA Cooperation Group. I want to thank you at the beginning of my speech. Secretary of state for his review of this report earlier today. Mr. President. I'm going to discuss a report on the EEA work group, which is very clear and useful in a number of ways when considering the EEA community. For the work of this group, we owe it to them. There is no doubt that the EEA has been a success for us in many ways. We have been going through a unique economic growth season marked by great and unprecedented progress in this country. This recent report is a petition from the council. The request was adopted at the General Assembly three times, at 148th, at 149th Council, and at the current council. A report was requested from the Foreign Minister on the benefits and defects of Iceland's Member States to the European Economic Area Convention. It was requested that the Minister of Foreign Affairs deliver a report on the benefits and defects of Iceland's Member States to the European Economics Convention and the impact of the Convention on the United States. That is how the request, Madam President, sounded, and I was in three - step entourage at this request by Generalis. In a letter, the highest. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, which he assigned to a group of three lawyers who, by permission of the President, worked on the EEA Group report, and is in five teams: There will be an overview and an assessment of the benefits that Iceland has gained from sharing in the EEA partnership and the main solutions established by the government in the implementation of the EEA Convention. Other teams in the highest address book. A minister assigned to the staff is first to evaluate the code of laws introduced in Iceland in the areas covered by the EEA Convention, and other factors additionally specified. Second, evolution is to be viewed as a communication process. Third, consider the reports published over the past few years on the communications between Iceland and the European Union and as large a report by the Norwegians, which appeared a few years ago and at the latest, the task force writes on reports and textbooks linked to the membership of Iceland to the EEA Treaty. In the introduction to the head of the staff group, the objective of the group was not to sit in court for the pros and cons of the EEA community. Injured by the General Assembly, Madam President, did they sit on any court seat? Was it too much to expect that the benefits and shortcomings of those who have appeared to us in this cooperation would be objectively addressed? It was not normal to discuss the situation with the 102nd parr. The deal, the emergency drug that came up last summer, was a big one? This is stated in the report on page 22. 76◯77 and be content to quote the comments of the European Court of Human Rights in the University of Reykjavík. Of all the data, opinions, and discussions that took place all spring, summer and fall, the staff might well have considered much detail about the situation in which we entered and whether this arrangement of the agreement is active or not. At least it's there. However, this was the case as a legal adviser to the government, Stefán Már Stefánsson and Friðriksson Furksson Hirst, had recommended in his thorough opinion for the first benefit; this is taken up in this report in the way I was referring to the above. Madam President. Was it not also natural to discuss the two - supporting system so called, and this situation in relation to what scholars have discussed regarding the interaction between ACER and ESA with certain aspects of the third energy directive, which was widely discussed in the last summer? The aforementioned executives of the government considered in our opinion that the exercise of power in it caused a crisis on the most recent terms of the Constitution. Madam President. When comparing the report with the letter, there is nothing for the report itself to check. She stands for her own. She's good for her bridge. It's the highest. Ministers to answer why the request or content has not been placed before the staff as did the General. This is a question of whether to perform a request agreed on by the Parliament on a three-way basis and whether the report includes an adequate and adequate response to the report request. Madam President. I'm not going to pronounce any judgments, but it's been suggested that the Presidency Committee has received some recent discourses on council inquirys that have not been adequately addressed. Well, it's the council that's asking for this report.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u84	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Now I have to admit, I don't quite realize what's happening. A senator is leaving. I didn't think that was clear. Now that we've been talking many times, we've talked about it. The opinion of the scholars Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, and Friðrik of the Árni Fridrik Friðriksson of Hirst They had to send a special statement to explain more clearly because of instructions given here at the council in connection with that speech, and I don't know if there is anything we do by repeating it all. I completely disagree with what you're saying. Senator. Now that I've been at the council for a long time, I've been asking for some reports. I don't recall before when members of Congress asked for a report that they were as thorough and as useful as here, and I was delighted to hear how they were doing. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson spoke about the report earlier. If this report is not sufficient to meet the request, it is far more difficult. A respectable president. When a matter like this is discussed, it cannot be placed in an excel- till it comes along with some conclusions. We hear it, for example. in discussions at the council - and so may it always be - that there are various opinions regarding the report and the cooperation. But if I'd received such a report on my reporting requests as a senator in which so much work is involved, I would have been the least satisfied. [[The president calls.]] I never received a report like this, even though I asked for a few things in my career as a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u85	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. If the highest. My words have been heard by a minister, and I commended the report not only for its accuracy but also its substance. I'm saying that I find it missing a more detailed discussion of the problems of the work, and I read it earlier in the platform and quoted both the letter, very detailed, and the words of the head of the staff on how he would like to handle it. Well, I guess. My review focuses on the fact that the letter does not contain details of the report request and that the report is normally assigned. This is a very thorough and good report, and I agree with it at the highest level. Minister. I'm not finding it. Whether this is the most thorough or best report, I don't know. This is the first report I'm a part of, that I think, to ask for and I thank her and I did so before. I'm saying that the content of the Adolescence reports adopted here in the trilegates of Generalis are not presented, as far as I can see and read earlier, in the letter of business.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u86	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear that. A senator is pleased with the report. Hv. A senator made a special point earlier that according to reports, the authors did not intend to sit down on a judge's seat. I think that was a good idea. It's just a way of life that the things that only one thinks are ugly to another. As I understand the results of this report, we have a report that makes us, in this case, members of Congress, but, of course, the entire nation, has information and facts from what was asked to be put together in a letter of inquiry. Then maybe. A senator comes up here and says that something in there is just a flaw with his cooperation, someone else may think it's an option. The point is, we are here with all the information requested. In such a request - or I feel the same way - it is much better to get information this way because all members of the council, and, of course, a lot more and perhaps all, are able to read the report to develop their own view of whether it is good or bad. Everyone can appreciate that. In my mind it's a matter of Congress and nation to appreciate it, in our case, because we're thinking about our interests - unless people have concluded after reading the report that we're not to be in there, that's also a point of view, or asked for a change in the agreement or something like that. That is how I understand it when men set out that they are not to be judged. I think it's wise, because we can all shape our views. [[The president calls.]] I certainly know why. paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautaçin that he will have no problem molding the opinions of the individual chapters of the report and the results and the EEA contract as a whole.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u87	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister once again before the counter-sponsored. Is it too much to ask, Madam President, that when the Council approves a threesome call and it is put in the simple manner I read earlier, to the highest level. Does a minister repeat it in his letter so that authors who work since the report can review the material without making any court seat talk objectively discuss the issues that have existed? I mentioned two examples earlier. There would be a benefit in getting coverage - more detailed, as I mentioned earlier - in the report on, for example. These two examples, about the two differences I mentioned, paragraph 102. and the two support systems. The letter says, with president's permission: a summary will be made and analyzing the benefits of the participation in the EEA work is the best thing this is. All you need is half the request - pros and cons.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u88	V.E.G. President. What one person feels is bad for another, and what one feels is an option for another. When traceable, the facts on the subject and how things have evolved, e.g. After the EEA contract, of course, there are some facts that appear on the paper as a defect. However, I find it amazing to hear the negative tone of information and the kind of work that is actually heard in a speech spoken by the senator. I can't help but see that it's e.g. Consider one of these points just fine, although this may not be done with the exact words that please. Senator. It is not that the council can send a note request and order the results, order the words they want. That's not how it works. However, there is an enormously detailed and well - equipped report, in my opinion and that I think all of those who have participated in the discussion today, which will be useful in maping what we are going to do next. Here are better suggestions for, of course, something that might be called a fault for our actions, a failure of how we have dealt with the terms of the agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u89	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and welcome her back to the Assembly Hall. I may not have heard exactly what the question was, but I take it for her comments, that some may see the faults. There's a big misunderstanding. Senator. I'm not talking about the flaws in this report at all. I'm talking about how the request is requested at the Council, and then it's the highest. Minister to enforce it by preparing a letter for the staff to win the report. I'm talking about there being cut between the two. If the wording is checked in the report request and then the expression in the address book, it does not match. This is a sign from the report. There is no detailed discussion of the issues I have mentioned many times in the talk chair. Discriminations, such as approximately 102th. The deal, I mentioned it. It is supplied in the report with a very short overview and only referred to as one institution. Then there's the two-part system. I would have liked to have more coverage about it. I believe that if the letter had followed the wording of the request we agreed at the General Assembly, the report might be a little more detailed or different and we might have a more thorough discussion of the subjects that we have discussed at the General Assembly in the past month. That's what I'm talking about. I don't just see the flaws, not at all. I mentioned it in my speech, e.g. how practical our cooperation would have been, and I see that the report is very thorough.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u90	V.E.G. President. I understood a speech. The senator would want something in this report, without a discussion about it as a matter of course. A senator thinks he's the biggest flaw. At least that was the way I understood the talk. I simply believe that when a minister accepts a report request that has been accepted at the council and applies it so that the work being done is more detailed and contains more information than the council actually asks - and I have to say that this is now with more detailed reports that the Ministers have submitted to the General Report Request - then it must be good only if the council receives more information, more careful work to build their work in the future. At any rate, I view it as an advantage, not as a flaw.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u91	Madam President. I thank you for this second answer, which I don't think was a question more than the first one. But at the end of my talk, I mentioned that the Council's Presidency Committee for Prime Ministers had issued a complaint about written inquiry at the council that is not answered or answered very late. I won't pronounce any judgments, but I find this point to a letter at the top. Ministers are not in full agreement with the General Report Request. I think so. Of course, it can help anyone to see if that is the case or if he thinks it is the case. The report in itself is very good. Yeah, now people laugh in side rooms, that's fine. But I simply insist that the Council is taken seriously and when we agree, I'm not talking about in trimeters, a request with the same wording, it's not done, and there's no change in word, so let's go. Ministers of approval of the Generals and get them on their way to the administration system properly and effectively. I'm not finding the report. How many times should I say that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u92	Madam President. First, I want to thank you for this discussion today that has to do with the State Minister's report on the implementation of the EEA contract and then we'll discuss the report of the EEA work group. I thought it would be very positive that we took more of these discussions and cut the matter a little bit down on the report of the foreign minister, defense and security and such factors, there might be a special talk at the council. First, I want to thank the authors of this great report, Björn Bjarnason, Kristrún Heimisdóttir and Bergþóra Halldórsdóttir, for the huge document. I am one of the 13 senators who wrote last year on request for a report that would discuss the benefits and shortcomings of Iceland's contract on the European Economic Area and the impact of the contract has had on the country. I would like to go to new countries in the discussion of the work group reporting today and discuss them primarily in the field of employment, gains and defects, with the emphasis on aluminium production in the country that is rarely spoken of. This film has been creating in my head the last few years that the EEA Convention is an enormously important country of production, and I will review it in this speech. The EEA Treaty plays a major role in the competitiveness of aluminium production in Iceland. A report by the EEA Work Group shows that the production of aluminium in Iceland is very benefiting from Iceland's involvement in the EEA. A report of the workgroup includes: to the common EU market is to the market of Icelandic countries. They are within customs barriers, but tolls on aluminium which are transferred into the European Economic Area are in the range of 41.77%. On the 1st of July. So they were glad that it was half a century after the production of aluminium in Straumsvík. During the first few years, some 40,000 tons were produced in an icebox factory. Slowly, the business grew larger, and after 25 years of operation, the production was made to some 100,000 tons. Thus, growth developed until the implementation of the EEA Treaty on January 1, 1994. What has happened since then in this country at the time of the EEA contract, i.e. For the last 25 years? It is interesting to wonder about the timeline in the growth of aluminium production here in the country following the EEA Convention. In 1998, about four years after the approval of the contract, the Northern Empire of Gruntel was initiated. At first, the annual production of Northern steel was 60,000 tons, during the next 15 years, resulted in a large growth in North World production, with a total production of 290,000 tons in 2013. In Straumsvík, there was an expansion of the aluminium capital from 100,000 tons to 1 60,000 tons at the time the North World function began. In 2008, a remote vehicle in a disaster ended up in a full - time supply of some 350,000 tons of the year. Last year, the total production in this country was just over 900,000 tons. At the beginning of the EEA contract, as I entered earlier, it was 100,000 tons. The production has multiplied over 25 years. The high production rate in Iceland during the last 25 years, or since the EEA Convention went into effect, has had a major impact on the Icelandic economy. The conference debate on the importance of aluminium production for the Icelandic economy has been very limited. So I would like to use this opportunity when we discuss the benefits and flaws of the EEA Convention, to discuss the importance of the deal that has to do with the nation's economy. A major industry in Iceland and electricity production has built a powerful foundation for the economy that may not have been true in this country's discussion. I mention, for example, the importance of aluminium production followed by the collapse of the bank, where the currency pay of aluminium production along with the growth of tourism - and I don't forget the fishing road - put us Icelanders at a magically difficult time out of a crisis. The total currency pay due to trade and services was 1,323 billion last year. Last year the Icelandic World Power was exporting products for 220 billion dollars. and Europe is the largest market in the world. The import of Europe's market from abroad is tolls up to 4◯7%, but because of Iceland's involvement in the EEA area, Iceland is available within the tollamurs, as mentioned earlier in the talk. The fact in which aluminium production is relatively low is fundamental to the operation of an aluminium being in Iceland, but it is rarely discussed in that context, so I wanted to discuss it today. The energy dealer to Iceland's major industry is over 50 billion a year. I also want in this context to focus on the competitiveness of aluminium production in Iceland, which is then a large part of the EEA Convention, saying that last year the world's annual production was about 70 million tons. Worldwide, more than half of all aluminium production is taking place in China today. The Chinese produced just over 40 million tons in 2018 or about 57% of the world's production. In this context, it should be noted that by the turn of the century, China's share was not like what we see today. There has been a huge growth in the production of aluminiums in China in the past 20 years, and when you start thinking about that matter, as I've done the past year, you see that the EEA deal is fundamental in all of this. The production of aluminium is today about 15% of the nation's total transport income, as we know the past few years, and the cost of an aluminium in Iceland last year was some 86 billion in the country. It's a straight-on currency fee for a Icelandic national store. As noted earlier, the export of Icelandic plants was about 220 billion. The competition between the European Union and the European Economic Areas is one of the main factors involved in the production of green electricity at an advantage. The panel here is about 300 pages. Since I was one of the report requests last year, I'm very pleased with this document and the information that is drawn up by the press. As noted in the interviews with the head of the press, students of the report will have to continue working a little further with this, as I am pointing out by the production of aluminium in the country. Another thing I'd like to point out, since I have two minutes left, and I think that all of this is extremely important, with regard to the EEA Convention and us as participants in it, is the Icelandic flight. Our members in the European Air Safety Agency are an enormously important foundation for flying in Iceland, the work being done there, the Witnesses, and other activities that come through it. The most important point is that Icelanders and Norwegians, through the EEA, are indirectly agreeing to the Open Skies Convention between the European Union and the United States. Europe and the United States negotiated 2009 on this contract called Open Skies. Iceland and Norway enter that contract in 2011. I don't think that's one of the major factors involved in flying in Iceland and the huge increase in international tourism, that this is one of the major factors in the whole matter. When this airport market was opened, and especially to the United States, Iceland was able to fly far and wide throughout the United States all and Canada to a far greater extent than the national defence agreement, or the contract we reached with the United States at its time for permission to fly to the United States. If we take a major industry in the country and the air business and the tourism services, we're talking about the total transport and currency income of Icelanders. I thought it best to include only in the talk how much a fundamental agreement this was in the large context of the nation's economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u93	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of state for our report. The EEA Work Programme provides a very complete summary of the EEA contract, how it has been carried out here on the country, how it has affected Icelandic legislation, and information on how to improve its effectiveness. It's very interesting to interrupt the report. Many senators have taken notes from the 15 cut-off points, and it's very good to draw attention to them, but I would like to talk only about the effects that the EEA has had on the Icelandic economy and the Icelandic national population. The contract provided regulations that ensured full freedom in business through products and services, the free movement of people and the free capital transport, as well as the international rules for competitiveness in this country. There had been a currency chief, and the Contestance Commission actually succeeded from prices. The Icelandic Seafood industry may be the largest benefit in the EU and hence the Icelandic national industry, but with the change in 1999, when the European Food Act of the EU that turned towards seafood products became legalized on land, the market of goods and services became simpler in foreign countries. Marine companies received market access, and their relationship to the market changed dramatically. The European Economic Area is Iceland's most important market, and it reports in 2018 that 77.3% of all exports from Iceland went to that area as well as that from the EU and EEA countries, 60.6% of the total export of goods to the country. I have already discussed the changes the contract has had in consumer protection and must not forget how it has affected work care. We know well what has been done here at the council that the directives we receive really concern with whatever, including. Electrical appliances in the homes. I'll mention the big vacuum business that was trolling the council a few years ago, and I'll remember a long time ago, forgetting the light bulbs. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] We sometimes think it's a little awkward, but, overall, we have a uniform EEA rules for safety, e.g. In transportation, in cars and flights, and in shipping safety. This has meaning for us. Local residents can live, travel and work anywhere within the European economy, and our students have the strength to educate themselves in the region. At the same time, we know the consequences of financial collapse, and it is important for us to be part of a financial monitoring system in the area. It's all shaped our community, and it's really hard to imagine what life would be like if we'd never become a member of the EEA Treaty. The report discusses some detail about the economic effects of involvement. The prosperity of the nation's population has been intense if we take the last 25 years. Iceland's diplomacy grew considerably after Iceland walked in the EEA, and some feared that when a country with a special market, a party would become part of the deal, we might lose our identity and maybe lose out. Free trade and access to markets, however, have made a huge difference to us, and we know how much our community has changed. It is not just that consumers now have more goods available to purchase shops but much more demand for those who are selling and trying to fit in. We know that, for example. for electronic monitoring. That's what matters. The report points to the results of the German research agency Betelsmann Stftung, who tried to assess the economic benefits of the joint market for Europe and areas within Europe. The Agency took Iceland, Norway, and Switzerland into this assessment. The objective of this study was to assess the impact of the common market on GDP per population, and the benefits were calculated to the population. It says that Iceland's economic benefits over sharing in common markets are high. According to the Agency's opinion, the benefit of each Iceland will be greater than 1,000 euros per year, i.e. 140000 k. Based on the results, Iceland is one of the countries that, considering the benefits of each population, is expected to be a member of the common market. We must be happy about this. These findings are compared with the results of the EEA Association, which did little research this year, and as is true of this report to the Institute of Economics, which summarised information on the effectiveness of the EEA Convention on the Icelandic economy. It was published in January 2018. Overall, this contribution has had a tremendous impact on our economy for the better, and it is a pleasure to see it here in a thorough argument.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u94	V.E.G. President. First, I want to thank you for these reports and foreign ministers for their transport and fine discussion. I feel, after listening to the discussion today, that several members of the Parliament are doing a little bit of digging so that some have an EEA contract and others are opposed. I don't think it's right to deal with this. The agreement is natural, very complex, functional, and unusual because it is being added constantly. Then there is another person who is actually adding to the agreement, and we must always be on our toes and look out for him. It must be the natural attitude to be on guard; you are never entirely at all or against it. Many have considered many benefits that the contract has brought and in many areas, showing how important it is and thus also complex. I find it hard to judge exactly what the deal has done and what it's done, because we can't say that we didn't do good without it, and we could have messed up a few things, even though it wasn't there. The question is, What is the result? If you take it together for a moment, you must continue to discuss the contract and work on it. What a lot of people have come in here is where we may have failed the most, and that we should have been paying more attention to things from the start, I'd like to say that it's not enough for officials to observe things because some of this is pure politics. The political must observe and may take a stand on matters much sooner than it is and know what's going on. The hall of the sovereignty, how it is carried out, and where the boundary is. This is clear, and many have said so. I also feel a very important question: Is there actually an emergency? We need to think about it and test it at some point. Especially will it be difficult when the short steps are taken each time, and each step may not be big enough to help people to stay on course. When and where can you draw a line into the sand? This is a challenge. Then we have to trust the court system with the deal. We recently found that since people thought that there was a common understanding, it did not prove to be when the judgment was pronounced. This only reduces confidence in the agreement and causes a little difficulty in many people. When are we sure that what we thought we had agreed on? This is what I would like to say in short, and I would like to direct it to the minister of foreign affairs, others, and members of the council to continue working on these matters and to define the contract in order to better understand it. That's the basic thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-10-15-18.u95	A respectable president. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. Parliamentaries who have participated in this discussion. I've felt that it was good and productive, and there's hope that the rest would be good. When we talk about working these things together, working with the council, it's my opinion that we should do so in this way. I was asked what the government will do about these 15 reform points? The government is talking to the council and the Senate committees to get their views. If we came here and said we were going to do all this, or that we were going to do 10 out of 15 or what it is, it wouldn't be a personal consultation to me. I can only hear here the agreement on the EEA largely, and maybe all, and that we can work together to study this countermandal publication, this report, and then decide what steps we're going to take to strengthen our interest. The conclusion of the report is in my mind: First, the benefits are obvious and some of the points presented were surprising to me. I did, for example. Not realizing that 2018 was published with 62,753 health insurance cards. I'd think a lot of it would be older people staying in the south parts of Europe, probably younger people too. We knew and knew that younger people would benefit from some educational and scientific activities and we also knew of the outstanding benefits that can be derived from having a company in Reykjavík, who are competing at this market without having to move them to Rotterdam or Hamburg or anyone else in Europe. Sometimes we forget that it's good for everyone to have general guidelines on the market. It is especially important for the little ones who are unable to wield power if they are wronged, as the larger powers have at times. This means that the German government cannot promote abnormal government grants to compete with our company, for example. It's not a small deal, it's a big deal. It's very interesting to review the discussion that happened when the EEA deal passed through the council. What did they talk about there? It reflects what Icelandic society was like back then. When people talked about exports, they only talked about two, fish and aluminum. Happily, we have much more support for our job life, and thankfully, we have become much more diverse. Second, the choices that exist are not good. There have been times when Switzerland has been referred to as having a very good arrangement, but it is a fine way, which I was so fully aware of, in the report, what that arrangement is like. If people disagree that we don't have enough information about the rules of the game to say something, surely they don't want to be in the same place as Switzerland. They'll just have to record it, if they're going to be with us at this market, which is set before them. Third, we make our own good fortunes. What surprises me is what humans have criticized and were concerned about the changes in the deal over the last 25 years. Most of them, although they can always debate what is technical and what is political, is what has to be developed. You rightly point out that therefore the EEA contract is still valid and active because it is always changing. If the EEA deal was the way it was 25 years ago, everyone in this room would say it was totally useless. It was made 25 years ago when there were not even computers, when the environment was completely different. If the deal was unchanged, business in the European Economic Area could not be handled because it was totally out - of - date rules. However, the contract is alive so that the market remains active, and the changes in technology are not to be prevented from doing business but are being tried to bring it into the contract. As happened last night. A senator needs us to keep an eye on this, i.e. Governments, for some are political - stakeholders and interests. There are some in this hall who want to go much further in their fusion development, even want to walk in the European Union, and others who want us to be in this partnership but do not go that way. They have a different approach when it comes to the interests of others. Therefore, we need to keep a close eye on this. That's what I've been focusing on as a minister since the first day, and this report is part of it. Fourth, I think it's important for men to face the fact that different people have tried to undermine the EEA agreements. Now I'm not saying that it's against the EEA Convention. I'm not saying that. I'm not saying it's forbidden to criticize the EEA deal, not at all. What I'm saying, however, is that if you're gonna do it, they're gonna have to do it right. It's, for example. absolutely clear, and no one can argue that those who want to enter the EU have repeatedly insisted that we take up to 90% of the EU types through the EEA Convention. That's not true, that's well under 20%. In fact, there is also some question about what it means to be in the European Union. Everyone can find out what they want. It is ironic that the same thing happened in Iceland and Norway, just some time later, that those who want to walk out of the EEA have adopted EU argument and use it as a reason we have to walk out of the EEA. That's not better. The final speaker specifically asked if an emergency was permitted. It's undisputed. It's unmistakably that we can totally handle the emergency, but we'll take it because it's our last resort, and we have a critical reason. I mentioned here in the discussion, which should not be a secret, and I've been able to believe since 2011, that it is, for example, the first time the case came up in 2011. We are not offered to accept the state responsibility of the bank accounts. To me, it's a serious matter, and I don't know what reasons those who don't understand how important it is for us not to go that way have a way of speaking against our language. I was happy to find convergence among members of the council on that matter, and that is important. Finally, I hope, and the discussion shows that this can become a foundation for an informed discussion of this agreement, and that is a key. It will be interesting to see how languages will develop in Icelandic politics in the near future. As the situation is now, it is quite clear that the members of the government are the custodians of the EEA Convention, which leads me to these different categories, the Independence Party, the forward party and the left green. Then there are groups that even have their strategy to enter the European Union. I don't have to mention them. The question must be, What will be the evolution of the Central Party? They're going to go as far as the group that just got involved here with the third energy package that wants to walk out of the European Economic Area, and then I'm referring to Norway? I don't think I'm the only one who's gonna be really keeping an eye on the progress of the media class. The reason I'm taking it up here is because I think it's very important that it's quite clear. Now it may well be that we would want things to be completely different from the world. In my mind, there is no better option for us Icelanders when it comes to our relationship with Europe than the European Economic Convention. I have been that way for a very long time, and this report today is all that I want to develop. When we discuss foreign affairs, we must discuss not only the interests of the interests but also the future, how we envision it. To me, it's perfectly clear that we should stick with the EEA agreement and sharpen our interests. It's the best thing for us Icelanders in the present and future.
