ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-29-113.u1	The discussions take three rounds, each group eight minutes in the first round, five minutes in the second, and five minutes in the last round. The order of the classes will be this in all traffic: the central category, the Independence Party, the Conspiracy, the left movement a green supply, the Piratars, the forwarders, the exodus, and the group of the people. For the Central Party Árnadóttir Kolb Kolbrún, 8th. That's the north side. "In the first round, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, 8th o'clock. South, second and third, Sæmundsson, 10th. Smoke. The path to the program "umount" The members of the Independence Party are Haraldur son of Benediktsson, 1st. Witchest. "In the first round, in the second Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndóttir, 5th. Smoke. n., and in third round Óli Kárason Kálmson, 10th. We're out of here. For United States we speak in the first round of Oddný G. Harðardóttir, 6th. South, Second Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, 4th. We're out of here. , and in the third Helga Vala Helgadóttir, 4th st. Smoke. n. For the left movement, a green supply of Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, 7th That's the north side. "In the first pass, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, 3th. Witchest. , in the second and third round Ingi In Jónsson, 9th. Smoke. n. Pirata's speakers are in the first round of Halldóra Mogensen, 11th. Smoke. n., second Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, 3th. Smoke. n., and Olga Margrét Cilia, 4. Smoke. So, third round. The rest of the debaters are Willum Þór Þórsson, 9th. We're out of here. "In the first round, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir 9. That's the north side. , in the second and third round of Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, 7th. Witchest. For the restoration, first round, Þorsteinn Víglundsson, 7th. Smoke. n., in another Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, 7th Smoke. So, and on the third round Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, 13th, respectively. We're out of here. For the Gang of the People, Inga Sæland, the 8th. Smoke. So, first and third round, but Guðmundur Inngi Kristinsson, 12. We're out of here. , in the second round.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-29-113.u2	V.E.G. President. My fellow Americans. We live in a land where each individual is precious. Thus, after this session, there is something special that has not been made to meet the reasonable and natural demands of a pensioner for the improved recovery. Most of us, if not all here at the council Hall, have suggested that now is the time to take off a crown against a dollar, so it is surprising that a dollar is still being cut off. It has also been observed that while less than a few years have been treated, it seems to me that the poor have had to deal with illegally damaged farms, and it seems to me that they are not to be met for a long time and that they are to be met for the next few years because of obvious violations of law. Our health is precious to us, and it is my view that we should use all the energy available. Despite the wonderful promise that there will be no shorter than a short list of replacement operations, little or nothing has been cleared up in this regard. A large number of people have yet to wait, and a number of people have stepped forward and described a truly painful situation. They have not been listened to. It has to be said here that not everyone can afford to pay for such a procedure from his own pocket, and we should keep in mind that all inhabitants of the country have the right to enjoy the health services of the health system at all times. Most people at some point in their lives need it, so it's a remarkable fact that the situation is like this. Still, there are conflicts with experts who could indeed help with so many. Sadly, the government has taken the Polish stand not to welcome all those who have the ability and will to assist. That alone is a matter of concern. There is an unacceptable waiting period for analyses at the Development and behavioral stations, and I know for sure that employees there are all of them willing to do their job lovingly, but there's more to it. So there's the same situation at the State Analysis Centre. There is a waiting period after diagnosis and, therefore, appropriate assistance. It's completely unpleasant. Clearly, governments are on the wrong track. We often say that people should seek help. This is especially true in mental health. But what happens to people who are really trying to get help? Nothing more than discouragement. It's very painful to know, but this is a real situation, and the government has to do better. True, the health - care status of psychologists has been increasing, but that is not enough, is just not enough, and the government has to do better. There is a lack of real policy and action plan in many areas of health and health, and here I am referring to rehabilitation, aging services, public health, prevention, nursing policies as well as mental health care. The government seems to be in charge, for example. Do not realize that the elderly are growing and need to be treated in harmony with this service. Since there is a distinction between state and rural society, it appears that there is always the beginning of each event. Those who suffer are the people who are so desperately needed for service, natural. Finally, I would like to point out that health care has to be around the country. We already see that all who need such a service are no longer headed for a single hospital on Ring Road. The fact that everyone has the opportunity to have health care in their home area is surprising, and it is surprising to see the independence party bowing to the direction of the green people in such important issues as health care and health care. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-29-113.u3	Mr. President. The good people of the country. Now that the ideal period is only half past the limit, an alternative to the now - to - be - true government section is one of the most practical. We knew at the outset of the Catherinen government of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir that there are differences in energy and policy that are basically different about how to build an Icelandic society and how to handle matters. The political issues that have taken place in many countries in recent years, political ideologies have surrounded the sword and have faced difficult and complex tasks on the basis of bringing solutions together in broad harmony and on the basis of conflicting views. Thus, it has been informative to observe the campaign in Denmark during the past few days where political opposers have not excluded cooperation with one another after the end of elections, something that appeared to be a remote reality in the time of traditional inhibitors. A respectable president. There is reason to mention this, for surely cooperation, like what we now have in this government, does not necessarily work. The work has been going well, even hoping forward, and this is what I mention here in view of the fact that when you look over this hall, you can't see that another pattern was possible or practical at the beginning of the season. This is where the government groups go out and south, and it is difficult to see how they could help with our day's activities. It is a challenge to be in a position of government opposition, but it was only political news today that the anti - general groups set up behind the Middle East. In the present administrative work, it is a natural challenge for us independents to stick to our policies and achieve them. This balance is a challenge, and I allow myself to assert that such a balance is guided by the government and may reflect it only on the constant issues, to control economics firmly and to make a success of it. The government took an important step in working out the workforce. The arrival of the government creates a fertile land for responsible and important measures in order to prevent this from becoming the well - known rock - mass, which, unfortunately, we know all too well in this country. The government's tax reduction plans improve the benefits of those with the lowest wage, but at the same time, there is a high regard for welfare matters, which, in the same way, are built up in the interests of families. The weather, however, is quick, and we know it very well. At budgets for 2019, economic forecasts for economic growth were well over economic growth, but today economic forecasts have taken from more than 4% interest to 0.2% of the temporary contractions, most contracting in one year since 1992, with the exception of the years surrounding the financial collapse. We face a tighter situation than no one strikes, a strong position in the government, and the strong standing of the homes of the country. The wealth has reached its debts, and home is less debt than before, and this is important. It is always important that we use the past few years to prepare for the situation that has come up. All indications indicate that there will be a soft landing, even a contact landing, someone said, " Touch the economy." The wealth of government is a means of counteracting contractions, not exaggerating the setback. Also important is the fact that professional life is strong. Similarly, let us not forget many of the struggles of the past few years of political parties, as has been planned here, about a large increase in value tax in tourism. And if they had to deal with such taxation in today's environment, how would an attitude in Icelandic tourism be affected? Would it have eased her propaganda, or would the contractions have become sooner and more severe? Happily, the tourism service has served a level to cope with challenges associated with the reduction of tourists to the country. If this were not the case, we might be talking about a much more difficult and heavier situation. As a result of the economic situation, the government has now declared revised financial policy, but financialism is the first national financial issue of each government at the beginning of its terms. The legal code on public financial matters currently produced financial policies and her situation was widely discussed, including how to deal with unpredicted income contractions, but it specifically shows the need to revise financial policies if it becomes clear that its objective is not fully met and that it is specifically set in a paper in the regulations of the bill, which later became part of the law, how to deal with if there is a loss in the job business and therefore a financial recession of the state. At the same time, it is not surprising that the smaller part is trying to beat political cones with criticism of financial reviews. Listening to such language is unique. Most of the main objectives of economicism are overlooked. The financial policy is not only about Kingdom funds but also about debt rates and many other factors. So these critical voices are to say that our public funds are a community fund, and its business has never been some island that is not concerned with the realities of today's day. The same political groups have brought changes to the budget during the last two autumns, where expenses were truly swollen and tax laws in the highest levels, especially in the form of our valuable occupations. So where would the space have been to cope with the blow? A respectable president. There are many important subjects discussed in the budget of the government now being treated at the council. I mention only two tiny, targeted, ambitious action on climate, issues no longer in tomorrow's politics but today, and the next few days, ambitious proposals for efforts to support the revolution in our infrastructure to cope with the energy exchange in transport. I also present challenges that come with the nation's increasing age. I say we have to reconsider the arrangements we have today for the construction and management of nursing homes. We must make better use of the funds we have put into them buildings and house such a business. We need to reevaluate the demands and arrangements for such a operation. We may need to unite in the cross - laity of this hall to think all of this over again, how we support older people who are faced with health problems, and how help is needed, start a discussion, and prepare to extend as much time as possible to people in our own homes, and leave the funds that otherwise would be needed to run to those who have been provided with so - called saving food evaluations in nursing homes, thus working as a support and assistance to live longer in their homes. Mr. President. At present, the Independence Party celebrates a 90 - year anniversary. The party of Independence class took up a unique journey in the past winter, where we visited more than 50 settlements. There we had meetings with thousands of people at meetings and visits to companies and institutions. During the tour, the primacy of political activity was reminded to meet women and men in the field ministry. We showed and proved that at any given time, we have business with the people in the country and with the people. This proved an excellent attendance and a fine welcome. While traveling, we take time and upbuilding conversations from a journey, and most of all, we take the people's optimism before the coming days. I'd like to use this opportunity here to thank you for your welcome. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-29-113.u4	Mr. President. Good citizens of the country. ▪ We - the generation that lives and walks on earth - are the last generation that can cope with the threat we face. And you politicians can do what needs to be done. - That's what Benedikt Erlingsson said, an actor and director, when he took over the Council of Northern England for the film Woman goes to war. At the same time, he encouraged politicians around the world to be more courageous and give a vote like this: 'Choose me, and I will see to it that you get less of everything; less stuff, less meat, less travel.' To get voters to take the bait, politicians should promise more culture and entertainment, a healthier lifestyle, and a longer life, more along with society, poetry, and love, music, and literature. This admonition from Benedikt is excellent. Brave politicians must lay the groundwork for economic growth without carbon, supporting environmental work as a support for the welfare of the earth because global warming is a threat that becomes more and more tangible and aggressive. In the north, the effects are three times greater than in other places, and the result is disastrous. There is no national question about natural disasters, and no nation can declare neutrality in the war against them. The world's greatest problems will be solved only by increasing international cooperation, whether in battle against poverty, inequities, or incompension. It takes courageous politicians to lead radically. On the other hand, the powerless climate program in Iceland is getting a complete drop score. Hence, the Conspiracy proposed a pact order where the government is commissioned to create a green community covenant that will take over all the stings of national life. The first find of the treaty is to be sustainable and Iceland will be a green country with a green economy. Young people demand that we politicians lead a change that works. Theirs is the future, but only if we stand on our feet against the interests and interests of the moment and take great green steps for our children. It is not just a disaster that threatens the future of children in Iceland. New statistics from Studies & analyses indicate that more than 13,000 children are exposed to physical or sexual violence prior to their 18th birthday, some of which are daily. The consequences of child abuse are multiplied by adults. Violence against children is usually kept secret, and governments are involved in the hide-and-seek, since adequate monitoring is not available. It is not enough to replace the title of the cabinet minister with a child - care minister, as was done here during the days. Real action is needed. One of the priorities of the United Nations at this assembly was a plan of action for the next four years to strengthen the position of children in Iceland. These include acts to protect young ones from neglect, domestic violence, and sexual abuse. The General agreed to refer the proposal to the government for further implementation. The measures taken are complete, with regard to child protection, police and health care, active cooperation between them, and better ways of reporting suspicions of child abuse. Sadly, lack of clear guidance, efficient organization, and overall policy in the mental health of children has resulted in many of these without clear counsel and incompetent complications. Too many children wait for diagnosis and help. More are left waiting. In addition to government promises of certain actions in the so - called biographies agreements, that word is far too important to conclude. Most promises are unattracted, but the message to the elderly and the desperate is clear. They'll wait till New Year's Eve for more money. Among them are the poorest people in Iceland who need to be content with more than $200,000. per month. I remind you that all other Norwegian countries do more than the Iceland government to increase the equation. The United States has suggested that pensions increase to the rhythm of minimum wage and that governments reduce the level of income loss. During these last days and nights, many members of the council await a hearing that has shown very clearly the need for a resource directive, which most of the people have long called for. Among other matters to be held, the United Nations issue on legalizing the United Nations agreement on the rights of disabled people. We will not go to summer vacation without the justice for the disabled Icelanders. We are still awaiting the last days of the Council for a new government financial policy and a changed budget for the state of government that is responding to worse economic forecasts, contracts for tourism, and hairy failures. It is not at the council that the secretary of finance did not introduce new policy but, rather, the problem of the government, which made the government a part of which to accept completely unrealistic financial policy over a year ago. They were severely criticized by the union, but the government did not listen to the warnings. Let it be, however, that governments do not follow our advice made by peers. They also ignored the criticism of a financial body that made it clear to them that by policy, the government was tailoring to the government and that they would have to cut down expenses or raise taxes. A government that is unable to agree on cuts and revenues will resort to a new policy and will also violate official financial laws. Unrespecting policy in terms of government matters will always take place on the public at the expense of politicians, who are unable to look beyond the terms of the election, but whose policies are not water - keeping and inaccessible within months of its approval. The prime minister recently called in a foreign publication for the united development of progressive European movements and left classes, forming a multinational organization for radical solutions during climate change and economic inequities. I agree with the Minister, but the words have a hollow ring when they come from a statesman who says one thing abroad but who does things on his own ground, who leads the government of the old power and conservatives and supports the financial and economic ministers of the Independence Party, a government that doesn't want reasonable resource expenditures, nor has rich people paying their fair share of well-being, the government of promotion and injustice. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-29-113.u5	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. Many people, when formed a one - and - a - half - year government, had come to realize the unusualness of the cooperation between these three categories. More and more, however, one and a half years after the government began its operation, the result is widespread solidarity. At times, it may be necessary to sit over the matter, but the conclusion is usually more broad and solid. On a kitchen day a year ago, I talked about fresh winds in the labor movement and the importance of government and labor cooperation. This spring we saw the result of the cooperation when a lifetime contract was signed on April 3 after a very tight negotiation. While the workforce was signed under agreements that emphasized those who were in favor of their feet in the community, the Government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, presented 45 measures to support them. These include the prolongation of birthworm for 12 months, which is not only a replacement for a child but also a vital equality issue. This is not the first time asked to extend the birthmark, but now it will stand. The equal share of parents in holiday vacations should also help to improve the status of parents when they return to the job market after children. It was also a special pleasure that the parties agreed to highlight increases to the lowest paying of the contracts. To meet that group, changes in the tax system were also presented with a new low - income tax level as well as changes in the child - welfare system that best treat them. In recent years, young people have been left on the move, and they do not need to reenact the housing problem that has particularly affected young people and single parents. It is important that housing costs do not eat up much of the provisions made by people, endowments should be taken, and bills should be paid at the start of each month - they should not be privileged. Hence, increased housing support is of particular importance. These include share loans, a new type of housing bar for the low income, a clearer policy on rent protection, a set of stateposts for apartments, and the first purchase of resources for those who have not owned an apartment for five years. In addition, a social structure system with strains for building up up as much as 1,800 apartments, in addition to the current structure, may be reimbursed. All of this will help people to have a real choice as to whether they want to have a home or living in a secure rented home. My fellow Americans. When that government started over a year and a half, there were uncertainty signs. Tension in the nation's industry was more rapid than expected, uncertainty was in the labour market, and then it proved to be what many had predicted for a long time, that one of our biggest sectors, our tourism, is now facing contractions. This has resulted in a decrease in growth, and this year's recent outlook on Iceland's Habitat was predicted to decrease the economy. Surely, then, we must respond. But in connection with the government plan, I've always talked about the need to be flexible in plans. If they don't work out what plans are based on, we have to adapt our plans. Happily, this government has left a considerable amount of space in the survival of a government fund to cope with such tragedies. Iceland works well, and no one has to fear that we will not be able to cope with short - term traumas, such as the failure of a airline or a failed hairy population. For the first time in decades, Iceland has more possessions abroad than they owe, and the late bank has responded to the cooling of the economy by providing oxygen into the system, including the U.S.A. by reducing the rate of growth by one percent during the last week. It returns to the lower load of payment, greater efficiency in investment, etc. This time Iceland is ready to cool off, and the population has increased national savings, debt has been paid down, and a reasonable bargain has been made. So I am confident that we will succeed. My fellow Americans. I had allowed myself to look forward to standing here and reviewing a lot of good things that will be good for Icelanders, e.g. Health policy to the year 2030, which will be a basic tool for improving health care and holding it in this country. For the council, there is also a contingency proposal for a plan against violence and its consequences - long - term matters, for over the past few years have shown us that society, and in fact, the whole world, has fallen on guard in the fight against violence. The government groups agreed during the days of the Department of Social Affairs for the management of employment and special supplementation for the forward. In human language, this means the first step in removing a dollar from one's francs. Then there are fine members of Congress, such as the legally binding of the UN Convention on the rights of disabled persons and the bill on child rights as partners when a parent experiences serious health problems or falls away. However, it is uncertain whether and when these matters will take place here because one group has taken to speak for more than two weeks between what he is trying to convince a council and a nation that the band is not going to do. Meanwhile, we wait for the 54 members of the General Assembly to be able to handle these good and needed matters for discussion and payment. The 149th Council has been active and productive, and it is now time to reap. That's how the General, our council, works in a democratic society. It is unacceptable that a member of Congress will take the position of keeping the legislature and thus upset the democracy. This should not be tolerated. President. The greater part of the Council wants to complete a 149th Congress on bail as expected by the law. Yet, on this bright day, there is every reason for optimism. The society deserves to be brought forward, for the people of the land, and for the future. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-29-113.u6	President. Dearest nation. We're at a crossroads. We are faced with a choice. The recent years, years, and decades have seen dramatic changes in society. Our communication habits have changed, and the Internet has repeatedly linked us to one another. Our access to information is more than ever before. Governments are finding it harder to control their community talk. Old comics are about breaking up permanently with the political parties they belonged to, and the transparent government government is considered desirable. In spite of this, trust in politics has not increased but has not diminished. Is it possible that transparency will undermine trust in politics, or has it simply removed from the profound long - standing problems that governments refuse to face? Trust in democratic institutions is minimal, especially for the General. During the past few months, scandals and offenses have occurred at the General Assembly one after the other, the car payment, the Cathedral case, the inappropriate behavior of members of Congress, and the inappropriate political intervening of protocols. Last fall, the Icelanders joined in demanding the resignations of members of Congress who were full of pimpry and bragged about corrupt plans. But many months later, nothing has happened, just because the woman who informed about the conversation has been declared guilty of personal protection after the hard efforts of these senators to persuade her and her personality. Similarly, the senator who explained the importance of starting a study in the driving court has been decided against the ethical principles simply for pointing out the prerequisite for investigating the case. The emphasis is obvious. The appearance of the Generals is to be fixed rather than fixing the Council. The fight is to defend the power and convince everyone that it involves dignified stability. But this approach will not work because the cap has been removed. This is not a constant situation, and the public knows it. That other rules apply to the ruler of society than to the public in this country is unacceptable and anything we have to eliminate. Continued bail and irresponsibility undermine the respect of the General rather than increase it. Since there is no tradition under which members of Congress are able to sit in spite of the public's clear desire for resignation and, despite obvious reasons, to do so. President. The reason for the lack of trust in the Generals is that the political class has shown that it cannot be trusted to rule. She cannot be trusted to put the interests of the nation above her own. Politicians have repeatedly shown how ready they are to praise all beauty in order to have power, but then they trust in the forgetfulness of the public rather than in keeping their promises. The representatives of every group in the General Assembly praised it, for example. in the contingency of the election to dissuade a cent in return to the decrease of disability, but when an opportunity was made to issue its matter of well - being at the end of the last year, the matter was put to sleep on the committee of the greater body of members, where it is still firmly established. The biggest step in restoring trust in the Generalis is likely to fulfill the greatest broken promise. A national agreement was held in 2012 to accept a new constitution based on legal legislation. Two thirds of voters, overwhelmingly more, declared that they should. Well, about seven years later, the new constitution is still in the government drawer. It was more important to form this complex government from left to right than to fulfill the promise of a new constitution to the nation. It was more important to lead the Independence Party back to power despite all the many corruption issues he has come to in recent years and despite his opposition to his new constitution and action against it. This was more important than keeping the promise of a new constitution to the nation. Lack of action to increase trust carries an enormous risk. Much distrust for political, political, and democratic institutions can be a prelude to the division of democracies for political, national, and national political barriers. I'm worried about this development. I'm really worried about her. I'm particularly concerned about how we react to this trend, since our tendency has been to go directly against these forces by restricting our freedom of expression, trying to silence a conversation that we do not approve. The fact is, though, that silence rarely reaches its goal but nourishes the voices that are supposed to be silenced. President. Our role is to listen to the voices of the public, to pay attention to their concerns, to promote informed discussion, and to work out solutions with transparent channels and with the clear introduction of the common people. One of the main roles of the government is to ensure soil or this sure foundation that enables us to develop a community based on trust and cooperation. We are faced with huge and complex tasks that require that we resolve them together; climate change, technological change, increasing inequities, poverty, health problems, depression, violence, purposelessness, and a host of complex topics that we cannot afford to respond in an acceptable way if we make up for the community's games and conventions, we are completely unable to perform that role in health and in the interests of the public, especially if we ignore the rules that the nation put upon us with a new constitution. Dearest nation. You are the director, and it's our job to perform your own will we make our basic community contract. It is my hope that we will prosper in carrying out the will as soon as possible so that all of us will have better guidelines, as a nation, to solve the challenges of the future. We view it as our project to perform with transparency and honesty, and it will continue until our objective is reached. - Happy summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-29-113.u7	V.E.G. President. My fellow Americans. Our work at the General Assembly is numerous, and it is important that we give them altruism, large and small. Most important, our decisions have given us a positive prospect for the future for all the people of the country, employment, and home, that we work together to shape equal opportunities for all to use their power, technology, and intelligence for the advancement and progress of land and nation. A dynamic, competitive, professional life is our competition, for it is always compatible and is at the same time essential to quality of life and improved biodiversity. Involved and progressive employment life across the country, rational and sustainable use of resources, the resulting valuable creations, and the potential for fostering those in need, living here, all good, childbearing society, and promoting well - being in all areas - that is because the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter stresses a vigorous economy, in order to rely on future employment, material growth, and well - being, building a foundation for social stability and the quality of life for future generations. This policy rhymes well with the direction and emphasis of the forward party. Prescientity, cooperation, and solidarity are features of the government's work. It is a joy and indeed a privilege to have the opportunity to support this government and to cooperate with a united group of ministers and members of Congress on progress. Good citizens of the country. The trust in financial matters is one of the economic foundations and the drive to advance. In a dating legal structure on public finances, the government's budget is actually a permanent subject and perhaps not always the case, but still the work, and the budget of the next year is the first part of the program that we deal with each assembly. A responsible application on a solid basis identifies the budget that we agreed on in December. It reflected increased economic growth in recent years, one of the longest interest periods in economic history, which continue this year to build up social infrastructure at the same time paid of debt, and thus reduce the growth rate of Kingdom funds - money that is truly useful for nationally important projects. Thus, the law of the law builds a more solid foundation than we have been living in for a long time. Hence, it is possible to press on in many areas, make investments, and add to a number of cases that have developed a growing need. I am reporting largely increasing transport contributions and communications with the highest levels of maintenance and newinvestment, health and welfare, education, innovation, research and climate. A respectable president. We would like to say that one of the main leaders of future economic growth and competitiveness is an investment in education, innovation, and research. The productions of innovation and research are greatly improved by 31% in terms of real value over the next five years, and then, as a minister of education and culture, it can be said that the program has been well established by increasing donations and in the form of a number of measures. I'm here giving support to publishing and policy-making for Icelandic languages. Good citizens of the country. Of course, the government's affairs alone are not the dominant or economic situation of the nation's population. Home and company have changed their status and have shown conferences, increased savings, and reduced debt, i.e. hearing and seeing increased understanding of the inevitable context of government economic policy, independent financial policies, and employment markets. A joint broad understanding of these three main areas of economic economy is designed to preserve the economic success achieved, to maintain a high level of employment, and to increase the level of buying with valuables and productions. The labour market, the union of industry, and the labor movement met this challenge in a decisive way, and the landmark agreements, the biographies. This happened with the necessary access and support of the government. The government has been planning a long-term active conversation in the process of making contracts in its own plans. The agreements lay an additional basis for economic and social stability. This involves increasing equations where the emphasis is on income - bearing groups and family members with tax reforms and lower taxes, higher child reforms, longer maternity stores, and higher holiday pay. The combined capacity for making a provision for a family of four is increased by 411,000. every year. Then there are a number of solutions on the area of housing: Business to first purchase, to increase the supply of social housing, to use special savings and designated special property - the Swiss way it has been called - a review of the index and the insurance that we candidates will welcome in particular and have fought for a long time, an unscrupulous loan will be an option for all. Good citizens of the country. I don't have time to list all the issues on the program of this council, provided as unsupervised, or the projects on the table of the Ministers, end the legal domains of the State budget 34, and the seminaries over 100. It is available in the final meters of the council to provide a national budget of 2020,2024. The newest economic conversions appear in Haguems and changing terms, in a quick down cycle due to contracting in tourism and phlegm failure. In current government policies, the aim of other economic leaders is to achieve the emissions of 1% of GDP, less than 30 billion. The biographies are extremely important inputs and provide scope for the reduction of the Federal Bank, which at the same time provides evidence of increased economic strength, credibility of the bank, and independent policy. It has long been called after the same direction as the financial policy and economic policy. A respectable president. In such a situation, we ask, What is the most practical thing to do for a country? I find the answer obvious: responsible policy and high position of state funds make it possible for us to continue social development, to add to reasonable investments, and to promote sustainable economic growth for the good of the entire population. - Good people, happy summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-29-113.u8	Mr. President. My fellow Americans. We are living in a time of change faster than a few generations before us, a change that at the same time brings great opportunities than the greatest challenges. Many changes also call for great conflict, conflict between conservativeness and forwardness, but the changes will not be the case with the children. John F. Kennedy once said, with president's permission: ▪ Elegant is the law of life. Those who look only to the past or to the present will miss the future. The now ruling government in this country is going to try to put the future ahead. In fact, it was founded on stationaryness, founded in defense of the narrow - minded past. Mr. President. Icelandic society has changed over 25 years since the European Economic Convention went into effect. With what our foreign trade has prospered, foreign investments have grown, and the free flow of people at the same time strengthened the Icelandic labour market by increasing participation in foreign workers, and much less have created new opportunities for us Icelanders. There is no doubt that our increased participation in the global economy through the EEA has proved to be a great success. In the next 25 years, however, there will no doubt be even more changes than those we have experienced so far. The environmental threat calls for a complete review of our consumption and occupation and requires a huge increase in our participation in international cooperation against global warming. Technological changes are faster than ever, and these changes will drive industry across the country. The world has been reduced, and this presents a great opportunity for a small, courageous, and well - educated nation. However, it depends on our response to whether we will be able to take advantage of them for our own benefit and a prosperous future or whether we will only become viewers of these great changes with the expected deficiency of living things. Mr. President. You see, the future will never be fled. Growing ethnic hatred throughout the world is a source of great concern, a greater threat to democracy than we have seen in decades, increasing insulationism, dictatorial expressions, and attacks on minority groups in the rise of Fascist in the 1920's. If we fall asleep in danger, we might wake up in a world we do not want to know. The nations of the world have not been able to ensure that the economic benefits of internationalization have yielded fairly to all social groups. Social mobility and growing dissatisfaction with unsettled quality are the root causes of the turmoil we see in politics in many parts of the world. In spite of the high wages in this country, this reality also applies to us Icelanders. The intermediate class has here and in other Western countries are under attack, and the high cost of the Icelandic crown is causing a great mixture of property. You can see that the crown attracts those who, both companies and individuals, are able to move their assets abroad when convenient. Who, then, is at the expense of the crown? Yes, the Icelandic public, but, of course, they are struggling to resist the changes in our currency, which can profit most from our present situation. In this situation the current government has taken a stand. Mr. President. Man - made disasters are a threat to the earth, and governments need the courage to cope with it. The market economy and environmental protection are not contrasts, as is often stated, but they must be used for the protection of the market. The obvious fact is that, as the world's economy is now built, there is a high economic hope for pollution. Our carbon footprint is simply too cheap. Today, those who do not share the cost are the earth, the whole population of the earth. V.E.G. The government speaks extensively in these matters but does little, and unfortunately, the ambitious climate policy of the government is very disappointing. The World Cash Fund recently published a report on essential activities in climate. If Iceland were to follow the results of that report, it would mean that twice the amount of carbon paid here on all transports would be necessary to achieve our commitments in the Paris Convention. I am afraid that the present government is not able to protect the environment in this way. Land use emissions from agriculture are also very high. Clearly, economic incentives to counter measures, such as the recovery of wetlands and forestry, will be greatly increased. In this context, it is important to link more closely the activities in climate support systems. While there may be considerable opportunities to increase much of the Icelandic agriculture but at the same time reduce its levels of carbon. When asked about ambition in these matters at the General Assembly, a minister of agriculture showed himself that there was a lack of opportunities to set ambitious goals. We agree on the need for ambitious goals, but we are burned out of time. We must stop the action and seek a scapegoat. In the United States, there is an abundance of opportunities for a green economy that can support our future well - being. We're supposed to be leading to green energy sources and to promote the technological and cognitive sector. Good citizens of the country. Such a vision, on the other hand, surely points to the situation of the newer creation in this land. There has been a small change in the exporting of technical and cognitive indicators over the past decade, and a very small number of jobs have developed in this field. Instead, economic growth has been driven by tourism. A government that promises innovation in every word has two times the amount of money to support agriculture than for innovation. This reflects her faith in the future careers. The government refuses to face the challenges of international companies in this country because of a fluctuating currency. We no longer have the ability to build our own resources exclusively on resource use. We must build a strong and powerful system of knowledge if we are to create an opportunity for young and educated people here on earth. The crown, on the other hand, regularly relieves corporate management in international competition. As a result, we have seen that young, promising companies are sold from the country or move their activities outside much sooner than we have been used to. After that, education has never been worth as much as it is now. Who, then, is to go forward with innovation and ingenuity that the government wants so much to promote if not young people and the future do? The test of the crown is a fact, Mr. President. We will never create any Icelandic technical and software companies in an acceptable business environment using it as a weapon. Moreover, we will not create the future generations of this country the opportunities they deserve, the practicality of a good education or a competitive standard of living with such a costly currency. We need to look to the future. Green economy and innovation will play a key role there. We owe the future more to Greta Thunberg, who has raised the world to think about the environment through its struggles: 'Whether you like it or not, we owe it to you in the future.' My fellow Americans. You can be confident that we, on the restoration, welcome the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-29-113.u9	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. How pleasant it would be if we could look at all the beautiful words here said to be realized! How nice it would be to be an Icelander, in any class and rank, if we here regularly come up to kiss ourselves by our own actions, we actually showed that we were here to fulfill our words. A group of people were formed to fight poverty in Iceland. I look back, here I stood over a year ago, even optimistically, that something might change, that the good, declared will of the government would be shown in action. The poverty traps here may be set free by the smallest of our brothers and sisters. But that's not the case, Mr. Honorable President. We are now pouring through the paper hatchings of the great violations of the U.S. Insurance Institute. And think, most of those who receive this note through the hatch do not realize why they have more than 200,000 dollars. in monthly extensions, there will be reduced between 25,000 and 3000,000 dollars. In a month, because they owed too much. Isn't there something wrong with a system that can't even make it better than then for those who have to rely on this social security system how to associate with this monster, so that you don't have to face the damages every year and suffer a number of traumas because of that? A respectable president. The people have brought in many matters of Congress, council proposals, and bills, all good things, all of which are in an effort to meet our smallest brothers and sisters. One case is that I would like to mention specifically, a violation of the income of the elderly. The fact is, it doesn't cost anything. Often, the government on the brakes says: There is no time to shovel money from a government fund where we need to maintain now, because we see that the economy has fallen for a while, as we look down on the ground. How, then, can you reason that at least I am not comfortable with you? can meet this small group of people? For this group of people, it is public health to allow people to do their part and to continue working without being restricted. How is it that year after year the kitchen calendar talks and talk about things and optimisms and all so awesome as we know that thousands of our countries who are observing these discussions don't have one word to think, " Why haven't I been allowed to share in this good stuff? ' Why not me? Where is all this prosperity? What have I done to cope with the pain of death? I've been talking about us having laws and rules that might be the least to follow, especially by the government in the country. We have the 2nd case 69th par. Social security legislation, which says that, at the decision on pay development, there should never be less than the price of a consumer product, but it should always be based on the general pay development in the country. Where are the biographies now for those in the social security system? Where are they? Why should we not meet the poorest people in the country and raise them up at the same time that everyone else is raised? Why is it necessary to wait until January 1 each year to comply with the legal obligation of the State to raise, according to page 69. the alimony of those who need to take advantage of the social security system? I don't have the answers. I just can't understand. Everything we're dealing with today, everything we're talking about right now, is human work. If we want changes, and if we are to see changes, they are also human activity. I don't doubt it for one minute that if it was real will, we could all join our hands here, wherever we stand, and completely change this landscape. We don't have to live in a system that is so downtrodden and hard on rock that it doesn't seem like there's any living way to penetrate anything except when you're long dead. It takes decades to change something so carefully that it will be noticed. I'd like to mention some of the cases the people's party has been trying to get involved in the political treatment. As strange as it is, and this is how it works to be in a management position, no matter how good the cause is, there will be days on the committee. Yes, they're sending out a statement. Yes, there are guests, but now you can't do anything more for the matter--and go to sleep, okay? You will never receive any political treatment because the one who puts it in my part is in a position of government. Congress doesn't have anything special on the platform at this high council. Maybe there's something worth changing, isn't there? I want to tell you something, you can't stop here without saying it. Here's a group of heads of all political parties, and we're working on a change of constitution. That's a good thing. I don't care what anybody says and I don't care what group and how you're supposed to speak as a government official -- that's a really good will to get the resource law into a constitution. It's been sent in the cover story. Our people - you, my fellow Americans - can go tell their opinion. You can develop the resource problem with us and really make it work, so it works. I wonder, though, when we speak right now - and I'm going to mention the third energy package that you've probably never heard of before - something remarkable is that the package cannot be salted until the resource directive has entered the constitution that will be expected at the next election. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Why was that impossible? I'm a little young in the field, and maybe I don't know too much about how this politics works, but I know at least that. what I see here and now. I have to admit, I don't understand it at all. I challenge all of you here, why don't you put together your national ills? Why not come together, wherever we stand, and really keep our resources in check and keep them from running with some invitation in Brussels? How about that, Mr. Honorable President? - Happy summer, my fellow Americans.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-29-113.u10	Mr. President. Good Icelanders. The energy package was presented in a way that makes it safe to accept it because the government had dealt with it legally. Government officials have not been able to explain to members of the Parliament or to the nation what these legal warnings are or where they are looking, but they seem to consist mostly of some sympathetic conversation with men in Europe or in the Ministry. Moreover, they have not been able to explain to the nation what the consequences will be if these watchmen fail to resist. Government personnel are instructed to explain the matter and its subject of opinion in an adequate way. They have certainly failed, and it appears that at times they are not fully within their power. Instead of informing the public about the many and complex aspects of this matter, the discussion is directed so that it is done at most at night. The president and the members of the program now strike both their own record and that of others in the length of meeting at the General for the apparent purpose of putting the discussion to sleep by the prominent cooperation of many media. As legal advisers have warned, agreements against Iceland and billions of reform requirements may fall into our arms in the face of damages. The eight warnings made by the Norwegians are not being discussed here despite a lawsuit about their value and are frequent because they expect in the autumn. Furthermore, the government is not in direct contact with this case to discuss the fourth energy package built on 1,000 pages. That package has not been introduced to members of Congress. Meanwhile, the third one is placed here for approval. In order to discuss the matter and its impact on our authority over the nation's most important sources of energy, all information needs to be available. What prevents the case from being postponed and examined for all the facts? What fears are there that the European Commission itself will not be connected to the European energy market for understanding European representatives, the European Economic Area, and will look for permission from the rules in the principle of order that is most certain to pass a constitution? What do men fear, Mr. President? It has been suggested that the approved energy package clears the way to the full EU Member States. It is peculiar that it is the left green role as the head of the Independence Party and the advance to block the path into the European Union. Many of their voters must be amazed at this. The good people of the country. We have experience in a contract violation where we have endeavored to protect the health of Icelandic farms and the common health. After losing this case to the EFTA Court, companies have been convicted of high-priority damages. The members of the government and other legislators have clearly identified the possibility that the same measures as those taken by the British sea cables could appeal. In such cases, however, the sum would be different and higher. Good listeners. Experts have noted that the reduction of the import restrictions of livestock products, such as cryoprecipitation, will translate into an increased risk for human and animal health in many areas. The bacteria that are resistant to nearly all the antibiotics available may be transmitted by food to humans. They are now being found more frequently in farms and food in countries where high levels of antibiotics are used in agriculture, such as in many European countries. Source to import suggests an increase in the import of meat containing these multi-drug resistant bacteria. Icelandic livestock stocks have lived in isolation for nearly 1,200 years and have never been exposed to the spreads of many of the habitats endemic in Europe and around the world. If infection spreads, it is likely to cause great damage, with the consequences that no one can predict. Do we want to take that chance? The community has decided that there is no doubt in the ocean that the import will cause much damage to the European agriculture sector and agrienvironmental planning will do enough. The Minister's plan must be improved, timed and financed before the case is resolved. My dear Icelanders. There was a debate at the General Assembly. A fall of the complex problems that many boys and young men seem to have in the community. The problem is that they seem to be less comfortable in school, and their way through education is more challenging than those of girls. They rather drop out of school and go to college, and they seem to be growing. Immorality, depression, drug abuse, accident rates, crime, and computer addiction among boys and young men are what many families personally experience. This challenge to many boys and young men today requires much more than that. Solutions and actions must be sought, for this is a serious matter that is of great importance to us. I call for practical action on the part of the government in this case. We can't just sit back and watch this problem grow. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-29-113.u11	Mr. President. My fellow Americans. Words matter. The way we choose them and the way we use them matters. We can rejoice and lift, but we too can hurt and break down in one word. We can fool, and we can tell the truth. We should try to understand and speak about matters that are of utmost importance. Sometimes I put myself in the position of those who listen to us here in this hall talking about national production, payment, cod-ordinates, initial equations, system risk, the payment of state funds by Part A, Part B and Part C, and other carp about system-based factors. Although all of this is necessary, I sometimes wonder how people who are not inside what at times seems to be more like a bubble than a legislature to evaluate whether and how our work here and the long speeches are important to the public and to the business of the country. I believe that in this room, all of us have a common goal of improving everyone's life even though we don't always agree on roads. We want to consider matters that will improve our lives in the immediate future, matters that will make all freeer, happier, and progressive so that everyone will feel in his own eyes that it is only better to exist today than yesterday, and that tomorrow may be even better. Naturally, there are doubts, questions, and criticisms about the ways we choose to go. In a healthy environment, there should be criticism, calmness, and factual debate. But history teaches us that it is in the environment of doubt that lesser prophets see a game and change doubts in fear. They know that when people are afraid, it is easier to step on the brakes and make unwise decisions. When it comes to fear, a verbal debate is introduced into the gap, and the instinct is accepted. And instinct tells us that change is dangerous. There will always be politicians who want to use their fears, thus creating an imaginary enemy to direct in some way the fears they themselves have created. They believe that if we just pack up our defenses, stick our heads in the sand, and just look up to eat only Icelandic, we'll be fine. The Japs always have simple solutions to the problems they have created themselves, and thus groups and politicians that seem to think that the climax of the political work is to tell lies, slander, and rip mouth sometimes out over others that the shortness of the simplicity of the people's pockets can be fascinating to some. The so - called traditional politics sound as they are tired and tired in comparison, but it stands for us here to speak clearly and to take control, not to succumb to or succumb to the deity of the people. A respectable president. There's been a lot of discussion about the EEA deal in this hall lately. All except those who choose to place their binoculars to the blind of the eye, it can be seen that the agreement has changed completely, increasing both prosperity and freedom, and that those who made it deserve a lot of gratitude for the vision they showed. A lot of people know about Iceland in the EEA, and I don't think those who remember Iceland outside the EEA want to return to that time. However, there are many other factors to be more guided by the molding of our foreign and commercial policy than by this poisonous mixture of evaporation, past sickness, and future fears. My fellow Americans. The world has changed rapidly in recent decades. However, the greatest changes have not necessarily occurred by government decisions. Thus, in his book Yuval Noah Harri, 21 lessons for the 21st century, author Yuval Noah Harari, who noted that in the election no one has approved the Internet. At the same time and increasing business freedom, the whole world has become our neighborhood, and the Icelandic business can sell products, intelligence, and services to every corner of the world, just as Icelandic consumers have the same opportunity to shop and take advantage of international service. Globalization seems scary for some, and we don't always know what's beyond the corner. The future knocks on the door, away from the number of people who want to fight it, and Iceland will continue to change, be freer, better, and more prosperous than it was yesterday. We do not stop evolution, but we have every opportunity to participate in it. The independent party will once again be in charge there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-29-113.u12	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. ▪ From the earth, all days begin in beautiful ways. In these words, Pétur Gunnarsson, a writer, made a silent note of Icelandic literature in his songbook With a New Day. In many cases these opening words have been thought of in recent times, especially when you have been vigilant and have enjoyed the sun and birdsong and the fruits and the sea tides and other wonderful things that the earth gives you and we go out as a lead. Then the men get up, get to work, and go to root and bury. That's the way it can't go any longer. We all see that. We know that we need to learn to adapt fully to life on earth. We need to cultivate new customs and a new view. We almost all know this. While the government has shown efforts in this direction, you feel that it is not going quite far enough and that certain steps are being taken in one direction. You see, we cannot walk both to the left and to the right at a time. We're just going one way or we're gonna stand in place. Either we have a conservative and materialistic right control of the interests of interests or a progressive and liberal left government guided by a public interest. We can't have both. In the climate, we have stopped hearing about the year 2030, as if it were just long ago. That's a long distance from our close to fulfilling our commitments in the Kyoto Protocol of 2013◯2020. We need a more radical and more effective climate plan than the government has established. The restoration of wetlands is fantastic, and forestry is excellent where it is appropriate, but we need to be much more progressive in reducing emissions. We must focus on all human activities at the actual cost of life on earth. We need to make a covenant across the seas and countries. Then the mouse hole's cognition doesn't work, the argument and all the-for-nothing-thinking. It no longer works, but the communities must gather together. In these matters, my fellow Americans, unfortunately, we need to stop thinking just as Icelanders. We need to think as children of the earth. In the United States, we have proposed a synopsis proposal for a green community contract that is to be taken into account all the stings of national life. The Green Cord is a sustainable development, and this refers, not to sustainable development, as a word for plunder, but to a word that describes a real economy through environmental economic management and funding, which take progressive and real steps towards the need for 2.5% of GDP in government and environmental activities, such as the United Nations International Committee. We want the market to be activated and directed by economic motivation and demand, manufacturing processes changed, and consumers being made aware. We want to change the tax system, transport, housing, food production and resource use. We want speed of energy exchange. We want to reduce emissions from contaminated heavy industry, we want to raise carbon costs, and we want to be guided by sustainableity everywhere, by my fellow Americans, that every day of the world begins is beautiful. She spins and rotates, as Pétur Gunnarsson's son describes so beautifully in her poem. We are to use earth's infinite wealth with love and appreciation, not with unconsciousness and freckles.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-29-113.u13	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. It is impossible to be optimistic about the future of the nation when the nation's good economic standing and the ambitious projects and developments that are being carried out and planned. Large - scale funds have been put into public investments that turn into an inside structure all over the country. Health systems are in full progress, and for the council, there is an ambitious health policy until the year 2030. Strong health care in all parts of the country is essential for positive urban development. The rate of growth is increased by the lower patient payment and the reporting rate on the elderly and the micro-organisms. Donations for dentists and disability are a priority for major growths and mental - health services. Health services are being promoted worldwide, increasing the number of nurses, and building new International Hospitals. I doubt that at another time, there was such ambitious health - care structure as the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. The same can be said of an ambitious, road - maintenance program that has also been proposed to increase the amount of money that comes to increased traffic security, new ones, and the maintenance of roads that have soared for so long. It was a time of great rejoicing in the animal wilderness just before, and much joy prevailed among the people in attendance, which well illustrates that good transport is crucial for the development of land and construction, access to education and service, and belief in the future in its own land. The job board has had a number of big cases in its budget for the winter, and this includes a review of the sheep part of the livestock contract, which are under the conditions of the sheep's stables. It aims to strengthen the article and make it easier for farmers to cope with market swings and to promote innovation so that they can build up new habitats while on their soil. Following the detoxification of imported food, much work has been put on top of strengthening the competitiveness of the Icelandic agricultural policy and emphasising large increases in monitoring and demonstrations to ensure food security and purity and to protect our livestock. It's the guide. It also emphasizes the point of combating antibiotics resistant bacteria. Has the government appealed to these matters, but antibiotic - resistant bacteria are believed to be one of the greatest public health problems of our time. In spring, we established a powerful coastal fishing system based on a fixed number of days that increases the safety of sailors and put on increased fishing resources. We also agreed on the fishing costs based on the implementation and taking into account the results of SMEs. All of this is supported by a powerful fishing route and a new creation and a wide variety of preparations that promote the coastal regions. We're going to take out our main bill for mackerel dinner, and we've arranged for the knots to be assured that there will also be potential for a wide variety of forms of hooks and lines as well as for ocean fishing and for the best of equality. One of the big things that are now waiting for you to do, and it's very important that you finish is a fish farm bill. The matter has been done very well outside the council and is endeavoring to meet views in different directions and to be effective because we are going to build up this article in a sustainable manner in which environmental, social, and economic factors are viewed with the most strict requirements for all equipment and monitoring to prevent the risk of genetic mixing with Icelandic salmon or a threat to other environments. Modern laws on this trade are important to the inhabitants of the country and to the country's income, and we believe that we are making good progress and learning from the experience of others. Good citizens of the country. There are ahead numbers of opportunities that are relevant to the inhabitants of the country, whether you look for tourism, innovation, increased education supply, or their increased opportunities for the country's construction of high - speed network throughout the country, all that are very supportive of job development in the scattered settlements. We are optimistic. There is good reason to do so when we are together to do good things, as the lifetime contracts show. I believe it will become more and more apparent that the government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir is uniting forces across the political spectrum, resulting in a stronger structure and a more powerful welfare in the country. So let the creative power flourish. Let us not be misled by horrors and numbers of terrors. - Happy summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-29-113.u14	A respectable president. Sweet Icelanders. A general assembly is a scene of conflict. Unlike organizations working toward a common goal, members of the Parliament do not achieve the same goals, naturally not. If so, it might be just the same. At the scene of conflict, it can be assumed that culture will always be a little more naive, much more inaccessible and conflictable than it would ever be in a healthy company or group. One of the ensuing fish of the scene is excessive conservativeness. For a long time, they get used to the arrangement that is and wants to change it, not because they feel perfect, but because they know how to do it and do not risk losing something new. In this town, conservativeness seems to be not just a special value but, rather, a relatively religious structure. In fact, she's in chapters so much that she's just gonna be funny. Not many years ago, in real life, it didn't really have to be said to argue whether computers were allowed in a Senate hall. [[Low laughter at the Assembly Hall.]] Surprised, good. Some simple ideas to promote the hall only: To enable members of the Parliament to use corneas in their speeches, to assign seats to councils rather than random or to build a new council hall to provide modern information tools in him and members of the Parliament themselves. I'm going to mention these all-out and ordinary ideas to indicate why. Councilmen at the absurdity of their being so much thought - provokingly thought - provoking. On the basis of the comfort of the maintenance culture at the General Assembly, they're actually completely out of the map. These are just simple practitioners that are of virtually no importance to the big picture. Intensification is not reduced when more important changes are proposed, such as separation of the European Commission and legislation, having the Congress vote for prime minister, and having the prime minister bear responsibility for his advisers, the duty of the council to discuss the initiatives, putting the constitution in the legal process itself. In fact, I just have to refer to the bill of a new constitution with a bunch of good, simple, inexpensive, and modest ideas that could improve both the General, our community, and our democracy quite much. These ideas can be reasoned, but they will not even be properly considered by the attractions for the simple reason that they include changes over their heads. A respectable president. The lack of trust in the World Council has long become serious. Senators can blame them for what perspires them, the speech code of the Middle Party, or the dress of Pirata, but that's not the point. Rather, it is how the deep - seated and high - quality conservatives hold back from the development of the Generalist and Democracy itself, this pathological ancient and conventional worship that brings up things that don't matter at the expense of those who do. Speaking of things that don't matter, I didn't mean to discuss the third energy package today, but in the general debate of that matter, this problem is exactly crystal crystalline. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Worried about the third energy package is, in effect, concerned about the ownership and access rights of resources, the sale of state power, the common partnership with the Constitution and the national right to intervene in a case approved by the General Assembly. These are factors that have been in the dough for decades. Is it really hope that the Allied Council will be mistrusted when the third energy package is concerned with the changes to the constitutions established by the Council of the Republic? You see, while Congress works, society is developing very fast. The Internet is a remote meeting with its telephone, with no due notice, and it votes over the Internet in association organizations, it identifies itself through the Internet, shops through the Internet, changes legal homes, and reaches its education certificate in central areas from the authorities. So people use technology to look at what the Council is doing and what it is doing - this. Yes, it is a beautiful church hall, and it would be a beautiful collection, but the tradition of glory that people see in it is not reflected in the workings of the Council. True respect for the Council requires that the Council change to the rhythm of the times to opposition to the conservatives that hold it back. The past was lost, a respectable president. It's a good time today. The little we can say about the future with any certainty it will come, and I suggest that the Allied council welcome her with an open mind, a smile on her face, and a warm heart. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened. - It's a good time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-29-113.u15	A respectable president. The good people of the country. At the end of the last session of a discussion that we expect to return to the kitchen and to the ears of the people of the land, it is normal to look over the subjects of the past few months and for the next projects. There has been considerable coverage of land resources, including ... ofourexploitors. Land use, provision and possession of land, provision and use of limited resources on land, rural planning, use and protection of the central highlands and nature protection, work use of land against climate change, and new global legislation on land and forestry have been implemented. The whole country is a resource, the land itself, the soil and the vegetation that thrives there. A country is used for many things, such as food production and the appeal of tourists, and a country can follow its benefits like hunting, mining, and water rights. It consists of great public interests for the administration and treatment of the land and therefore cannot be agreed with the same rules for buying and selling the land as for any other real estate. The possession of the country must be ensured, restricted by the number of land ownership of the same parties, the clear responsibility and duties of those in the country's rights to be designated, better used by an organization as a land use tool, and the addition of land registration. I have high expectations for work now being worked by the government on reviewing laws and regulations on land and property. Work on vegetation and soil protection, recovery of ecosystems and building plant resources depends on working together with farmers and others responsible for land or living in rural areas. The challenge is to combine as much of the aims of building, protecting, and sustainable use of land, land healing, forestry, and land management. Working together brings far beyond what happens if each person works in his own corner. These include neighbors'protection against natural spheres and sensitive areas. We were so thoroughly reminded of it this spring, when Sahara's dust overflowed the country, that the international community has to put far more emphasis on land healing in the battle against poverty and the climate. But can not all of us agree that social value is inhabited earth wide? Our task here is to ensure all developed opportunities. That's what we do. with a clear view of the structure of transportation, communications, and the distribution systems of electricity. In winter, we are led by the highest authority. Transport and rural Minister Sigurding Ingi Jóhannsson will deliver a transport program that is now developing major transport activities and will be working in telecommunications policy with the aim for Iceland to remain in the front order of reliable and secure communications infrastructure. In a community where services are combined in a small area, groundwork needs to be ensured but also equal to the amount of transport costs within the country, the cost of transporting electricity, the cost of telecommunications, the cost of freight transport to and from the market, since these factors must not be an obstacle to regional competitiveity, since these factors must not be an obstacle to the competitiveness of localisation. An example of solutions to these challenges is one network of electrical energy and the same price to everyone for the distribution of energy and the Scottish way of flying. In the biographer contracts and government support measures, various social goals, which have a positive effect far beyond those who represented at the table of agreements. The results encourage continued development of society and the workforce, such as by shortening the workweek. There are also operations that have a major impact on the well - being of children, such as prolongation of birthworm, changes in child repairs, and measures to make housing easier for young people and low income. The child's well - being is a foundation for a good society and the better it is to create an environment that ensures security, stability, and balance of status from birth, the less the need for individual support is needed. In winter we have regularly received shocking information about the social issues of children, but in Iceland there are some 80,000 children. More than 13,000 are affected by violence, and there are children in Iceland who do not have acceptable material benefits. Supreme Leader. Minister of Social Affairs, Ásmundur Einar Daðason's son, about putting children's issues on the agenda and in the first place, is important. I'm fully humiliated in the political committee of children's affairs, i.e. A review of social support and support for children in Iceland, with emphasis on early intervention and cooperation. At the same time, it is good to know of initiative and leadership. A minister of education, who has already set up an overall policy barrier for students with a different mother tongue, and who have taken a firm stand for the importance of the teacher's work for school reform and thereby on the affairs of children. The good people of the country. All the political projects are cooperation projects that creep all over the community. Our work must unite and encourage all aspects of evolution. We can never allow ourselves to have just one thing on the agenda, and there is never enough to say no, there is always a solution. - Best wishes for a good summer all over the country. Come on, let's go.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-29-113.u16	Mr. President. Good listeners. According to tradition, the word kitchen - day talks suggests that governments will make their doors clean, clean in the kitchen at the end of the council. But it has to be said that the kitchen of the government's left green, independent party and advance looks like a kitchen of people who buy in there the most expensive and finest things they can buy and then eat every day. True, the kitchen offers compromise, but nothing will happen there. And there's nothing wrong with it when people can afford such a life - style. But, unfortunately, government accounting is different. When three groups decide to work together in the spirit of retreating and conservativeness and seasoning cooperation, as well as a slight increase in the rate of money paid by citizens in a dangerous place in a nation's economy, it is not reasonable to expect, but it is a discussion that awaits another era. Here, however, it is worth defending a few words in part of the affairs that are trapped, primarily because of disguises and sometimes not so mysteriously torn between the three governmental parties. When it comes to anything other than defense of special interests, you see little need for solidarity. Our energy package is in the position we know primarily because of the government's failure to complete the case earlier in the winter. There was nothing wrong with them, it was just a lack of solidarity. One of the largest cases of the government in the winter, a five - year transport program, was doomed from the beginning of the work. Thus, differences arose within the parties of government. Transporter announces a new and improved transport plan for the next fall. We're waiting. A minister of agriculture has stood up to a body of government officials who feel that our independence and sovereignty are threatened if fresh foreign meat is brought into the hands of non - Icelandic producers. And one of the major health minister cases, the pregnancy crisis, went through the council in the power of anti - held parties. It is not the norm that leads to these opposition. The head of an independent party voted against the court of the health minister and the head of the forwarding party has expressed clear opposition to the agricultural meat. That is now in the transitional process of the administrations. It must be stated, however, that there is all fairness on this beautiful day, that there is oneness in the government of the left green, independent party, and attention to the health sector, no matter what the cost, and no matter who suffers. When it comes to the affairs of gay people, the prime minister declares that she wants to put Iceland in the world's highest order, and I believe her. However, a minister of justice is innocuous and wants to impose a law order on hatred speech, something that is in every corner of the body is considered a major cause of human rights violations on minorities, including queer people. And finally, Mr. President, there may be some thoughts about the fact that at the start of the left movement, environmental growth in the activities of the General Assembly is as insignificant as it is at hand. I mean, real jobs. There is plenty of beautiful promises of great attendances there, such as anywhere else with that government. The right criticism of government climate policy is well known. We are now heading to the EEA's Headquarters for the evaluation of environmental impact in the second spring and the same is true of the Environment Minister National Network, but there is still hope, at least Some government commanders, so that climate bill can go through. Mr. President. During the period since the start of the reign of Katrín's daughter Jakobsdóttir, little has been offered. It is torn about recipes behind the scenes, but less is made out of cooking. But the question is, Is there any reason to complain about it? And that makes us think about it. - I appreciate your audition. Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-29-113.u17	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. In the past few decades, rising numbers have not turned to those who need it most, i.e. for disability, seniors and low-payers. If it were given correctly, the government's pensions would not be less than 300,000 by taxes, and taxes and savings in pensions would not be from 73% to 100%, and over that which is nothing more than property. Recent laws that are most useful to the more than 500,000 dollars. per month of the pension fund has been valid, i.e. That those with this high pension from the pension fund can apply for half of the government's insurance department and half the pension money from the pension fund. Those of this right have been able to obtain 124,000. a month if they have a husband or a wife, otherwise 155,000. In a month if they live alone, from government insurance agencies at the command of the current government. Those with one dollar too little get nothing. A dollar separates the individual from $14,000 or $15,000. per month or none. One dollar. At that time, micromasks will be about 60,000 k. This is a month from a pension fund for 100% losses which is nothing more than taxes and property collection of the individual's pension funds. Theoretically, a dollar will not be kept by a donor of 60,000 dollars. Their pensions, not one dollar of legalized, estate-registered pension savings. It involves more than one share of women because they have more money than men at the same time than a high - income professional with 1 million. K. Half the time, half the system goes to 155,000 bucks. ... bythe administration of the government. Pensions of Pension Funds with 60,000 dollars. A monthly pension fund does not give him a cent to advance. Rather, the invalid must try to live at $22,000. within a month after taxation and chain function impairment. Meanwhile, the high-payer gets 1 million a month from a pension fund about 95,000 bucks. By the government post taxes, a total of 7 60,000 dollars. within a month after taxes, or 548,000 k. More than the invalid. He needs 95,000 bucks. From the state after taxes? I say no. Good citizens of the country. If this is their righteousness, how is it their injustice? Unfortunately, a large group of sick people, farmers, and older citizens, who have to live in pensions from the state's insurance institution, far below poverty limits, live with little food and no food in the refrigerator from the middle of the month or even before, at risk of a serious lack of nutrition. Older people who have worked all their time and paid taxes cannot even renew their hearing aids and live in silence on government orders, forget the waiting list for drug abuse to take place for months or years. When they finally have the operation, they go to the next waiting list, given the miserable, humiliating name of the efflux problem. Yes, sick people and older citizens are eviction problems. Some 10,000 children live in poverty, of which a large group of them are very poor, and this is ours here at the General for a disgrace. But injustice continues. There will continue to be a financial kick to disability and older people by refusing to be included in so - called biographies. As long as an employee receives 17,000 bucks. From April 1 of this year, the cost of deposit is not paid in the raise of the government's insurance agencies. First, January 1, 2020, the pensioner gets an increase of 3%, perhaps 8,000,9,000. per month, which is half of what should be done, and not again from April 1 as given to employees. All classes have promised that they will eliminate a cent in return, but now that it is also betrayed, it will only be done in part and in stages. The government has had about 30 billion of microbes because of broken promises to eliminate a dollar in return. The remaining 1% is due at the expense and costs of disability. She promised 4 billion. K. This year, with tricks taking away 1.1 billion and then lying like a worm on gold at 2.9 billion dollars. which no one in the government seems to know whether or when comes for payment. But that 2.9 billion francs. Only enough for one fourth of what it takes to cut off the debt that is no more than 100% tax. A group of people were formed to fight poverty. Unfortunately, there are not only poverty in Iceland today, there are too many people who are in a state of national distress and who are to be prevented by any means and now. The people will continue to fight for righteousness, making sure that poor people no longer have to wait for righteousness. A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. I hope all of us, as soon as possible, get to live good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-29-113.u18	Mr. President. Good citizens of the country. There is a set of rules at the National Assembly of Iceland. The president of each session talks on a program and gives no part in the program. The middle class and I haven't asked for a part of the program. We haven't got it yet. However, we have made an offer to make a contribution to the council recently. It hasn't been accepted. Meetings have survived previously unknown lengths of attendance, but we do not complain because it was often needed but now necessary. What has been the result? For the contributions of a Senate resolution on the third energy package, we didn't know that VG, left green, was the leading advocate of the markets of the nation's energy resources. Similarly, we did not know that the left one would contribute to the building of large wind - milled gardens and small monuments in many parts of the country, with the destruction of the natural world. We also did not know that the independent party and the forwarding party would go behind the approval of their platoons on the subject. We didn't know ten days ago that a pack of energy was ready, but we do now. We didn't know ten days ago that a fully funded sea cable was ready, so to speak in our backyard, on the side of a big company that says on his website that the company has a good contact with a minister in all the government groups and that support for the project is increasing transnational. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] We didn't know about the general opinion among the most skilled lawyers that the government's declaration of the third energy package was ruined, but we now know it. We did not know ten days ago that Norway's administrative court would appear there in September. for the induction of the energy package. But all of this we now know after the discussions that have taken place recently and that have deepened our understanding and knowledge of the matter. However, we do not yet know why it was so urgent to go through the council in opposition to the majority of the nation. This, however, is a product of earlier days and nights. Well worth, too, the need to know for all who have listened and observed the matter, some nights and days. Then I also have to thank everyone who has sent us greetings and who is supportive of us. You know who you are. Thank you so much. Would we fight it again, good listeners? Yeah. For the nation's future interest, yes. For the future of our children, yes. For the opinions of the greater part of the nation, far from making decisions? Yes, indeed. A poem by Guðmundur Böðvarsson musclersson entitled Follow - How to Find a Part These two things, with the permission of the President: This is where Grandpa and Grandma used to live. Like my dad and mom. One lifetime and a time of shame each to his own. - sometimes narrow points. But you're supposed to remember all life, this country owns you. If we're having a problem Through the Darkness Grieves at Betrayals such as long-term berries We in the world here, that you do not need to choose: You must never sell it's out of your hand. The government groups promote the worst in each other. The union between VG and Independence class takes various forms. As we have seen, left green is now the leading fighting for the market of energy resources in the country, but the Independence Party has participated in the reduction of the health system and the beating of private business. Also, waiting lists are as never before, and the health minister was surprised. So well, she's connected to the group. There's been a lot of police issues. I have no record of how many times during the past few years police and customs matters have been repeated in special discussions at the council. Each time, reforms have been promised, but there is little wealth. And now it's time, Mr. President, because the situation has become this way, as it has been known, for the police to be unable to handle the situation, and we cannot afford to lose control of the safety of the citizens and the crime-like conditions cannot be achieved here in Iceland. In some ways the government has adopted and accepted the Central Party case, e.g. for social security, although the government has not gone as far as we would like to be; to extend the prowess, which are a good thing; but the government has not accepted our business in the elderly; nor does it mean that businesses do not reduce pension incomes; nor is it a hostage because they do not accept the government's ideals. So they are held in terror, and they do not receive the compensation they should have received when January 1. This was a warning on our part at the time but not on our part. I don't know if I should mention a transport plan. That's so sad. She has been round and round, and she has been pulled out of the transport minister's hands by his colleagues who do not trust him. A contingency program is now called a new one in the fall, on the twoth anniversary of the government. I hope you can see her face then. We're waiting. The missions are screaming all over the country. As we have seen, the safety of road users is largely impaired. According to this, the Central Party looks forward to an ongoing assembly and will remain here to continue fighting for good things, as he has always done, in matters he promises in elections, in contrast with others. [[The president calls.]] - Happy summer, good audience. Have a nice day, always.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-29-113.u19	Mr. President. Good citizens of the country. The economic achievements of our Icelanders in recent years are unscrupulous and far beyond what anyone could dream of when financial disasters swept over the country at the end of 2008. Despite a period of economic growth, we can be optimistic. The state funds state is strong. The homes' financial status has changed completely for the better, as does the same story about the companies. Transient contractions are difficult to cope with, but at the same time, there will be opportunities. We together need to increase the demands of the state's institutions and government companies on economics, efficient and good services, to improve the use of collective funds. A reduction in income taxation is reasonable and allows increased oxygen to enter the economy. The same is true of reducing taxes on companies. The financial slang system is to be used for the State to engage in lucrative investments and finance even. by converting possessions into social infrastructure and establishing the basis for a new economic growth period. I've put it this way: to convert money trapped in banks, air stations, many real estates and land, and in competitive business to other assets we consider more important to society. We are to unite in solving this money and turning it into barriers, bridges, tunnels, harbors, international airports, clinics, and schools. Our standard of living depends not only on what is left in the pay layer when we have already paid our taxes and our expenses but also on how our collective resources and assets are handled, how we manage all government administrations, how practical and the good service is. This is true of all government affairs and especially of health care. We're all health insurance. We are to enjoy necessary health care, regardless of the economy or the residence, and we are to have the right of health care - all of us - in the preservation. Building and organization should take into account the rights and needs of the individual rather than the needs of the system. Health policies that cannot be built and used by private partners, support the cooperation between public business and private management, certainly need a review. Once we realize that many projects are unsolved, it is also necessary to maintain good conduct and how much we have shared in recent years and decades. Iceland pays the second largest average wage in the state of OECD. A minimum wage in Iceland is the third highest in the countries of OECD. During the past few years, the growth of commercial power has been the greatest in Iceland of all the North countries. The sexual equality of the sex species is no longer more than in Iceland and Iceland is leading to that. In the past five years, inflation has not generally gone above 3%, and growth is at a minimum in history. Iceland is exemplary as an economy in the assessment of the World Economic Council on a scale that measures not only economic growth but a variety of social factors and how countries are able to provide as many as possible economic benefits and progress and ensure an even between generations. Iceland's in second place, behind Norway. For six consecutive years, commerce has been a positive and clean foreign position for the first time in decades. In spite of everything else considered to be the best in the world, the Icelandic health system is the best. Iceland is the most secure and peaceful country in the world according to international indicator. These are just a few of the successes and the success of our team. We can be even more successful, and we face challenges. There are some things we haven't been able to do and finish, and they're waiting for us here for reasons we all know. Some of these projects we independents want to do, and they are waiting for payment, such as the reduction of the genetic tax, removal of the clock tax from apartments, etc. [[The president calls.]] These are assignments waiting for us, and hopefully we'll get to them later. Thank you. - Good times and a happy summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-29-113.u20	Mr. President. Good citizens of the country. By permission of the President, I present to you one of the poems of Óskar Óskarsson, one of our very best poets, about when the pope of Rome arrived in Reykjavík: ▪ When the pope of Rome arrived in Reykjavík, the city's inhabitants offered to kiss his feet after an old Catholic custom. Several queues were formed on the Landakottos, where the pope sat on a ceremony chair in his white silk gland and the red shoe. When it came to a little girl who lived on Sólvella, whose great - grandfather was once known as a shark president, she did little for herself and bit on the large toe of the pope. Since then, the pope of Rome has not been to Reykjavík. Mr. President. Why this poem? Yes, because I saw the highest. In addition to other European financial advisers, the Roman pope discussed climate issues. To this day, it is important that we be noted in our dealings with other nations. We want to be respected, taken seriously, considered to be an independent and sovereign nation. We carry rich national pride and seldom seem more proud than when we are noticed in a foreign country. Then we will rejoice and stand together in joy and happiness, more pride than ever. In order to be taken seriously, however, we need to examine how we treat others, how we view those whom we negotiate, and how we cooperate with them. Can we expect respect if we are unable to show the same thing to others? Much has been said about the recent sovereignty and the threat of terror. But what is this sovereignty? The concept comes from national rights and consists of the outside sovereignty just as it has the right to accept international commitments. That's what we've been doing for decades, ever since Iceland became a sovereign. We have committed ourselves to national rights as a voluntary and voluntary sovereign state in order to submit to various rules. We did so in 1953 when we became members of the European Convention on Human Rights. On the contrary, we did not give up sovereignty. On the contrary, we showed the world around us that we were a sovereign nation, who considered their interests to be better paid off among other nations in cooperation with increasing human rights. It is good to remember Jón the son of Kristinsson, who led to the separation of tribunal and judicious authority, the case of Þorgeirson son who strengthened the freedom of expression, the matters that opened the government's eyes to the importance of an interjuggation, as well as the number of other matters that have given its citizens the right to this land. The same can be said of the EEA community, which, without doubt, has greatly increased the prosperity here and the long time it is time to let the nation seriously evaluate what is involved in cooperating with other European countries. But when we're in international cooperation, we simply can't afford to respect the source of our data when it's convenient for us. What is the value of such cooperation if the colleagues begin to slander a person as soon as he turns around? What kind of messages are there to the general public that we meet at meetings all over the world, visits from foreign models, invite them to meet us here on land, but when it comes to the commitments of the Icelandic state in a foreign country that has become a source of rottenness and zeal for how miserable all this is, how bad it has been, how no profit. What credibility is involved in such cooperation, and what self - respect do we have? If we are not on our side, why attend international cooperation? Is it an example of a sovereign state that is willing and willing to cooperate? A deal should be held, that it is not divided. If you do not continue to cooperate, the way is not by breaking covenants and disregarding treaties. Instead, governments have to break off cooperation in order to maintain the respect of a country, both at home, as well as in internationally, to cooperate with this cooperation and to have a full share. We need not fear if we have a full share in the cooperation. Good citizens of the country. We don't fear in the United States. We are willing to share fully in the cooperation that we already have and the possible future cooperation with other sovereign nations. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-29-113.u21	A respectable president. Good listeners. What does the future look like? They hardly get bigger or more important, the questions we can ask ourselves, and the last step has been increasing. The climate problem seemed to be far away from the future. It's, for example. Unbelievably short since then, the debate on climate was said to be in chapters, and not very calm in this chair here, and those who spoke for ambitious action were also said to fall into the pit of painting the devil on the wall and becoming world prophets. It was not in an ancient form, in 2005. Imagine how much better the world would be today if they had been listened to politicians who saw the future longer than the ideal period ending rather than accusing them of taking the Icelanders back to the Tophphras. Happily, discussions about climate have made great changes in recent years. In fact, climate problems are not only a problem for the future but also a problem for today. And because they did not listen enough to those who wanted to take action much sooner when needed, the world is heading for a global catastrophe by man. President. I don't think it's often said in here how much young people are playing today. In recent years, we have seen a number of young people move up to one occasion to arouse the community on a matter that is urgent. The latest wave, possibly the most powerful, is the climate strike. All over the world, young people come out to fight for the future, ending in climates all the major struggles of the righteous society we want to build, whether it is health, equal, equal, or peace. The fight against poverty is nothing without climate. This is the future of young people who refuse to let us as older ones steal from them. Some say that the best way to predict the future is to create it yourself. That's exactly what the young people are doing on a climate strike. They protest the inactivity of the government. That description may be too universal or systematic to be handled properly. I just want to put it this way: The climate strike is about my inactivity. It focuses on the inactivity of all of us who are sitting here. It targets all elected representatives at all conventions and in all the governments of the world because the fact is that despite many positive steps in recent years, there has been still not enough effort to reverse climate change. On Friday, I was once more able to listen in a Eastern strike. There one speaker, Gunnhildur Fríða Hallgrímsdóttir, asked us to close our eyes and imagine that the year was 2050 and that mankind had conquered the battle against climate change. When asked a school student in this vision of Gunnhildur and received a simple answer: ▪ By working as one, as mankind and not the nations, by agreeing that we want to have a future on this earth. True, it was very difficult, but it also made many things. But was it worth it? It sure is. Is that not exactly how we want the future to look? Then we will have to live up to the responsibility entrusted to us as elected representatives. We need to take action. You can see that the public's losing meat, lot of garbage, or if we who care for the power do not do what we can to help them. The requirement must be that we side with group members because class groups are not important in the fight for the future. We need to do this vision that Gunnhildur described as a reality. We need to offer politics for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-29-113.u22	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. I'd like to use this opportunity to thank them for the young ones who have been up at the climatic strikes on Eastfield last Friday. They have shown me that despite a dark vision in climate matters, there is hope, and the reality can be different if we take action. By permission of the President, I'm going to quote what they have to say on the subject: ▪ Our actions show that we are concerned about our future, our children, and future generations. Let us demand drastic and ambitious action against the climate, since there is an emergency due to the climate crisis here. We are running out of time, and we need action right now. I believe the government and we who sit here at the council need to respond more clearly to this plea. We seem to be afraid to face the problem and our own fears. Yet, young people have shown that we need and are forced to face this fear. We've closed our eyes all too long, and as Greta Thunberg has so boldly pointed out, with the permission of a president: ▪ Our house is about to collapse, and our leaders need to respond accordingly, for at present they are not doing so. The climate situation should not surprise anyone. The world's governments and private companies had the opportunity to act right in the 20th century. During the 1970's and 1980's, most of the world became aware of what was coming. No drastic action was taken then. Why? Why this indifference toward the future generations and lifeliness of the earth? The short answer is that the special interests of the few were put ahead of the public interest, the interests of big companies, and especially those profiting from looking for and selling fossil fuels. Tremendous funds have been spent on the failure of the vocabulary, making people doubt that there is a real threat to disaster, so big business has been allowed to continue to make more money unconcerned while the public and the government are getting convinced whether there is a threat or not. The climate is self-destructive to us humans. I'm afraid we've had too much time to find fault. To prevent further climate disaster, however, we need to stop pointing one another to and accepting responsibility. But I think we're just getting a little tired of cleaning plastics for recycling when we see that the government and the private firms hold back from shouldering responsibility. The time has come for political people who have stood here for the indiscriminate industrial structure to face the irreversible environmental damage such industry has caused here in Iceland and elsewhere in the world. Iceland can no longer be in charge of a whitewash-infested industry. The climate crisis is a global problem that is relevant to all mankind. The government has certainly published a plan of action to address the climate problem, but it has not received sufficient funding or analysis of how to implement the programme. Sadly, we have come to the point where beautiful words, unbounded covenants, and empty promises will not prevent the coming climate disaster. We don't need any more signatures on paper. We don't need any more hands with smiling politicians. We need action, and we need to realize that the climate problem is a problem that we cannot talk or smile at. Whether the government will make a formal decision to declare it or not is a medical emergency. Of course, it is difficult for a government to declare a crisis and to be at risk of alarm and thus lose a vote in the next election. But if there is an election campaign for which the government groups are concerned, it is good to note that the youths that gather in the Eastfield will have many rights to vote in the next election, and the climate threat is not going anywhere unless action is taken. Why should they be interested in keeping commercial wheels going or in increasing the economic growth of society if the future for society and the world is truly in danger? Climate tragedy is not a fashion phenomenon that governments can continue to ignore. Finally, I'm going to agree with the President Greta Thunberg's words: It is not too late to react. It takes long - term vision, it takes courage, and it takes great determination to act now and build foundations when we may not know all the details about how to build the roof. In other words, we need a court case. Please, wake up and make the necessary changes. Finally, I suggest that the fathers'empire be laid down. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-29-113.u23	A respectable president. Good Icelanders. There are many things to take into account when considering the work of the present assembly. Many good things have come through. Some are still in the process, and others are waiting for the complete payment. Iceland's government is in the second winter and has achieved a good partnership, and it has proved that with good cooperation and determination, it is possible to achieve results that will bring good things to the future. A respectable president. I'm going to stick around for a special time at community and employment. First, there is a bill to legalize changes in fish farming laws. A work committee who has had that work done has worked hard to cover changes, ending much at stake. This is a large structure involved, which results in the return of the state's funds of substantial revenues. In order to be at peace with nature, the laws and requirements for cooking have to be well thought - out and clear. The problem should continue for a long time. Health of animals and the environment is the basis for building up the work for sustainable development based on ecology, social and economic support. To this point, new laws are viewed in new ways. However, although this is a bit of stone, the official must carefully monitor the development of the article and ensure that monitoring is done in a delicate manner. Icelanders have always set high goals when it comes to environment and nature. It is not a discount, for it is derived from strong nature and eventually become part of it. A respectable president. Yesterday, a professional health committee from the Committee provided a bill on the import rules for fresh foods. The Agency's Group warned about the winter bill and focused on providing the same quality requirements for international food supply from the European Economic Area, as produced for Icelandic food production, as well as the fact that national health will not be harmful to the import of infected food. The purpose of EU food legislation is to increase food quality and improve consumer status. It is therefore important to have the same requirements for domestic food production as for import. The media has taken their place for the winter, and they have not been afraid to point out the threat we face in the face of multidrug resistant bacteria. They are not taken out of the air, but according to the World Health Organization, antibiotic resistance is one of the greatest threats to human health today. In this respect, our main experts in the field of bacterial and viral infection are saying that we need the special status we have in Iceland. On the basis of Iceland's special status, be on the lead in measures to reduce the spread of antibiotic resistance through a ban on food distribution identified as antibiotic resistant bacteria. The cooperation with the employment committee led to the conclusion that Iceland is responsible for the production of healthful agrienvironmental products. In addition, the government offers ambitious plans for climate. Carbon footprints and other environmental effects of Icelandic vegetables and other crops of gardening are much less than those of the imported. Therefore, in view of food safety, environmental factors and energy efficiency, it is wise to encourage more domestic production. A respectable president. It is our responsibility to provide for the good and to defend what is good in cooperation with the international community. Let us do our part toward a more environmental and healthy life. - Happy summer, my fellow Americans.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-29-113.u24	Mr. President. I like Iceland's fine citizens. There are political changes around the world, and so are those in Iceland. As always, international policies and currents have great influence. This has always been true whether culture, business, or politics are discussed. So Iceland is not an island in this sense. Our responsibility is to have knowledge to cope with these currents and to control them in the strength of our sovereignty for the good of the nation. At the same time, we are to contribute to progress in the world and have a full share in coping with assignments that each country cannot handle alone, nor can we choose to place responsibility on others. Some argue that because Iceland is a free and sovereign state, it does not merely have uncircumcised power and ability to control its own destiny and status in the world but is simply wrong and harmful to participate in international cooperation that includes terms of international rules, Iceland and must not take place in countries with common goals and institutions to follow them. It seems that it is a vow of submission to foreign authority and a responsor of sovereignty. This opinion we're having a completely different view. Our vision is different. We feel lucky for Icelanders to further build trust with other European countries by taking part in the European Union, thus making full use of the sovereignty to improve the nation's interests. In this way, we will best handle the big, joint tasks that are faced and must be solved with even greater cooperation. Customers in EU Member States chose a new European Parliament last weekend, and these elections were for many things of great importance. Participation in the election was prominent in the historical context. The traditional European Parliament system was moving somewhat, and the flea groups became more diverse. Is it similar to what has occurred in most continental conventions, and we are well acquainted with this country. Although the European Union's growth and access to the European Union are somewhat successful, it is still crystal clear that the European Union's proponents are in the vast majority. Since the rise of papalism in many parts of the world is a major concern, it is a source of joy and importance that liberal groups work best in these elections. Freeness is an essential antidote to lands that fester back, people's, and pitfalls. And interestingly, many voters are concerned with the effectiveness of the greens and clearly show that environmental factors are high in the minds of many voters. This is important, and therefore the European Union has set more ambitious goals in climate affairs than any other national alliance. Yet, much more is needed. At the beginning of my speech, I mentioned that international policies and currents have had a major impact in Iceland. Parulism, extremes, nationalism, the denial of science, the politics based on fear, prepared danger, and the enemies of world history have never brought benefits. Nor will it happen now, it will not happen in Iceland, it will not happen in Europe and anywhere else in the world. We must choose and reject these factors. Reverence will be strong against isolationism and all forms of restoration to the truth. Too often, mistaken tolerance and complacency have led to disastrous results. In our restoration, we are convinced that being liberal, which puts greater interests in the public interest, is in the best interests of all of us. - May the sun warm you all this summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-29-113.u25	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. I'm especially glad to have a word with you again. I'd like to think about it now: Would it be so if we stopped taxing poverty? One looks back and thinks: " What is it that I've seen? What has happened this year since I was standing here in the last kitchen days? Yes, we know that our children have a range of degrees of deficiency. We received confirmation of this in the second part of February, when a report of the Department of Traffic informed us of this. Yes, we know that the people of the land are discriminated against by their dwellings when it comes to health care. Some have to fill with brandy to sew them together with needle and thread because there is just no equipment. The next nurse is about an hour away. There I refer to what I spoke about the other day and took place at the Huns Council of the East. A respectable president. What can we do? What can we do to prevent a certain group from being left out? Yes, we can start with priorities. We can, for example. start by refusing to reduce the bank tax by 7 billion and fishing costs by 4.3 billion; this year, this year, it reduces the entrance of the State Fund by 11.3 billion. Yes, we can really see that there are 110 billion years ahead. income from our great resource, the power resource Land activation. We have to hold it. Yes, we're not supposed to say at the same time: "Hey, we're going to try to make it happen by all the living means of putting on tax taxes. First we take credit for the project, and then we're going to work on you to pay off the loan because we're thinking about the safety of the city on the road, a respectable president, and who's thinking about the safety of our addicts, while 39 young people certainly died prematurely during the past year because of the overdose of opioids? Of the 55 deaths known last year, 39 are due to the threat this has brought on our beautiful land. Would this have happened in traffic accidents, what would have activated them, a respectable president? This is where society would be completely out of control. Sadly, there are still 600 people, severely ill addicts and alcoholics, who, in 2019 C.E., wait for adequate treatment to be treated. This is an unacceptable, respectable president. The people are saying, "Here, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. This is unacceptable. Finally, if a politician says to me: " Inga, we're in the same boat, I'll just say, "You better get out of here, because I'm the one who's supposed to calm down." - Happy summer again.
