ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u1	The president considers an agreement that may last longer than the Senate allows.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u2	To answer, Prime Minister, Economic and Economic Ministers, Transport and Regional Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, and Environmental and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u3	President. The government has, from what I hear, approved a synopsis and bills on a so-called third energy package in the European Union. The highest. The prime minister confirms that the case will be measured on Tuesday after a week? It's the highest. Prime Minister is convinced that those who have been represented by the government or minister on this matter will keep? It's the highest. Prime Minister Convinces That the Warnings Keep? If there was a doubt that the alarm would be the highest. Nevertheless, do the prime minister approves of this project and council decree?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u4	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. First he asks me about the program of the council that I'm not in charge of, but I'm told by the President of the Parliament that it will be measured next week. I don't have a precise timing for it, but I can confirm that it exists. That's why it's been distributed at a council if I've heard the facts of the Senate hearing before. What is this about? Yes, it is about the induction of the third energy package by the European Union, and it has been set as a warning, as it were. In regard to the aspects of the directive involved in the linking of electrical energy systems between countries, i.e. The precaution is that while Iceland is not linked to the European Union's electronic energy system, it is not relevant to the regulations of the Regulation that deal with such connections between countries. It's even Confirming the joint declaration of the secretary of state and representatives of the European Commission. This is another way that is suggested in the opinion of Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, a law professor who has written a great report on the subject. It is full of understanding that this third pack of energy is not relevant to this country unless the sea cables are being repaired. Similarly, unless more of the Generals decide to do so, sea cables are under attack. It's at the highest. The circuit, industrial, and innovation secretary will recommend this as well in the contributions of this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u5	President. We have already seen how much effort there is in the EU and especially in the case that will be considered tomorrow and in the import of food. Why should we conclude that there was some possession of the General Assembly that declared it in the council resolution that its will would not be laid as different from the arrival of the General Assembly? V.E.G. The prime minister quotes the report of Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, and seems to have heard that he had suggested that this way be gone. Well, there's another thing. It is specifically stated in the report that this route is a problem without further consideration, since it was not the assignment he was given. On the contrary, it seems clear that if there is a situation to be faced, the matter needs to return to the joint EEA committee. I reiterate the first question: If there were doubts about the warnings that they thought the prime minister was in favor of the case?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u6	Mr. President. The two avenues mentioned in the report by Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, are both tore. Both of them have problems. The first one that was. A candidate refers to it would have been a very acceptable option if the government in 2013-2016 had followed this case because then this case was under consideration by the joint EEA committee. Then the matter was discussed in the Foreign Affairs Committee. At that time, this issue was discussed on the job board, and no warning was established at that time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u7	Answer the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u8	That would have been desirable. At that time, a senator who was then a key figure to influence the situation would have built his flag. [[Come on, come ……]] [[Up front.]] It's good to come now and worry. I'd like to say that on my part it must be completely clear--and I believe that way to the highest. The minister of state suggests that the Icelanders continue to have custody of their energy resources, whether the cables are here or not, that there will continue to be a clear explanation of the government's authority. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u9	Mr. President. The government published a weekend ago that she would help a beach totally to get to her house, and it's fine for her. Other than that, the government has not published any further action in the long run in response to WOW arraignment. In spite of this, predicting that some 3,000 people may lose their jobs, which in some respects will result in increased unemployment. In February it. There were some 5,900 persons on unemployment records, and thus they could increase by up to half. Such a blow will hurt Iceland, but apparently every man-child will be hit on Southnes for the most long time. It is hoped that other airlines can deal with tourists who would otherwise have taken WOW, but the airline is usually organized at least one year into the future, and those who have studied these matters know that there is no way to run into air traffic, so there will be failures to which this will have a dramatic impact on one of the international airports of the country, on Southnes, at least the next year. Unemployed records on Southnes were 770 in February, the majority of labor workers, and the servants. This number can be expected to double in the next few days. Will Katrín's Jakobsdóttir's government really let their only response to this be to add unemployment applications and hope that the market will eventually correct this? Since WOW's business problems were all clear last fall, is there really no plan beyond helping people get to home? Finally: is the highest. The prime minister agrees with the highest. A secretary of finance who declared it to Kashlight for a weekend, by permission of a president, that there is no other way than to let the supply and demand control these things?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u10	Mr. President. I wonder what. A senator has missed a discussion on the financial program that was held here last week. The government budget is turning around. about reacting to changing our economic outlook. It's about dealing with slowing down in the economy. That's even. that is why we contribute to an increase in public investment. This is so that the public will take advantage of the economic system and ensure the level of employment. That's even. that's why they're planning construction at the Cheflavour airport, because of that. A senator wants to discuss specifically Southnes, and there are other official projects planned on the Southnes that will truly serve the purpose of ensuring the level of employment. You see, that's the whole point. The economy is very equipped to cope with challenges like this. It doesn't work that way, so I'll tell you what. A senator and the whole of Congress, that the government draws new airlines out of the drawer when one airline goes off. It's not. The government responds by staging economic management so as to be left behind when the economy begins to cool off, in order to use its own instruments and tools to secure the level of employment, to support the well - being of the country, and to direct investments where it is ideal to build up. I want less of it. It is not by chance that we are about to invest more in research, development, and innovation. This is not just because we want to do so. It is part of the government's economic and professional policy to increase the support under the Icelandic economy. That's one of the things we can certainly learn from Iceland's economics. Iceland is a resource-driven economy. It is important to increase support, and it is important to build not just on natural resources but on intelligence. That's why we're going to invest in this. For my Southnes, special and short - term reactions, I had a very good meeting with the Southnes government this morning, which covered the short - term reactions. There are ministers in the toes, Ministers of Social Affairs and Child Affairs, Education and Culture Ministers and Health Ministers, all of whom have already taken special measures for the state of the South.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u11	Mr. President. No, I sure didn't miss a discussion about financial plans here the other day. On the other hand, I ask this because the government tried to talk about her having been prepared for this position just since last year, so I was surprised to hear the latest. A secretary of transportation says that the situation should be covered and considered. So I was surprised to learn that there were no answers about, for example. what would happen to the students who have been working full - time with their studies and who are not entitled to unemployment benefits and who are not entitled to student loans. I would have liked to have found answers to these questions. I would also have liked to see some kind of answer about what went wrong when we know that the main problem in WOWair was a huge debt. Can we find answers to whether the surveillance was lacking, whether it is something that needs to be considered in the future, and what the response will be? What are we going to do to make sure that there are 24 billion in debt and then just a series of filibusters on everyone's head - or that way - or maybe not, or I don't know? I don't fully understand a plan of action that doesn't start until a considerable amount of time after the damage is done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u12	Mr. President. It's not that they're not paying any attention. A boarding room is the government official who observed this situation, and it was very regular throughout the past month. Hv. A senator asks for preparation. I'd like to remind you that last year, there were payments made from the guarantee fund of pay, their peaks, raises, and unemployment benefits. What was the reason for this? Yes, we saw that there could be further traumas coming from the cooling economy. This is very important now, and I now declare a special pleasure with the union that labor movements show their companions by putting aside pay and, instead, demanding a debt of guarantee to cover the gap for people at this month's convention. However, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the government already approved additional funds for the Work Programme to provide additional advice. The Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education has associated themselves with schools in the area and with institutions for the management of the local schools, as well as with the Ministry of Health, since it is also important to be concerned with the short - term welfare of the local community. All the ministry has been standing by.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u13	President. The government has ten months to keep an eye on WOW. Of course, the reality today is one of the possibilities that always existed, were possible. Therefore, it could have been expected that the government would be immediately prepared with a targeted response plan as soon as the bankruptcy could be addressed to the less than 2,000 out of work on WOW directly and indirectly and now living in uncertainty. This is not the case with the government. We, on the board of directors, asked many questions and made suggestions, including the following: for Christmas due to a difficult situation on the Southnes, the health facility, high school, etc. All our suggestions were taken. All the suggestions we in the management position put out of sensitive positions in the South were dropped. Southnes are areas that will weigh more heavily than other areas of the country regarding flying. There was a 6% unemployment rate for WOW, 3% unemployment here in the city of Reykjavík. There are now 80 million, well done, in the labour oce but only 15 million in Southnes when the situation is much more serious. It has to be said, as it is, that the unions were ready for lunch immediately the next day with their answers and with their response plans, but the government did not. Therefore, after having had all this time to assume this possibility, we must ask: What measures have governments taken to speed up such a situation, such as the year 2000. What's going on with WOW's staff, now out of work? We naturally know that losing income is a shock to any home. What decisions and measures have been made by the government to make sure that the debt of responsibility does not take six months, as we know it will always be? What has been done to speed up the process? What messages do people who are studying and working and who are not at the loans? What messages are received by people who are on maternity vacations or are going to maternity school? All of this would have been very obvious and easy to work on and to be clear. [[The president calls.]] I ask: Can the prime minister tell us what will be done on the part of the government as a hand against anything other than flying John and Rose to their home?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u14	Mr. President. First of all, I want to tell you what. A senator said it's a big deal to fly John and Rose back home, even though it's hard. A senator could not feel that way. One thing that lands face in the event of such a crash is a bad reputation if people do not get along well. The Department of Transport directed that response plan, and it's been very successful. Hv. Perhaps a senator would be interested to learn that it is part of what we have been learning about this matter that countries have done a terrible thing about sitting with thousands of beach holes in which a response plan has not worked. This is what I'm going to tell you. Congress members who seem to feel that it is not easy to get people around. It's not. Then I'd like to say, as simply indicated in my answer to the question of what. paritaprevir All of Ævarsdóttir Ævardósdótir's members, that the Ministry of Social Affairs, Health, and Education is prepared for action on this matter. For one thing, it is now working to meet those who have been studying with work and who have landed between systems. V.E.G. The Minister of Education and Culture will have a meeting with them tomorrow on behalf of the case. It's interesting that when I took over the Ministry of Education after a crash. A senator was not expected in the system to go back to studying and to be unemployed. They all fell for benefits if they wanted to go to high school. It came to me to try to fix the gap in the system, and it was done. Thousands who were then out of work completed their studies. Of course, these matters always have to be handled when they come up, and I had to do so at the time, 2009, and there are different situations, both for those who are in maternity and for study. In addition to health matters - and this is one of the points that the Southern government stressed this morning in the fine, well - arranged meeting we had - it is important to ensure increased service because we can expect to be more stressful in this area of about 150 have added to the unemployment record because of this case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u15	A respectable president. I'm not going to belittle getting people home, but the local people were forgotten instead. The plan is not yet in place. When's the plan due? When will it be possible to answer those who are now out of work for how long and how quickly can they be paid through a pay fund of responsibility? We're simply experiencing that the government has again on large and important issues, as in the Bgret, no plan; no plan if it becomes a hard one. What was the plan when the State lost the case because of the Court of Human Rights? No plan, just that the government groups went down to speak of the European Court of Human Rights. Then we come to this case as the government, according to our own tradition, has been under surveillance for ten months, and there is no planning. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister: How many meetings did the prime minister in the South have in mind before it came to poverty, and when do people really get the answers? Of course, Congress wants to hear the answers, but when do people on the Southnes, those who are now out of work because of WOW, give clear answers to their life and existence?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u16	Mr. President. I couldn't get it here, but 150 people have lost jobs in Southnes because of that and 750 in the capital area, so we're going to keep it safe at the end of the day. A senator is a member of that area, like the one listed here. Of course, it is important to consider the big picture in these subjects. I can see that the government has decided to agree on something in which the government was not prepared. I have identified that tendency in the management issue, and I feel that it is not particularly remarkable in view of the fact that what we have put on this table, whether in the financial program where we are just taking action to secure the level of employment, whether in social activities, when it comes to unemployment improvements and payments from a pay fund, which I do not remember the government's offer, it was only done here by the government. I don't remember any suggestions on that. It's all about getting cold in the economy. That is what we are doing, and the big thing is to make sure that people do not become unemployed for long periods of time. Through public investment, or by searching for a new education as well as by preparing for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u17	Mr. President. It is urgent to work tirelessly and firmly to solve people who have lost their job in the fall of WOW. Most of those who have already lost their jobs are in financial trouble and need assistance in this regard, and it is especially important that children who are unemployed and who have been spiritually conscious of the well - being of the people. The immediate direct effects will be enhanced by the loss of jobs at Leifs Erik's Air Station. Some 3,000 people are expected to lose their jobs in the weeks and months that follow. Some of them lose their homes at the same time because an employer also provides them with housing. In January and February, unemployment was detected in Réjanestown in 5.4%. Clearly, the number of unemployed will increase with the related consequences for the Southnes community. Governments are now under attack, what they will be like. Following the meeting of the highest. Prime Minister with unit officials this morning, I'd like to ask for the highest order. Prime Minister, to consider more carefully what reaction is expected from the government. Which squares will be enabled? Will financial resources be used to open schools for jobseekers who want to strengthen their position? Will SOS be used for the same purpose? Will the organized cooperation of countries and rural society on the well - being of people, and especially children in difficult homes, be established? Will interpretation services be increased as help is required for people who do not speak Icelandic? Is it possible that the government will make its synopsis a proposal for the implementation of an environment and transport committee, a proposal by the members of the Parliament to appoint a team of representatives of the rural community, and a plan to strengthen the position of the Southnes? Is that not an ideal position in our present position?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I know about this proposal, and I think there is good reason to consider it further at the Senate Committee where it is. I want to tell you what. A senator told me that I went over it at this meeting with a representative of four Southnesian local authorities what was already going on. As for school affairs and children, I want to agree with them. How important it is to consider the child's situation in such matters! Civil authorities went over what they wanted to do in that regard. I considered that the Minister of Education and Culture has already guaranteed funding for new courses in Keili, as well as funding for new construction projects at the Southside High School. We were particularly asked if that was the case, and of course we will persevere with that project. Also, the minister has been covering both Keisis, Fish Technology School, Southnes High School, and Southnes' Sial Education, as well as the Southern Knowledge Centre, to discuss how to cope with further academic contributions on Southnes. In the case of a labour oce, you know why. A senator made a special donation so that counseling and services could be added to those who have lost their jobs on the Southnes. A health - care minister has requested suggestions from the director of the Southnes'Institute for Health Care and the surgeon, in view of also the need for public health professionals to consider specific matters in the area, which have been considered for specific support and addition of nurses in schools in the area, psychology services, and the possibility of extending the pay period of health care.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u19	Mr. President. I'm glad the government is going to handle the situation. This is the situation of inactivity and indifference, and it will contribute to the insecurity and discomfort of people in a bad position. Now is not the time to pull your legs and see what sets, and now your sleeves need to be boarded, and this requires both funding and staff to keep your operations in check. Many rural populations will most likely contract, but the cost of social services increases. V.E.G. The government has declared a decrease in the balance fund to the income stock of rural society up to a total of 3 billion dollars. in the next two years. A fund is meant to include to minister to disabled people and to children in our rural communities. In the South, this decrease in the equation fund will mean more than 300 million. K. in the next two years. I find it obvious that these plans will make the company more difficult for societies in a bad position, so I ask: Is the government going to reduce the estimated reduction of the balance fund?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u20	Mr. President. This is now easy to say that these issues are agreed with the rural communities, and there will be no restrictions on the balance fund unless an agreement with the rural communities is reached and this is done in conjunction with other issues. Such an agreement is not on the table, so I don't think there's any reason to worry about such a loss. They would require adjustment of law, and they require negotiations with their communities. I had a meeting last time with my Icelandic country partner last night, including with regard to these issues, there will be no such impairment if there is no agreement that would be more extensive and involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u21	A respectable president. Stimulating implants that have died on a certain group of micro-organists are still uncorrected. 31st January. told the minister of finance in unsubstantiated requests that the promise to pay this was no problem, and it would probably be paying for it, whether there is money or not. Today's situation is that this absurdly hot potato, the vandal, is thrown between us. A insurance agency says it can't pay because it's so complicated. Well, the Ministry of State claims that there's nothing they can do about it because there's no way the insurance department can do anything about it. Then the Department of Insurance and the Ministry of Health points to the minister of finance. He says he can't do anything about it, the latest case is because he lacks financial resources. Then it points out that she is now teaching that nothing can be done about it. So it seems that to everyone else to be responsible but - to whom? Why is this matter, which is very simple, not solved? They've been talking about how hard it is to figure it out, how complicated, but did we ever hear a discussion in this room when these people were being paid for outbacks, illegal benefits? Someone came up here and said, "No, we can't pay them illegally, impaired compensation, it's so complicated to calculate it? I've never heard that before. If it was so simple to calculate and pay legal compensation, is it not as simple to calculate and pay legal compensation as it is right now?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u22	A respectable president. Now, the institutions involved do not represent the Department of Economics, but it's probably trying to deal with them. The words are just like that. A senator refers to my fall simply as being in violation of the rights of the people, not asking whether there are any legal rights to correct them, but rather the state does not refuse to act in accordance with the law. It's like if there's an adverse judgment on the state, it's just settled. To me, this case is not about will or unwillingness to settle the matter. Rather, it is about a right thing to be settled. It is difficult to sum up the subject, since it is not particularly in my language field, as I stopped. However, it is about the fact that an insurance agency has not been allowed to provide a basis for calculating the benefits of those living in other parts of their lives. Because of all of this, each case has had to be reviewed and replaced. I don't know exactly what that situation is, but I would have thought that the members of the Parliament were in the palm of a hand, watching it, getting information about that situation. Then we may need to ask ourselves, " How will I set matters straight for the future? ' I've always emphasized that such rights would be most consistent, so if we give the rights to those who move here, we'd like to see that the same thing happens when the Icelanders move to that country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u23	A respectable president. I thank the secretary of finance for the short answers. It is quite simple: Does this need special financial support, or does it not? I don't think it's gonna require any special funding for this. The public wouldn't get away with it, if he owed it to the state, saying, "No, I'm not paying, it's so complicated, it's a couple of years. It was June 18th last year that an agent said it was illegal. A new financial program clearly states: There is nothing to be done on this matter until first of January 1, 2020. This was made clear in the financial program. I'm asking, doesn't anybody know anything? Social Affairs says they don't need money, Secretary of finance says they don't need money. Then we're supposed to pay. I ask myself, " How do I pay? ' Are you going to pay for a tractor in the time you're gonna play? Or should only be steady interest rates, 5% interest? Four years to pay and say, "No, we won six, we don't have to pay six years. [[The president calls.]] How much is to be paid and when?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u24	A respectable president. I just want to draw attention to the fact that this case doesn't rest at all on budgets. Regular application of the Kingdom requires that it be prepared for what is not expected and that it can, for example, be made available. They're taken from a reserve. The treasure is against payment like this. Of course, we need to understand what is right and how much to pay. Only according to the rules. The money's due. There's not to be too much to pay. If people have, for example. Use the quality of the time they lived in another country, have the accumulated rights they still receive from rights practices in their previous habitat, should be reduced, otherwise an overexpensive. And to get a conclusion on this matter as a whole, we need to examine each matter. That work is taking place.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u25	A respectable president. I'll direct you to the highest level. Transport and Regional Ministers on the state of the Navy. The road manager set up an environmental and transport committee last week and reviewed the situation as it was then. It was noted that there was an important time point in this case. Friday is a time of communication with the shipyard and changes to the insurance insurance insurance that would have to be called in from the banks they provided, the shipyards had to extend the insurance or that it would fall. I'd like to know how things are about the communications of the Road Building and the shipyard. As everyone in this room can see, this is of utmost importance to Western eyes and transport. Clearly, it is important that Friday completes as far as the shipyards are concerned. The highest. A secretary of transportation informed us whether the insurance was called in by the roadtype, whether the shipyard extended it, or if it fell?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u26	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator, when the ferry comes, it'll be a good thing for the Western eyes and the people of the country all and the sooner, the better. The situation in this case is somewhat different, that at the last stage, this requirement should be made from the shipyard, in view of the fact that the Convention is both in the assessment of the Vega and by specialised parties there, of a very good deal that is maintaining and of any additional work has been made special agreements. Of course, since meeting the transport committee, contact between the shipyards and the Roadmaker has been naturally made. Exactly where the matter is at the moment, I dare not state, but I shall inform them both of the Councilman and of the United States on their first opportunity.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u27	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The secretary of transportation for the answer. I think it's very important that it lies before the first. This is a key, of course, when negotiations with this Polish shipyard seem to have made very specific demands in the final meters. It was well reviewed by the head of the road and the representatives of the Roadmaker last week for the Environmental and Transport Committee. I think it's a key to being informed about the insurance policy now after Friday. It's over. According to the information presented at the Committee meeting, the insurance insurance policy of the shipyard, the "Performance Guarante- I'm sorry I use the English concept - out. Friday and the options set out for the committee were either an extension of the insurance, that it would be called in, or that it would escape. This, of course, is a key to ignoring this communication.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u28	A respectable president. I agree with that. A senator that it is important that we get a decision on this matter as soon as possible. I know they're working hard to figure that out. All I've been told about is the normal way of communicating, but answer that precise question, which of these three means has finally been chosen, I shall come to the councilman and the House of Congress from the Ministry. This is important, not just for Western eyes, but for Iceland. The people in Iceland have their tax dollars to buy this ferry. It may well have been that this requirement was based on the actual cost of building such a ship, but if so, it should have been offered at the price of the ship and then people would probably have turned something else and perhaps not sat in the position we are today. The ship was supposed to come here. Some of the day and summers of the company are expected to be what it is trying to create a position to negotiate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u29	V.E.G. President. Because the matter was called up between the 2nd and 3rd. I just wanted to decide what we're going to vote for. The committee took the matter to heart, and comments were made, natural, of one of the methods used in the registration and evaluation of real estate, a form of income. The committee's doing pretty well at her committee party, huh? A top-of-the-art Board of Education, and don't make a change in the case. Here we vote for a change in information, as best information for a national file based on property assessments, while also stressing that a total review of the law will be carried out against the methods used.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u30	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson for his word that this should be reviewed. I'd like to celebrate it, and mostly point out one point about real estate evaluation, how it's determined. There are several ways to do this, and there is more information about the so - called income route and its support. There are other ways to decide the prices of real estate based on real estate. In this brief speech, I would like to warn that this can lead to an increase in rent prices and real estate evaluations, if it follows each other from year to year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u31	A respectable president. I hereby recommend the Committee on Environment and Transport to shape forests and forestry on the 2nd Environment and Transport Committee. on the matter, but no. 231. The name of the committee lies on the roof. One-nine-five-five-nine and a three-and-a-half-a-half. 1386. The committee received reviews on the subject of more than 20 sources and received high levels of interest to 20 guests, but not all of them came to the committee that had sent reviews. The bill is becoming a turning point, for new forest and forest - decommissioning laws are proposed to be adopted from 1955. Today's forest laws, however, are in force since 1955, but there are also laws for forestry on the law, and the bill also falls under the same law. Deforestation laws are up to date, and there have been significant changes in the forestry environment, e.g. in related laws, such as laws on nature protection, environmental impact assessments, organizational laws and cultural laws. However, these laws all affect the planning and implementation of forestry. This has increased knowledge and ability to create forestry, and the situation in society has changed from the current law. In view of this, it is time and for much improvement that forestry legislation is now being updated. Then I'm here to explain the changes the committee proposes. First there are two general factors, but the committee suggests that the role of the Agency, the Forest industry, is to work on forestry, as well as encourage it. In the end, the Agency has at the hands of such work, including Management of areas under the supervision of the Forest. So this is a suggestion for a change of Article 3. the bill that defines the role of the Forest. Then the committee proposes that instead of forestry, forestry will be used as it happens in the law text, for it has become a forestry for what is in English called the ◯forest Management. As a result, forest control falls out. One of the most important regulations and the most recent items in the bill is in Article 4. There are national and national programmes, but ministers are expected to produce less than every five-year forestry programme at ten years of age. As the law says, the national programme will address government policies that discuss the state and future of the forest in the country, as well as the national target of forestry. According to the Committee, such a program is a very important policy and management tool but it is very important that there is a clear perspective in the category of paint, particularly in the light of the major climate challenges faced by Icelanders, as in fact the whole world. In view of the Committee, it is important that the priorities of national programmes focus on forestry in which the main objectives of forestry, plant and soil protection, and sustainable use are combined. The bill does not expect a national programme to be submitted to the General Assembly as an arrangement for Congress, but the Committee suggests that the plan will be introduced to the Council Committee of Forest RePreservation for the Agency prior to its establishment and proposed a change in the bill. At the same time, the Committee suggests that comparable measures will be set for agriculture programmes, which are expected to correlate between agriculture and forestry programmes. So the committee also suggests a change in land healing laws, No. 155/2018, which we passed here shortly before the New Year's Eve. In Comb 4. The bill is recommended for the order of the project management of the development of a woodforestation programme, a project administration to submit a proposal to the Minister. It was noted that it was important that the project management be organized on a broad scale and that there was a wide range of knowledge. The Commission agrees with the views and suggests that the benchmarks of the project management will be enlarged from five to seven, underlining that at the order of the task management, representatives with knowledge of forestry will be represented there, or representatives with knowledge of eco-efficiency, nature protection, planning, culture, and farming of various kinds. Also important is the task management agents to reflect the attitude of forest farmers, forestry partners, nature protection, forestry, and other land use systems. Of course, it comes from itself that one agent can have an accurate knowledge of more than one of these views, and in the same way, many people with broad knowledge can reflect more than one viewpoint. In addition, the Committee shall have as effective consultations with as most economists and professionals in the implementation of national and national programmes. In the 5th. The bill will discuss the national part-of-the-count strategy that will implement forestry policies in the national programme, but the schedule should be re-evaluated at least every five years. It lists what is to be done in such programs. These include forestry and forestry areas, as well as other areas to focus on inforestation. In some cases, the committee stated that smaller forests were determined on short notice than five years old. The Committee says that individual forestry areas will not be specifically specified in national programmes, but it would be possible to eliminate areas where forestry is conceived or areas that are considered to be widespread forestry in accordance with national goals and priorities. It was noted that when a landowner wished to start deforestation on his land, such programs would be in place in a particular process that would specifically involve the implementation of rural society. In view of this, the Committee considers it important that the national part of the programme will make a clear decision in new rural areas and in other areas. The committee suggests a slight change in wording of that material. The Commission stresses that in addition to developing national programmes, forest and forestry laws will be taken into account other relevant laws, such as nature protection laws, organizational laws, environmental impact assessments, and memory protection. The committee suggests an increase in clarity in word change, as mentioned earlier. Then there's a forest and a national forest. Eight. It is recommended that forestry be kept in the forest for all the forests of the land and bush. A forest file is an important tool in forestry and the basis for the country's carbon accounting, and it is an important tool for all planning; the committee rejoices that it is legalized here. In view of the transparency of the committee, it is important that the registry be published and the information provided will be available to the public for reuse. Gives the committee a change of eight. The bill of matter. The Committee considers it desirable to have the forest report open to a website as well as to have the data available in Iceland's download services. for re-use. The committee noted that it was not clear enough what would be needed for a forest to be defined as a national forest, nor is it possible for the process at that definition to work. The committee points out that the name National Forest is defined in Article 14 of paragraph 2. The bill. These are forests or lands under the management of the Forest, whether owned by the State or by private property, as further defined. Four. Count 9. it tells us that the minister has regulations including: There is a limit to the survival, availability of the public, and services within the forests and other areas in the management of the forest. It will then show that geographicization is included in the annex to Regulation. At a meeting of the Committee, it was found that forests and regions will receive the status of national forests by regulations. Clearly, then, it is a minister to determine which areas are considered national forests. At that rate, he should be guided by the viewpoints listed in Article 9. The Commission feels that it must be clearly stated that a minister of national deforestation has been given the counsel of the Forest and suggests a change to make any doubt about that law. The decision should determine what of the views listed in Article 9. Using a guide, it is used to support the fact that a certain region is a deforestation. Several secondary changes occur in Article 9. This is why. They even fall apart. the directive that the forest industry is permitted to sell forest products that fall in national forests. The Commission believes that the forest - whether in national forests or in other forests under the forest - is permitted to sell from the available products of the forest. Then we come to a section on deforestation and reimbursement costs of forestry. According to 1 0... The bill shall be made in accordance with budgetary contributions to the Agency. It was noted at a meeting of the Committee that the forest industry had considered it to be unauthorized to refuse applications to participate in the forestry of lawmaking. The committee thinks it's normal, including to ensure the good use of public funds, that the Agency has the authority to prioritize and after-case applications refuse participation in forestry by law and forestry policy. Such priorities may be designed to provide economic and environmental benefits, including the management and development of crops. So the committee adds up to the 10th grade. Adds a new paragraph that will require such a warrant as well as that the forest is advertised by law-enforcement participants in forestry, as homes allow. In this case further details on the treatment and priority of an application should be placed in the Regulation. In 1 1. The bill insists that the forest industry negotiates with individual forest farmers for contributions to forest crops according to the laws of the law. It is then stated that on the basis of a forestry contract, it is permitted to pay up to 97% of the agreed forest stock costs. As shown in the explanations of the articles on the provision of the arrangement, paragraph 9. track No. 95/2006, about deforestation of law enforcement, is being added to the provision. In the 9th. The law refers to the cost of forestry, not to stock costs. The Commission stresses that the government's costs in this respect will remain unchanged from the current law and thus suggests that the object of the word will be removed. 14th degree. The bill shows that the forest industry should cooperate with areas in which forest farmers live. It was noted that it was necessary to ensure the deforestation of the forest farmers. In some ways this development has been vague in the past few years after the wood industry began the implementation of national projects, or oversight. The committee agrees with that view and suggests that the 14th chapter of each committee is in harmony with it. will add to the new debate that forestry and forestry groups are to be molded by a common policy of action on how to agree between the development and the democratic development of farmers. Then I'll jump to 18. ... aboutauthorityofauthority. Visitors before the committee made some comments to the arrangement that indicated a different understanding of its contents, when permission was necessary. In order to eliminate any reservations about the contents of the law, the committee suggests the adjustment to refer to the definition of forest, as indicated by Article 2. the bill, so it is clear that only a folding will have to be applied when every tree is dropped in the large region that it is considered a forest. Forest counts as land at least half aectieth the area and at least 20 m wide, where tree vegetation is predominant and reaches at least 2 m height. As a result, the committee has the right to pass a tunnel license primarily for timbery woodlands, a forest cultivated for timber. Regarding outdoor forests, we read: There were some comments about the various objectives of forestry for the Committee, including outdoor forests, grazing forests, pleasure forests, and other activities that the committee thought would have to define in itself that it would not have to define specifically as much as the bill assumes. The Committee expressed concern as to the lack of a discussion of forests, which have been developed by free partners, such as in the country's forestry, particularly in the forests and forestry areas around urban areas, often in urban areas. These areas are a number of precious outdoor areas for the inhabitants. The Committee places the importance of consultation and, in particular, teamwork and forestry partners across the country, in planning, as well as in environmental assessments and implementation of projections. These concerns are especially seen in areas where forests have been cultivated. The Commission believes that the construction of national parts of the country and the regulations of Article 19. The network of permanent deforestation programs is designed to strengthen the cooperation of concerned people. Regarding the protection and peace of individual trees, it was noted that by more than one source of information, laws were lacking to appease and protect individual trees and groves for cultural or cultural reasons. These may be unique trees that have been prominent in urban areas for decades, or these may be museums, and more may be counted. The possibility of adding such protection was highlighted in paragraph 16. The bill. The Commission considers it important to take on such protection and direct it to the Environment and Resource Ministry to find such a place in the law. So the committee does not view such protection as best in the laws discussed here. Such laws could be considered in the laws on culture, on reservations, on nature protection laws, or by clear protection laws in organizational laws. The best - known and discussed with the committee on this subject pointed out that this project is likely to best be carried out by memory protection and the protection of their home country history. This is then regarding the value of regulations: It was therefore recommended that uncertainty could arise in the value of regulations established on the basis of current legislation. In particular, deforestation of the law, which says that uncertainty could develop when these laws went into effect. Therefore, the possibility of enforcing regulations based on law on forestry was pointed out to be the value of the bill's taking effect. The Commission justifys the principle that when implementing new universal laws, regulations support their earlier laws as much as they will be in harmony with the new law, which depends on an explanation of the legal requirements. In this regard, the Sigurður Líndalur of Law and Law are quoted. Therefore, a special principle on the continuation of regulations is unnecessary and might be more likely to create uncertainty in the light of the above principles. In view of this, there should be no doubt about the issue of Regulation No. 285/2015, on deforestation national work, maintains its value in the translation of new forestry shapes, although it may eventually become changes after consultations in the future. In addition to the changes that have been explained and that I've traced here in this article, there are several technical changes made. The Committee considers the bill to improve and to be a timely review of the law that has come to its years. The committee suggests that the bill will be approved by the changes proposed in a special Senate document that I have now made clear. Under the commission, on the international day of the forest of March 21, President Jón Gunnarsson, Project Chairman Líneik Anna Saevarsdótttir, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Helga Vala Helgadóttir and Njáll Friðbertsson. Then Karl Gauti Hjaltason and Bergþór Ólason, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, and Resa Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brylfóldóttir were away at the hearing and signed as per 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, an officer of the committee, agrees with the opinion. When this bill becomes the law and the land - healing laws that have recently taken effect, the work environment changes and the potential for the implementation of forestry and land healing are high. Then there will be a great improvement, including the work of supporting climate activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u32	A respectable president. We'll talk here about forests and forestry. There's one thing I'm surprised is that this bill doesn't mention a name, i.e. that we be a little forward and come to burning rooms, making sure that the land is stored down so that the entire forest belts do not just burn and secondly that housing, farms, and so on, are not at risk, and third, that if the land is forgotten, if there is a fire in the land and it becomes a forest fire, it has to be possible to find out by means of tools and tools, as well. We'll witness this all over the world. It's burning forests, entire belts that have gone away, and the fire's out of control. No one seems to think, year after a year of such an event, to sit down and think, " How can we prevent an entire belt from disappearing? ' Can we not lock it down and arrange that there is no danger of it and that there is only one chamber that can burn? We must realize that there may be droughts, and many people in the woods can enjoy them, at the same time as burns. We know what happens if there's a great wind, then it's fast changing to hell on earth.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u33	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. He points to a very important and worthy subject. That's exactly why the national part-of-the-count strategy and the discussion are so important, in this regard, the development of rural society. It needs to include a view of natural hazards, and the organizational structure needs to take into account how growth in vegetation, both forests and the growth of tendons, can affect the spread of plant fires. I visited a seminar held by the European Union. Thursday. These issues were considered based on planning, working on national planning, and protecting the natural environment at all levels, including Based on climate change and their impact on natural plants, I think this case is important and that it needs to be handled. While this may not be the case, the laws on forestry and forestry that deal with them may not be appropriate. But when the plans begin to be met, these views really need to come into the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u34	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I don't agree with that. I think it would be very easy just to put a little nothing in there, considering that a burning chamber and something else is okay. I think that's the only way to be definitely done. The other is unclear. Then it seems that each member of the community depends on how he or she behaves. I don't think that's good. I think we should just take this all the way and put it in the bill and make sure these cases are clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u35	A respectable president. I thank you again for the discussion on this which is important for a follow-up on the bill. I don't know the strategy well enough to determine how this is handled there. But, of course, it is of utmost importance, as I said before, that in the processing of the programme, it will be taken into account as the most diverse viewpoints, whether they are involved in security, protection of another vegetation, building resources, timber resources, creating a secure environment for urban and urban development, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u36	Mr. President. I'm going to do a few words on this bill to shape forests and forests, and actually the forest industry itself as an institution. We are well - known as forests in Iceland over the years, and we have probably lost up to 90% of the forests that were long ago here. I'm not going to follow that story, it's complicated, and this decline has many causes, human, weather conditions, and others. But long ago it is clear that the role of forest growers is very strong because we owe it to the country, whether we can be responsible for anything that happened there or just part of it. The restoration of forest lands has become more important to us than just being true. This was seen very well at the work of the Committee. There were many visitors, many opinions and significant discussions on the committee, and there have been discussions at the General Assembly on forestry and forestry all along. It should be possible that land space in Iceland, where we've lost a forest of perhaps 20◯30% of the country, if we think so, would be sufficient under this recovery without self-injuring the most important characteristics of nature in the country. This bill contains a line of goals in a number of teams, seven, eight teams. I just want to point out what I believe is the important goals there. First, it is to protect the natural forests of the land and contribute to the growth of them. By nature we have birchs and try forests, mainly birch forests with testicles, which we know and exist in several of their original forms, although it has become a generation renewal there; to protect and restore biological diversity and balance between different ecosystems, many of which are around the country; to grow new forests to build a multiplicity of forest resources for sustainable use. There has been some issue, even in Iceland, whether it should be the crops or not, but I think the number of voices has decreased, simply because only for climate change would be important for nations that can pursue forestry do so, for their own good, and for their climates at the same time. I would also like to mention this by promoting forest carbon binding and their adaptation to climate change, as it is now clear that by recovery, we can make a great deal of effort in these materials and large quantities of carbon by forest, either this forest or the forest we are talking about. Then, what may be more important and often forgotten, forestry contributes to the protection of soil, seen by its roots, by changing groundwater flows and other factors, preventing soil erosion and water flow. And most important: If it becomes a volcanic eruption, it has been shown that forest grows to an area that is much better than land, including land, and even land. These goals are very clear, and all of them are to be accepted. Then I'd like to mention a national program in forestry until I was ten years old. There they are new recommendations - and there will be reflected in the new land - healing laws as well - that this national programme will be reviewed by a panel. It is not presented to the council in itself, but it is put before the panel of deforestation. This national programme shall state or deal with any of the groups listed here, from a to k, from the criteria of choice of land to forest for the fire management and security that are just before and are of course big issues. We haven't been seriously harmed by Iceland's forest fires yet. It's something important. There's been considerable probes in vegetation, i.e. Since fires and such things, or plants, but not forest fires, it is very important to take steps to build these into all areas of forest and plan and so forth. Here, too, it is new to increase the number of five men in project management to a seven - man project government. It is designed to ensure good width and should be especially welcomed. The national parting programme is followed by the national programme, and it can further contribute to the environmental protection we want to achieve in forestry, where humans are closer to the daily or annual work and closer to those directly involved in the forestry industry itself. I just want to mention the national forests. The bill points out which woods they are. So there are lands and forests in charge of the Forest. Then there are some factors that lay down specific obligations on the Swamp, the protection, culture, access, outdoors, education, and so forth. The same is true of the committee's view of the forest and its forest. It is a term that may, in some respects, be used in this context because, indeed, national jungles are forested, most if not all. But there are also forests that have grown up as free partners and forests in the country. We call them outdoors. They are addressed only here in the committee's opinion and not underreachable because they are very important in the whole context. It is now entering the local forestry industry, and it may not have to be reenacted. It is said that the forest industry should provide contributions to forestry, including protection and recovery of nature forests and sanctimonious farms. It's very important that it's within these forests that they can be retrieving nature forests, it's not just farmers or people growing forests to direct trees, but our natural forests, which are very important in the recovery of forests in Iceland. It is added in these articles that crops are produced by special treaties using foreign species. I don't think they've threatened the lives of the country so far and won't, although they grow up to hundreds of square miles of old forest, needed to get Iceland close to being self-saved by timber. It is very important that this is shown, and on the basis of the wood forest agreement, it is permitted to pay up to 97% of the agreed stock costs for these forestry. There is considerable generosity, and there is no need because there is still a long way to go. So here comes the key, which is in the 17th paragraph. This bill, sustainable innovation. It is simply the result of all of this that whether we're growing up nature forests or traditional crops or forest forests - or what we call all these forests - sustainablely guided. This means that when crops are created, with a large quantity of timber produced on our scale, it will be made with the sign that this will be planted in accordance with the plans for continued crops that will benefit us. I'm celebrating this bill and I believe it will contribute to further progress in what I would like to call both land and human culture and a good frame. Thank you for your cooperation. The environmental and transport committee and the quality of the cohesion of this committee as well as the state of the environment. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir went over here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u37	Mr. President. I present here the employment committee's opinion on the personal secret office's name, i.e. change the name of the agency. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Sigrún Brynja Erlingsdóttir from the Ministry of Employment and Development, Borghildur Erlingsdótttir, Sigríður Mogensen of the Industrial Association, and The Rán Tryggvadóttir from the Ministry of Education and Culture, and the Office of State. There was only one review, and it was from a private room. The bill suggests that the name of a private secret office will be changed to the Communicator Actual Enforcement Actually on Private License Act, No. 17/1191 and other laws that refer to them. The objective of the bill is to change the name of the Agency so that it reflects its activities. The present name, a private room, refers solely to a form of industrial mental rights, thus being too narrow a appeal relative to its actual activities. The term can be misleading to clients and other stakeholders and suggests that the Agency is only concerned with matters of private identity, despite the general relevance of its activities and responsibilities. It is important to ensure that all its domains are done as high as that a name does not show special emphasis on one field of activity above any other. In general, it was a pleasure with a proposed change in the name of the Agency, a change in Iceland's good interests, and one of the steps needed to increase the awareness of mental rights to the public, where the Icelandic company does not get enough of the protection of mental rights. At that time, the Society's organizations declared to the commission that they have changed their position from the previous transfer of this matter and that they support the bill with a complete mind. The Committee concluded that in other parts of the North countries, the name of similar strains is unique, i.e. It's phatent. This change can cause confusion, and there is not enough knowledge of the Agency's original rights to direct people in the right direction. The committee pointed out that the stage of a brainstorm is cut down, and it is difficult to break them apart. This new term, however, is for the benefit of stakeholders and adequate knowledge of the creationary rights within the Agency to direct partners in the right direction. This is the trend in Europe. The name of the European Union's Cove laboratory has, for example. had been changed two years ago to have better appeal for what she is doing. The committee counts this bill for improvement and suggests that it will be accepted as the same. Under this opinion, publications are written. Senators Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Director Elíasdóttir Fräður Proppé Eliasdótttir, Njáll Trausti Kristjándæn, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Friðbertsson, Sigurður Páll Jónsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, and Ólafur Ísleifsson. Elísa, the daughter of Þórðardóttir, was away from the situation. The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this. Mr. President. Finally, though this matter may be trivial, it is of interest. As mentioned in a report and also mentioned by the European Commission, there are insufficient applications to the protection of mental rights, which can be mentioned in the context that until two weeks ago there were no patents on the soil in Iceland. Now I'm not saying that this change of name is a fundamental factor in this and that patent applications will now pile in, but it is likely that a personal secret identity will be one of the steps we have to take to increase the consciousness of the public in these matters. So, as mentioned earlier, I suggest that the bill be approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u38	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a proposal for Congress resolution on the decision made by the Joint EEA Committee No. 258/2018 for the change in XVIII. Annex to the EEA Convention on Safety and Loyalty at Workplaces, Work rights and Equal Opportunities. This decision is made to confirm the decision made by the joint EEA on an appendix on the security and loyalty of work places, work rights and sexual equality and to enter the Convention of the European Parliament and Council from 6 October 2015, on the change of European Parliament and Council Directives and on the Council Directives. Since there was no improvement to the induction of the specified directive, the decision was no. 258/2018 taken from the joint EEA committee on a administrative notice of Iceland. This suggestion will help us to appreciate what such a warning is, as stated at 103 C.E. The EEA Convention. At the same time, the content of the model is explained. It does not include changing the principles of the EEA Convention. The directive requires changes to the five EU Directives in the area of work rights. The changes were replaced by certain forms of replacement, which were in the proposed five requirements for passengers. The objective of this change was to ensure that passengers have the same rights as other employees and that they could fully apply their rights to fair and righteous work conditions, as well as the right to information sharing and consultation. The implementation of the Directive here requires changes in European Community Community legislation, no. 151/2006, on information and consultations in enterprises, which law no. 63/2000 p.m., for group reports, and for the change to the law No. 72/2002, about the right of employees to switch companies. The Ministry of Social Affairs has provided a legal bill for the implementation of the directive at the current legislature. I think I'll be content with this for now on the Congress resolution of an update on security and loyalty practices at work, work rights and sexual equality at the EEA Convention.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u39	A respectable president. I'll explain to the Committee why. The Foreign Affairs Commission for a proposal for a resolution that has the long term term technical regulations, standards, testing and certification that is about the EEA Convention. We've called this plastic sachet resolution between us, members of the committee, and it's mostly about it. I'm gonna let me read the committee opinion. It's short and it works out well: ▪ The journal has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Bergþór Magnússon and Pétur Gunnarsson from the Ministry of State. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission No. 242/018, December 5, 2018, of the change in II. Annex (technical regulations, standards, testing and certification) to the EEA Convention from May 2, 1992, and to entry into the Convention Directive of the European Parliament and Council (EU) 2015/720, from 29 April 2015, for a change in Directive 94/62 to reduce the use of thin plastic carrier bags. Six months' delay in the EEA Convention was provided to lift controlled warnings to 6 June 2019. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The Directive (EU) 2015/720 responsibilities on the European Union Member States to reduce the use of plastic bags diluted with a concentration greater than 0.05 millimetres which fall in both thin vegetable bags and standard plastic shopping bags. These measures should then be taken to reduce the use of Member States in certain Member States on the type of action to be implemented. These measures may include the use of national targets for memory use, the maintenance or introduction of economic management devices as well as the introduction of marketing barriers, provided they are moderate and without discrimination. The directive tells you that such measures may vary according to the environmental impact of the re-use of a thin plastic foil pouch or its disposal, their characteristics for indentation, persistence or specific use. The implementation of the directive requires change of law and has the Environment and Resource Minister of the current legislation body provided a legislation for the implementation of the directive. In accordance with the directive's directive, measures are put in place to ensure that no later than 31 December 2019 the number of plastic carrier bags that each individual usually uses usually every year 90 bags or less, and no later than 31 December 2025 will be 40 bags or less. It is then suggested that, from July 1, 2019, the delivery of a load, including plastics, free of charge at products sites of sale, and the demand that the fee be visible on box reporting. Then I'll want to shoot because this foretold bill is a long way from what it's been through. Environment and Transport Committee. The committee suggests that the proposal for Congress will be accepted. Under this rule, we're going to write on March 25th. Councilmen Rósa Arna Björk, Chairman of the Committee, Brynjólfsdóttir Trali Einarsson, Ásgerður K. Gylfadóttir, Bryfjordsdótti, Brjörnótir, and Smári Mccarthy. The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter was absent from the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u40	A respectable president. I would like to recommend our committee on the Foreign Affairs Committee to confirm the decision of the joint EEA committee in terms of financial services and, in particular, insurance services. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Bergþór Magnússon and Pétur Gunnarsson from the Ministry of State. The Parliamentary Directive consults Generalis's warrant to confirm the decision of the joint EEA committee No. 214/018, in particular, was the change in IX by October 26, 2018. Annex to the EEA Convention, May 2, 1992, and entering the Convention Directive of the European Parliament and Council No. 97/2016, on the sale of insurance insurance, and on the European Parliament and Council Directive No. 411/2018, on the change of Directives for the legislation of the Member States. Six months' delay in the EEA Convention to defuse a administrative notice was provided on April 27, 2019. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. This directive is intended to protect the interests of those who receive services for purchases or future purchases of insurance. There are significant changes in the order of the disaster media, especially in terms of consumer protection. The main changes to the value of the rules of the policy that will cover the insurance services, the insurance companies and non-secures products, as well as the definitions of suitable conditions, and the range of values for such a conditioned space. The directive has additional requests on the informationprogrammation of insurance companies, those selling insurance and what constitutes good business practices. There are further rules on mutual recognition, government surveillance, and penalties. The directive only includes the change in the date of the previous directive. The implementation of the directive requires adjustment of the law. It is proposed that financial and economic secretarys will place upon the current council legal bills for the implementation of directives. In fact, they have already been submitted, but they have not been recommended. On the one hand, there is no question. 764, the distribution of insurance, distributed March 30th and the issue of No. 763, on insurance agreements distributed on March 28th. I think it's a reason to reiterate that this case has received the discussion we qualify for and is in accordance with our guidelines for the political treatment of the EEA. The case was sent to the State Department at the time before it was recorded in the EEA Convention. The letter of the State Department, dated March 21, 2018, explains that the committee discussed the type and follows the letter's opinion on the terms of the economic and business committee, which gave material coverage. The letter did not make comments on the recording of the EES Convention. Thus, this case has been discussed by both the Foreign Affairs and the Economic and Business Committee to adopt them in the EEA Convention. With this interpretation, we will handle this governmently, and in the following, we will address the discussion of the two bills that follow. Under the committee, you write along with me. Councilmen Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, chairman of the Committee, Ásgerður K. Gylfadóttir, Rós Björk Brynjólfsdóttir Bjornóttir, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Logi Einar Einarsson and Smári Mccarthy. The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir was absent from the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u41	Mr. President. I recommend a committee party with a change from what it's about to happen. The General and Education Committee for a proposal for a synopsis of a change in the synopsis of Iceland's Equal Rights Fund. The Parliamentary arrangement suggests changes in Iceland's communal wealth, which aims to promote administration and its activities. These proposals include the decline in the control of the fund, that the prime minister of the fund through the end of 2020, three mains and three reserves, and that the management board, including his defense and his daily management, will be at Ranni's Research Centre of Iceland. Then it is suggested that the distribution between 2019 and 2020 will be called after applications for projects and research that contribute to education and prevention with the objective of eliminating sexual and sexual harassment and sexual violence in Icelandic society. The fund is also suggested to strengthen projects that promote education for young people on responsible attitudes toward sex, pornography, and sexual violence as well as on activities that contribute to increased knowledge of defenses and the consistent response to violence in close relationships. A respectable president. This body of interpretation is a continuation of another body of Congress, of course about Iceland's equal rights fund, which was adopted in 2015 by the 100-year vote of the Icelandic women who were then celebrated. At that time, the fund was given an assignment that was rather detailed. In view of #metho, and in view of the development and growth that have been involved in these issues, it is suggested to add only the great work that is already being done. Before I come to the subject of the committee's opinion, I'm going to go over the importance of this fund. It's a pleasure to share the matter with you. A top-of-the-art Board of Education found a joint conclusion on the importance of keeping these funds going. When the fund was set up in 2015, it was up to five years, up to 2020, by means of donations of 100 million. K. every year. The management of this case brought great pleasure to the fund. Similarly, there was a very clear appeal for the operation. So I'm pleased to relate that the General and Education Committee has agreed that we also feel very important to continue the activities of this fund and that he will be allowed to work longer than 2020. We direct the determined request to the Ministry of Presidency to make sure that it is done. To review why it is very important for me to continue in the ministry, I would like to discuss just the many important things that have already been done and the strength that has already been distributed from it. I'm just saying a few examples, and they're not meant to be put above anyone else's. An example of several strengths and granters: MartúnDrífa Jónsdóttir, who received 2 billion. K. the strength to the project, the nature and cost of domestic violence - police, courts, and the welfare field of Reykjavíkurburg. By permission of the president, we say in logic: ▪ The aim is to investigate the extent, nature, and cost that result when men abuse women at home. A healthy estimate of the magnitude, nature, and cost of domestic violence of women has not yet been undertaken in this country, and the study is intended to shed light on these factors. The results of this study are expected to have high and wide scientific relevance. In addition, the results will enhance the scientific environment of domestic violence, providing a better basis for more progressive and enlightened government decisions and professionals in connection with domestic violence. It is hoped that the results of the study will be practical for work in preventing domestic violence and, thus, equalizing the sexes. Katrín Ólafsdóttir, who has the strength of 8 million for the project ▪ Overbid in close contacts from the view of a dowd. In logic, it says, by permission of the President: ▪ The objective of this project is to investigate violence in close relationships from the perspective of those who use violence. The field has been a major study of domestic violence/abuse in close contacts where strong sex relations are repeatedly displayed. The inhabitants are in much more men. In the United States, 22% of the women have experienced violence in close relationships with a male partner. The project aims to investigate the experiences of bacteria from the violence they use their spouses based on a dual method model; the other is an interview study and a mathematical analysis [...] and a critical word analysis [...]. Also, the Women's Advice got 2.5 million. K. Fortification for opening the service center for victims of violence The purpose of this project is, by permission of the President, to open a service center for victims of violence in Akureyri 2018. The plan is to open a similar center to the city of Bjarkarbund, in Reykjavík, which took place on February 1, 2017. The Service Centre will be prepared to prepare all services for sexual abuse, violence in close relationships, or those who are metabolised by human affairs and/or prostitution in one place that makes it easier for those who are able to get help. The ministry will aim toward the ministry of both men and women. At the center, there will be a cross-cutting team in the service they need. In addition to these projects, Mr. President, are there tasks such as ◯Stimple violence its manifestations, and what can be done about them? " The measure, nature, and cost of domestic violence of men toward women, young people, pornography, and violence, and the international conferences - national politics, nationalism, and feminism, to mention just a few of the projects these advantages have provided up to this point. What this proposal does is to sharpen the wording of the synonym only, i.e. factors that can be strengthened by equal rights. So I'm just going to look into the committee itself, with the permission of a president: As a result of a change in the interpretation of Iceland's Equal Opportunities Fund, the budget is expected to be extended. In this way the funds will be specifically assigned to strengthen the above - mentioned projects that highlight instruction and prevention. In the treatment of this situation, there was a view that the education and prevention should not be limited to the granting of new letters, d•g team. Instead, a new letter should be more general in order to maintain the role of Iceland's Equalty Fund, but it may still be strengthened by some form of sex - and - sexual harassment and sexual violence. In view of this, it is necessary to promote education and prevention to young people in these areas and to seek a variety of ways to do so. In addition, the Committee points out that increased emphasis on education and prevention is in line with a proposal to adopt a decision for the 2019,2022 on actions against violence and the consequences of many measures for education and prevention against any form of violence. The Committee points out that according to current c-group 1 mg. The synopsis strengthens Iceland's equal rights fund, a project designed to counteract sexual violence and domestic violence. The committee believes that these letters will be combined with the wording of new characters, d-and-g teams, suggested to add to the synonym. Thus, the c-participation is based on sexual violence and domestic violence, while the d- team of members of the Parliament insists on sexual harassment and sexual harassment and sexual violence, and g- people prefer violence in close contacts. The Commission thus suggests that the wording of the c-parties will be changed so that equal rights may strengthen a project designed to counteract sexual harassment, sexual violence, and violence in close relationships. This is also in harmony with the above - mentioned views of more general words and the possibility of strengthening tasks related in some way to sexual harassment and sexual violence, as well as to activities related to violence in close relationships. In the treatment of the situation, it was suggested that a new letter about Iceland's equal rights fund would strengthen educational, preventive, and follow-up projects regarding sexual violence and harassment at work. According to the Committee, the workplace is part of the community. Therefore, the Commission suggests that the above proposals can fall under D-Collar 1 but suggest that equal rights strengthen educational and preventive tasks with the objective of eliminating sexual harassment and sexual violence in Icelandic society. So the committee does not suggest adding a specific letter because of this. At the same time, it was criticized that projects have increased without increasing the financial resources to Iceland's equal rights fund in line with the rise in topic areas. On the other hand, a new staff, d- and g team, was recommended to modify the wording of the present d- teams 1.mgr. The synonym so that tasks according to the e- and f-ages fall under it. However, it was suggested that a special and permanent fund be set up to strengthen the adjustments made in a precise and precise region of affairs. The committee points out that with the synonym, it is emphasised on strengthening programs that promote education and prevention for young people about violence, harassment, harassment, and debates that promote such things, education for young people on responsible attitudes toward sex, pornography, and sexual violence, and increased knowledge of defenses and a consistent response to violence in close relationships. This will be the reaction to the awareness of these issues that have occurred in the recent stages as well as the # I like/ #metoo movement. In view of this, it is important to add emphasis to these projects, although it is possible to argue that a particular staff can be united or that a project can generally fall under other tasks according to the current panels of the Parliament's odorary proposal. The committee then feels that it is best to assign an equal fund to strengthen the requested task. In view of the increase in the material areas of the fund, the Committee considered it proper to direct it to the Ministry of Presidency to consider whether additional funds are needed, taking into account the need to increase the growth of projects may lead to affecting the granting of other projects to which the fund is intended. There was a lot of agreement amongst the speakers and visitors on the importance of Iceland's equal wealth becoming a permanent operating fund. Thus further research and support might be provided. The committee agrees with this, and it is the opinion that the fund was a good compromise. Therefore, the committee strongly recommends that the funds be permanently implemented and directed to the Ministry of Presidency to ensure that this will be, as well as contributions to the fund. The committee suggests that the proposal will be agreed with the following adjustment: And the new number, which shall be number 1st, shall be added as follows: C-Jar 1. Consider: A project designed to counteract sexual harassment, sexual violence, and violence in close contacts. Under this opinion, Páll Magnússon, who was absent from the case but who signed a warrant in 4 mg. 18th par. Local procedures for the Generals' Committees, huh? The members of Ingi In Jónsson, Kolbrún Kolbrán Árnadóttir, Birgir Ármannsson of the Year, in advance, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, and Steinunn Þóra, the Árnadóttir of Aarna, together with Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson. As previously said, Mr. President, it is a great pleasure to report that the committee is almost agreeing that Iceland's equal rights fund will continue after this scheduled and his first appointment is completed. I also feel that it is important to point out that when we add a list of projects to which this might be considered, it would be wise to consider whether there was no better and more money to care for all these classes. This matter was handled in a great deal of reconciliation, both when it was first laid down, and also in our day. How happy we are to continue in the same course when it comes to research and innovation in the field of equality!
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u42	Mr. President. Thank you. There's a senator for the prehistoric speech with the opinion. I firmly agree that it is important to put this matter in a clearer and better light. I strongly advocated it, as one of the representatives of the case as president of a party, changing the arrangement, and I think it is a great improvement in the fact that it enters the Rannis. I don't object to the fact that it's going to be a permanent sum. I ask, however, if there has been a comprehensive assessment, an assessment of contributions to equality, to the factors involved in the Senate arrangement, so that we can receive a comprehensive view of what is going to happen in research and development on the basis of equality issues. Then I'd like to know which. A senator believes that it will improve the transfer of this into a group of three men. I stressed the importance of changing the orders of the fund - today they are political representatives or representatives - to be consulted, on the part of the Prime Minister, at the order of a representative of the prime minister. I want to know what's wrong. A senator believes that it is absolutely certain to consult. □ What are some ways in which we can gain accurate knowledge of God's Word? It has to be said that the work force, not just in these days, has been so during the season, is not a direct consultation. It matters to me to know how it is guaranteed to the highest. The prime minister consults all classes at the council regarding the order of a government officer. We have some differences of opinion and approach to how to expand, strengthen, and strengthen the field of equality research.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u43	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter for the counter-sponsored. There's an answer that I don't know that such a complete meal, like what it is. A senator refers to, passed. I might well have missed that. Of course, we have a summary of the projects this fund has assigned and can be accessed to the board of directors' website. But I don't think this is what it is. A senator is already fishing for this. Perhaps the matter falls a little between a ship and a dock right now because this Ministry was being transferred to, and perhaps the answer lies there. As regards the discussion, it is not guaranteed in this suggestion. That is not mentioned, either in the committee opinion or in the Senate arrangement itself, so that what we have is the highest word. Prime Minister Katrín of Jakobsdóttir's daughter that she will agree with the order of this fund. Of course, we can personally call for this assembly to be done carefully. Also, I think a report request, which I would like to enter with a what. A senator would be an excellent idea to know how the collective funding and policy-making of equality studies are not available.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u44	V.E.G. President. V.E.G. In his introduction, the prime minister could do this, and we must simply trust that this will be done. I think it's very important that this transfer and the changes in the fund be consulted. We assume that it will be, and that it will be not only in word, as is extremely popular with the government, but it is a real will for consultation. The reason why I am discussing a comprehensive view of contributions to the work of equal rights is that it is of enormous importance that we make these practical decisions. When it comes to equality, we are in a position to lead a kingdom, and we are to stay there. We also need to have the courage to touch sensitive factors, strengthen projects, conflicts, and so forth. #methoo's a good example of that. I'd like to remind you, because the head of the Offense Party is here in the side hall, that the root that the balance fund goes a little far back, right up to 2005, by the time Ásgrímsson Asgrimon, the then president of the Agency, had a lot of ambition to further research and support the equality. Then, ten years later, this will develop into the balance fund on the 100th anniversary of our women's voting rights. What's not to happen is that this will be just some additional and we're gonna be breaking up on our equality issues a little bit, that we're hiding behind the fact that we're putting money here and then it's just enough. We need to know where it goes. We must be successful. We need to make some progress. I'm asking why. A senator would be wondering if Ranni, whom I trust so much better than most others for research and development, in cooperation with e.g. At the university community and the Ministry of Presidents, which are now presented in equal rights, we have to determine the best arrangements to further research on equality. Is it by maintaining the fund, or was there some other arrangement better to promote and support equality research?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u45	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent historical review. I knew that, for example. Could not connect to torrent %1. Interesting to know. I can say that it's the best idea to have a complete investigation of this. And where it is. A senator makes mention of the lack of perspective on matters that are related to sex rights and beautiful promises in those subjects. I'll be like that. While thinking about a total sexual abuse program, it certainly looks very good on paper, when I have tried to call for dissensions on what this money is going on, there is a considerable lack of answers. That was, for example, In the last financial program, when the present government prided himself on the importance of this program, but when I called for some sort of cost, the cost of each part, and the amount of money in it and the amount of it, it could not be answered. How interesting it was to learn that this plan was a treasure! It's hard to have a perspective on this, and I feel like it's a reason. Senators have limited tools to follow up on such plans. This applies, as it were, not only to gender equality but to various other controversies that come through here, and we have very limited ability to determine if the will of the council is actually being carried out. As with this schedule of action, but also the current anti- violence activity programme involved. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. Some tens of millions are to be picked up and used, for example. This part to talk it up a little. I feel that there are times when you are making butts where money is to be taken out of this project or the other but that all of your projects look really good together, without a complete view of the cost factors, the cost analysis, and some kind of project that you can rely on other than beautiful charms. Thus, they can be better handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u46	Mr. President. I'm going to briefly explain to you the warning I had at the drop of the case from a full-scale educational committee. It does not really lie that the main element of the proposal presented here, i.e. the change in the management of the fund and the project to be expected in a proposal by the highest degree. Prime Minister. I think all the projects being added to the fund's list can fit in there and that the change in how the government's system is changed is positive in itself. However, I wanted to give specific notice on the comments made in the General Information and Education Committee on the continuation of the fund, which discuss the permanent performance of the Agency. When a decision was made in 2015 regarding the fund's establishment, it was assumed that this would be a five - year project. That, of course, was the case from the beginning. I say for myself that I don't want to rule out that in order to get these matters to happen in some way to the future. But I am not prepared to speak up in this regard as much as the committee does in her committee. I think, even. taking into account the conversations that took place between two dates. The senators before, what? paritaprevir The Sunna Ævarsdóttir and the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir that prior to the policy-making decision, some evaluation of the Agency's activities and the results he has achieved during his working time as well as the holistic policies for funding in this field. This is what I wanted to do during the discussion, but of course I will not violate the progress of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u47	Mr. President. I recommend here for bill to correct the change in mail service law, No. 19/2002, with subsequent changes. It's about foreign mails and electronic transmissions. The bill basically includes three changes in current mail laws. First, it is suggested that a clear view be made that the law of the land exceeds international commitments rather than that international debt should be respected as long as it does not violate Icelandic law. Secondly, the MAH is proposed to conduct a national service programme, i.e. The European Commission, the European Commission, will be able to set reimburse and take charge of foreign packages to the country, and thirdly it is suggested that the MAH be authorized to send customs information to comparable partners abroad. A respectable president. I don't think it's right to tear down every piece of this talk. I think it's time to tear down the above three major changes in general. In current post office laws, international agreements are made higher than does in Icelandic rights. That's how it comes, for example. to level 51. current law, by permission of the President: These laws also apply to mail services to other countries to the extent that they do not conflict with international agreements for mail services. Other articles of the bill, such as 6. and 15. "Gr., "refers to this. It is my opinion that it is more consistent with the so - called dual-tegality theory that we believe in here in the country that it will be the opposite, i.e. that cross-reacts on mail services will keep their values as long as they don't violate Icelandic law. In fact, it is suggested by a bill that parts 51st gr. let him be taken away, and put in charge of the sixthfloor. The law as well as the 15th. The changes make it clear that the postmortem fees will be collected for foreign packages. It should be noted, however, that the Icelandic government still has a national commitment to the international agreements they have made in order to respect. There has been no secret in the last year that Iceland's e-mail operation, which has to do with all services in the mail in this country, is under attack. The position of comparable enterprises in the Western world is generally similar, but this situation has been observed on the part of the Society. to be achieved by adverse endpoints on packages and large increases in foreign packages. The bill is therefore suggested to allow the company's Marketing Authorisation Holder to provide a special fee for foreign mail recipients where endpoints do not pay for actual costs. It is then suggested that the loss of foreign mail messages cannot be added to the email and telecommunications agency or other administration authority. Thus, Mr. President, the objective of the bill is to protect the state funds position which does not come to pay compensation to an alminister for the services involved in this service within the public service, the bill will be legally established. Finally, the bill suggests that the head of the Marketing Authorisation Holder will be authorized to send e-mail information to foreign competent authorities or mail drivers abroad in order to facilitate the introduction of mail between consumers but also with the aim of improving safety. The purpose of the warrant is to speed up the tax pay of shipments to ensure the safety of transport by sea, land and air or to provide full-time reference. Iceland funded ohf. received an instructor's reply from Peritoneal Protection in 2015 because of plans to exchange electronic tax information with a foreign mail company and to the office of a customs manager. It specifically pointed out that it was desirable to have a clear authority to transport such information from the country by mail. It is very important, therefore, that there will be laws on mail services allowed to send and receive electronic messages with connection information on the sender, recipient and the content of mail shipments. Lack of such a warrant for the e-mail might lead to a major delay in a receptionist and even a halt. Then such messages speed up the registration and processing of delivered to the country, prevent double work and thereby reduce the costs of their treatment. A respectable president. I have now explained the subject of the bill and suggested that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u48	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for reviewing this bill to legalize a change in mail service law. I come up here to ask the highest. Minister of why the bill has come in here - he only reviewed it in his case - when we have an overall law to change mail service in the treatment of the council, why this is happening in this form. The bill did not go into the consultation mystery that when I could see it, I could see it. If this is to be done solely to meet the overexploitable situation in Iceland it is clear that it is a little late for it. The bad situation was clear to everyone when the total law came into this council. I'm asking, why does it come into this form and not just in the big bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u49	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. This is a perfectly normal question, since we have an overall review of mail services for treatment. Long after that bill was ready and came to the council. In the fall, Iceland called for a much greater change in business last year than would have been expected, that the package shipments would have been the problem. We actually have the bill to react to it and make changes, and that's why it's going a little fast, not going through the cross-examination and other things, to put under a leak for cash flows from the mail, and at the same time to ensure that by payment on the bill, as presented in my case, the mail or the public servant would not be able to make a requirement for a state fund of payment for this loss of services, but might be here. We are, in effect, limiting the damage done by the State over a period of time but putting in normal, according to our opinion, the possibility of changing the register. As the situation exists today, it can be said that the postman, the owner or sponsor, i.e. State, government funds, are subsidizing a foreign post shop in a domestic market. I think we all agree that it's not normal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u50	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answer. I understand that government funds, executives, or Ministers are trying to stop the leak that's obviously in Iceland, the massive leak there, and that's no joke. The Environment and Transport Committee is working a bill to change this arrangement so that Iceland will not be alone on this project. The situation wasn't hidden from us. It's not something new. This has been heard in the past few years. This also was the saying ten years ago, that it was a problem, and it is now more trouble with more parcels from outside. You also wonder if there has been a consultation with someone in the Ministry, e.g. to the consumers in Iceland. So it's just this question: Will this allow everyone to pay extra fees to all who might deliver mails to the country, private people and others, in a short time?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u51	A respectable president. With regard to the last question, it may be relevant to all those taking up the services, it's about that. The big bill is certainly inside, where this is only being handled, and when that takes effect, hopefully there will be a significant change in the environment. We realize that this will alter the environment of Iceland today. But this is not to be taken effect until 2020. This case comes in here to ask the council to do it quickly so that it can become meaningful as soon as possible. We hope that this bill will take effect as soon as it becomes possible to cope with increasing emissions from Iceland's funds this year because the package shipments have grown rapidly. It is true that this is a problem that many other countries and mail companies in other parts of the world have been facing for some time, and others have been responding in the International Protocol. But to us, the problem seems to have grown very fast. years and continue growing. I think this is a change that comes like a wave. The funds that flow out there are then some sort of subsidence at a foreign post office, either with the money of Iceland's mail that the Parliament, the state, will have to deal with or may be required by the employee to obtain this from the state's funds. We are simply trying to respond as soon as possible and therefore this matter comes in here. I trust the council will send this out for review. It is hoped that a community discussion on this subject will develop so that even if it is an additional cost, it is not normal for state funds or government companies to subsidize foreign posts in competition with domestic commerce. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u52	V.E.G. President. I recommend here for bill to correct climate change laws, No. 70/2012. The bill is submitted with the goal of strengthening the environment's environment and control. Since the administration of climate laws seven years ago, climate problems have grown and become very conscious of it. International and international responses and measures as well as in Icelandic society are increased. What a delightful development! The government has put climate issues first. The first, the first one ever made, is the financial operation of the State, and much work is now being done on climate issues. The bill presented here for the Allied Council suggests changes in Iceland's objectives of climate change, including the reduction to 2030 by the Paris Convention, the lack of carbon share, and adaptation to climate change, research and monitoring. There's a lot of new numbers on the bill. There is a new arrangement that deals with the adaptation of Icelandic society to climate change. Clearly, climate change will affect Iceland, and it needs to be handled in an orderly manner. These include changes in marine levels, eco-efficiency and water currents, increased deforestation, changes in marine life as a result of acidification and warming, etc. We've made plans here to reduce emissions, but a lead-in plan has been missing. That is where it will be replaced. In the bill, the law holds the obligation of the Minister to have a work programme for adaptation of Icelandic society to climate change on the basis of best scientific knowledge, and this, in my opinion, is a very important step of progress. The bill contains a basis for climate advice and its role. The Council of Climate Change has already been set up and implemented following General Decisions since June 2, 2016. The Council provides government support for the great work being done, and it is anticipated that it will play a vital role in the battle against climate change. The bill I recommend here is the first time required by law on climate control. In particular, it is stated that jobs are independent and impartial. The bill also outlines government climate policy on government activities. The Council of the Management Board of Iceland, the government agencies, and a company in the majority of the state have the obligation to set up climate policy. This is a turning point. In climate policy, a defined target for shutdown in greenhouse gas emissions and carbon balance should be set up along with measures to achieve this target. Not only does this reduce emissions but it also includes the examples presented by the board of directors and other government members. The bill expects the EEA to guide and implement climate policy institutions and to address the activities of the relevant bodies and the emissions associated with them. This recommendation for the duties of the Member States to establish climate policy will have a multiple impact here on the country and a turning point. The bill also contains regulations for a report made by Minister on the impact of climate change on natural processes and Iceland society. Such reports have previously been turned to the request of a minister, but in the light of the predictable effects and changes in natural processes, and society will now be legalized. The reports should take into account the regular assessment reports of the IPCC, the United Nations Interim on Climate Change, and the latest and best information on the impact of climate change in Iceland at any time. Iceland's weather agency will lead work on the reporting process using the approach of experts in the field of nature and social factors discussed. V.E.G. President. The rest of the bill has to do with the changes to the current legal requirements. A change in measures to measures of action in climate change has been proposed. This change is aimed at strengthening the program as a control tool to achieve the Paris Convention's targets of recession in greenhouse gas emissions to 2030 and the objectives of the government on noncarbonization in 2040. The bill also suggests changes in the laws on climate funds. The terms on climate treasure have been in the law since their sentence, but it is necessary that the regulations be updated and more clearly stated about the role of the fund. The funds are expected to operate soon. Climate saving is not going to come through a climate fund alone. However, the sea will play a vital role in this and will provide more clear guidance on its tasks with the suggestions set out here. A respectable president. I've traced the bill's main subject. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. Environmental and transport committees, after the end of the 1st.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u53	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Environment Minister for his historical history and this bill which I believe is in many ways improved; for this is, as a minister entered his history, a very important matter. It is important that we take it seriously. I have a few questions, however, that I will try to exchange an answer so that they can be answered for all in this brief period of time. I hope a minister can answer here. First, it is in the new article on adaptation to climate change that I believe is very important, and the study in climates shows that for the next five to ten years, everything will be important to mankind. In these years, we will determine whether we will meet global warming or deal with disastrous consequences, as is the case in the bill's report. I would like to ask a minister how he envisions such a plan to be carried out and who is responsible for follow-up. Could do that, for example. Be the number of projects laid down in the same article? Second, I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of how he envisions interaction on one of the projects that carry this large task with his hands and the climate Council, which also has, at least in part, to discuss these same issues, how all of this is going to play together. Thirdly, of course, I'm very happy that the Council of Iceland, the government and the public property are expected to set up a climate policy. But I don't feel quite clear, and I hope to the highest. A minister can help me there, whether this is one climate policy for everyone, or whether every institution and every company should make their own.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u54	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for the questions. I agree with that. A senator making adjustments to climate change is a very important thing that Iceland and I have not done nearly enough so far. That's why there's even setting this law into the law or making a suggestion there. What I've already done is hide a climate council to suggest how it's best to achieve such a strategy for action and I expect to get from them, soon in the spring months, something more about it. Otherwise, I assume a considerable number of people have to come to this job, the nature of the case. Of course, there are rural areas, government institutions responsible for e.g. harbors and roads and so forth, so I think it's a job that could take a lot of time and be with a higher source of people. Regarding the project management and its role and then the role of the climate Council, the task management is actually responsible for winning public plans, i.e. The compensatory measures programme, which will be reviewed by the climatic Council, provide management and guidance for the EEA's work programme, e.g. There may be a lack of work, what they think they need to do differently, etc. Regarding government agencies and the obligation to win a climate policy, the idea is that it is all alone. I do not rule out, however, that in some cases related institutions may be able to help with that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u55	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers are eager to know the answers, and they are happy that governments and businesses owned by the government and the Council are to set specific climate policies on an individual basis. However, it is stated in the bill, i.e. in the report, that no cost is expected to be paid for the government budget of the bill unless there are certain factors. Is it not clear that there will be some cost to government, government, government, and government organizations by winning and applying climate policy? The question may be, Do we need to assume that this is not necessary? It's not because I'm opposed to it, on the contrary, I'm happy about it very much. I'm just worried that you won't be money to do it, and that's what people will throw at you, maybe not work as well as with great ambitions and desirable things. But I'm delighted that at last we're going to activate a climate fund. It's a long time. However, I pay a little attention not to mention the funding of the fund, so I would like to ask if the temperature has been determined. The report provides an answer to some extent, but it will be from the EEA or another institution, as mentioned in the report, e.g. Rannis? Then I came to my attention the proposal for order control of a climate fund, and I would like to ask questions about it. The order of five representatives is laid down, but only one government officer, a representative of the university community, is stated that the agent should have knowledge of climate issues. Is it not reasonable that all representatives of the fund should have some knowledge of climate? It also states that now the fund will only strengthen innovation projects in climate - related technologies, as well as presentations and education, which I think are also very good. But does a minister have no concern that the fund is being overcrowded? You don't want to watch a little more? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u56	V.E.G. President. First, about the cost. The EEA is expected to play a advisory and surveillance role in the climate policy of the institutions of the state and to be involved in about 15 billion. K. Each year, however, it is contained within the financial resources of the topic field. The Agency is expected to be able to assist other institutions in climate policy development, so this is expected to be a cost. With regard to GDP, the Ministry has been in contact with Ranni because of it. We aim to work closely with Ranni, that Ranni's role is to advertise and help with distribution. Still, control of the fund is required in the bill. Small changes are being made from the current arrangement, both under specific guidelines, from Ranni's, including Ranni's. On the Second Creation Centre. They thought it unnatural for a New Creation Center to have a representative there, since applying for strength could make it impossible for them to do so. We made those comments, and we changed them. Regarding knowledge, I think it's very desirable for everyone to have knowledge of climates, but we specifically call it there. It is also important that there are people with knowledge of innovation and education that are becoming more focused on. I'm not worried that we're trying too hard because we have a budget for a number of other projects previously assigned to the fund. In fact, I think it is better to have a tighter role than he has today to make even more money. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u57	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a bill of a change in climate law. I'd like to say that I'm always happy when we have an opportunity to discuss environmental and climate issues. We did it last week, which was really good, and I think we should do more. I would like to mention in particular the importance of being brought into that work by professional living. The solution to climate is not just the role of the State, because if we are going to be successful in these activities, we have to work with our communities, our business world, and, of course, our communities. It's all about changing our behavior. I welcome the emphasis placed on it in the bill. I wonder, though, if a minister comes up after me again, if this is really going to be in the jurisdiction. This is not part of the law for representatives in the Council. It is not that a secretary has authority to make this decision in the Regulation. The report says that there are now representatives appointed by the National Associations of Business Life, the Neythic Society, the Union of the Icelandic Company, Festus, a center of community responsibility, the Farmers, two representatives designated by the university community, and two representatives from the environmental organization, which I think is a good matter, and I do not doubt that this counsel is very well ordered. In the law, I think it's important that we need a broad membership and even if I trust the highest authority. Of course, a minister in order to emphasize who should be involved in such a advice will never know what will happen in the future. We are, for example. with a president in the United States who can think of a number of things, so I wonder what the decision is. I suppose the Commission is on it and whether there is something on the bill that specifically determines the breadth and dimension of the board and the means to get to that level. Then I'd also like to mention that as important as it is for us to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, it is also important that we pray, and just as much as I feel it is important to look at Icelandic society's adaptation into the changes we have already seen and will see in the years and decades to come. It was an excellent meeting that the European Union of Iceland held last week on climate issues and how important it is that rural society be aware of that, as there are so many organizational issues like this. that need special attention when it comes to climate. Time and again, these can be simple solutions, such as blue green surface water solutions, which are of utmost importance, how we organize our systems, how our activities are built up, how our activities are built up, whether they are cathartics, bridges, roads, or other factors, where we are building, saying, rise above the surface of the sea, how close we can go to sea or lakes. All of them need my knowledge - and I say that with years of experience in rural affairs and certainly these were viewed in my country society, but I still believe that we had to look into it even more, because of a lot of work to do. Granted, there is a source of counseling, and it is important that the rural communities, which vary in size and quantity to handle projects, have some manuals and guidance on how to apply themselves. Of course, some of it is stated in regulations that may at times be too important. First and last, I think it's important that these matters be discussed seriously, and then I'll stress this with the response. I'm not making the big thing down, of course, a little less emissions and ties, but I feel that we may be even shorter in our discussion on how we should react to the changes that take place. A respectable president. Finally, I thank you very much for this bill, and I trust that the committee will do a good and thorough review. Then we have another chance to talk about it when we have received reviews. I think we have a lot of business here, and we need to do a lot more talking about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u58	A respectable president. Briefly: At the end of the talk, the work of the Commission I am on, the Environment and Transport Committee, was mentioned. The bill is on April 1, and there is not much time left in committee work. The committee has a number of other large cases in progress and some others were adding. I wondered, " Can I really win this case thoroughly? ' Like what? A senator often knows the will of the matter through the proceedings at the end of the council. Visitors are taken in lines, and we got all the guests, moved to write members of the committee, and then threw them back into the Senate hall, even Easter vacations, and ◯lelle greyer's in between. I really want to make it work. I want the bill to have a good start, so I was very interested in the last words. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u59	A respectable president. I have full faith in what happened. The environment and transport committees will be able to handle this situation thoroughly. I must admit, though, that in view of the relatively recent fact, I still haven't read the entire bill and the report. I see that there has been an excellent plot by our consultations, so I assume that most people with knowledge and opinions on this matter have made a careful study of it. That's what we're doing on the Senate Committee, and we senators are very trusting in, i.e. The very knowledge of the people out there. So I'll say what to do. The Environment and Transport Committee will need more information and insight. What I wanted to emphasize is that we always do our affairs well, the nature of the matter according to ours, but perhaps not least to emphasize the importance of discussing more environmental and climate issues. As I said in my speech, it is one thing to reduce emissions, another to talk about binding, but the third factor is also to talk about reactions. There's something that I think we need to have even better and more discussions about and out there in the community because there's a lot on the shoulders of the countryside. I'm so glad that the discussion is up.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u60	A respectable president. I'm celebrating this bill, just like the rest of us. Senators have done it here. It's a pleasure to have it done. At the same time, I think only of the highest. Minister discussed, i.e. adaptation to climate change, and more crash. Senators have arrived. We know what this adjustment means. We have to face countless subjects, some of which will likely cost us dearly. We will discuss not only the ocean's rivers as a result of land conditions and the rise of sea levels in some places but also the land rise elsewhere, which can cause serious problems. Inside the country, we can talk about land cover, I can name the landslides due to permafrost pricing, the river flows from shrinking glaciers, the increase in river flows, etc. We can talk about plant disease, all the human and social factors involved. It tells me that we need a great deal of cooperation to handle this. This has been discussed with a government agency that will probably be a few people, most of whom are involved. We're talking about rural society, all kinds of institutions that were named here, Siginga Institute, EEA, Weather Service and whatever, including World Security itself. There's more to be listed. Business life was talked about. I think of executives, contractors and others. This is one of the biggest cross-cutting challenges I can find in the years and decades. This raises the question of coordination and the collection of information on what is going on, the follow-up with action taken, the assessment of potential consequences, changes predicting. There are a lot of projects, and then the question is, Can the climate Council control this - it's another one, the binding, the disposal, etc. - or do we have to create another institution? I'm not really gonna throw it out here. Could there be an office, a small staff within another facility, or is there a need for such things at all? I know, for example. that Sweden has a large and powerful organization called Resilience Centre; resilience means, to say opposition or opposition and to climate change. I think the highest. Environment Ministers, the Ministry and the Project Management Board, which are being prepared here, climate councils and funds, and others are about to dive into this. Perhaps it would be clever to hold a conference, drag a lot of people to the table, and see how the organizational programs can be met, i.e. outside and integration, management of reactions or adaptation to climate change. It's a thought - provoking point, but I don't quite see it that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u61	A respectable president. Climate is certainly the greatest challenge of our day. In any case, the schedule we have, at any rate, is a little empty, if I'm going to tell you right now, in that it does not address the impact that any operation will have or what every action will take. I'm on both the Environment and Transport Committee and the Fund Committee, and I'd like to draw up the financial programme we're considering here. It is one of the environmental objectives that all action plans in climate change will be carried out. It seems to me that the situation is initiated at the beginning of the year, in the case of 2018, that no measures have begun. The 2020 criteria are that 28 of the operations that are there of 34 and finally in 2024 will start working on all the operations. The problem is that in an action program as it appears today, we do not know how each action will have affected the objectives we have set with international commitments. That means that we have begun funding measures that we don't know how much money we really make up for or how close they are to the limits we will be to at least to reach and beyond when we arrive at the carbon equation later on. It is assumed in the report that the plan of action will be updated at intervals not less than every four years. It is clear that the plan of action must be updated very soon. I was hoping that a different version would become available and there would be a sign in the financial program so that we could see how far these measures will take us. How far is it expected that eco-friendly cars will bring us toward the goals we have set according to international commitments? The report also speaks of projects that include, for example, the following: ... hiddenin Iceland's Weather Office. During the last budget, Pirars contributed funding to the measuring instruments for the Weather Service so that they could round the country. There were only seven or eight bales to measure changes in sea level, sea temperature, and sell, and so on. I wondered if this has come in, this is only 50 million, if these instruments are planned if the Weather Service is to handle these projects and be this intermediate member of the United Nations that needs to be followed by the results we achieve. I wondered if the Weather Service needs the instruments to see if we are getting the results we need or not. Generally speaking, I feel very positive to see all these changes. I would have wanted to do more of their operations and less on their preparation. In my opinion, there should be more information on what is being done now, what will be the result of this operation. I would like a minister to help us to be sure that it is coming. The sooner we see the results or, at least, the likely results of the current procedure, the more I feel at the budgeting of the financial committee with what we're doing here, funding these measures. It is definitely important to finance action in the right order and to achieve the most immediate success. If we place limited funds on these actions, it is of utmost importance to achieve the best results as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u62	Mr. President. I wanted to come up here a little bit, first of all, just to say a little bit about it. Bryndís Haraldsdóttir about the importance of talking more about climate in this council hall is likely to end up with the biggest subject we are facing today. It's just the situation. The situation is, I think 99% of the world's climate scientists have agreed that it is a greenhouse effect and that we are facing a huge climate change. Although Iceland is an island in the North Atlantic, and we're lucky enough to be a little off when it comes to these changes. Although there are some changes that humans can try to convince themselves of having a positive influence in Iceland, I think that the little impact, if any of them are, will be so much more than zero in the end of the severe consequences of all the others. We have already seen in many parts of the world these effects, with much harder weather. We're seeing a sea level rise. We'll see, for example. changes in marine ecosystems, which, unfortunately, we have far too little idea that we are not studying them well enough and that we do not place enough money on it - which, of course, causes concern. But there is certainly reason to discuss these matters more often. I'm afraid we'll do it in the future, simply because we won't be able to avoid it then. That's why we're supposed to be discussing it much more right now, before everything gets colder. Whitney Houston, the singer, sang about the future and the importance of teaching them well and letting them guide us to the future. This is my attempt to translate the English text. I hope you'll accept the will for the job. Now, though, children around the world are rising up and protesting political apathy when it comes to dealing with climate issues. That's understandable, considering that we are here on this bill really talking about community adaptation to climate change. True, it is time, even for long periods of time, and certainly very positive that it has come in here, but it is a very sad situation. As I mentioned in the previous talk, the situation is that even if we were to stop all greenhouse gas emissions tomorrow, this would not be enough. Yet, the effects would be significant and change in our way of life. That's the big deal. We should listen to these children who have been standing here on Friday outside the house and called for a stronger reaction and for changes. It is clear that our community and way of life need to be altered. We need to reduce our consumption, we need to increase the equation, and we need to realize that this is our last chance. If we do not react now, the consequences will be irreversible and very serious. I could stand here all day talking about the climate as such, but as far as this bill goes, I think it's a very good price. As I said before, I'm glad it's done. I believe there are many improvements in the management of climate. I really hope that these changes will cause us to spit in our hands and take greater and faster steps in our response to climate. But I still worry a little bit because we're overreacting. We're always calling on committees and project groups to look at this and make reports that are great, and of course we need them, but you may be just being impatient because it's such a serious situation we're facing. One feels that we should be doing more and that we should do it more quickly. We could, for example. the decision to prohibit the import of new gas and diesel cars is much sooner than we are going to do. Why are we not taking carbon bills from all emissions, such as - The watch? There are many things we also need to look to, but maybe we're not doing, e.g. to encourage the communities to move forward. As a matter of fact, I'm going to take out, take out, take out a hell of a lot, and have a very ambitious conference last week on climate issues and what my rural society is doing. I have mentioned earlier in this discourse what the local Society of Akureyri is doing and how exemplary it is. It has made it a goal to be a non-carbon object based on this cycle model, that the waste is being used. For example, the company of Vista, which takes the steak oil and bus in Akureyri, is free for everyone, using it to drive and sea streets as well. Then there's the molt, i.e. the collection and use of organic wastes into manure, and the natural use of it might be even more effective. I know there's a lot of ideas about doing that, which I know that the highest. Minister knows pretty well. That's exactly what we need to make. We need to encourage people to use common transportation, bus, public transportation, and so forth. Sadly, we need to consider shrinking, for example. Flight. We need to look at transport. In this context, I would like to mention a point that was established when we went through the Northeast District in the district of last week. There was a very interesting point regarding the move in the country. If a restaurant at Soyland wants to buy fish, e.g. of the Ness shop, the fish needs to be sent to the South first to get it to Sufjörður, since all transport is like this. As in the old days, more migration is being done within the areas. It's totally ridiculous. It's the same with the mail at the Iceland Summit. All deliveries go south first. If I send e.g. A letter from Akureyri to Húsavík, if I get it correctly, goes to Reykjavík first with a truck and then to Húsavík. This, Mr. President, is something we must look at and modify because of the emissions there will be necessary to eliminate the natural pressures of the roads and the infrastructure. These are things that need not spend much time wondering; rather, we need to change them. There are these things in the county that really need to be looked at, and I'm challenging the highest level. Minister trying to find out that the climate project is not so silly, I'm just gonna say it straight. Finally, as I came into the counter, I still have, in spite of the highest answer. Minister, a little worried about the funding of these projects. Although the EEA is certainly responsible for supporting the development of the European Commission's climate policy, institutions and businesses in the State, it is clear that this too will be at the expense of its own institutions. Even if this cost is limited to employees' jobs, there is still concern that these institutions and companies are not expected to have some objections to these important projects. I mention the costs of these same institutions and businesses, e.g. because of the personal protection laws that were not expected in their donations but are killing many of them, despite the fact that this is a very important work there. The same thing is true here, this is such an important project that money cannot be expected to survive. Finally, I'd like to encourage the government and the whole body of Congress to listen to the children's plea not only in Iceland but in the whole world, to action and response. In fact, as it is today, we are not even talking about this becoming a problem for our children and grandchildren or grandchildren or grandchildren. Rather, it is our problem. We are actually confronted with a problem that will take place in our lifetime. All of us have the best interests of responding quickly and safely.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u63	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to thank you very much for the excellent discussions that have developed around this bill and maybe as well as in general on climate issues. How pleasant and pleasant it is to share in such a discussion at the international Parliament once a week! Is that not a minimum? It's a question of putting it in Congress law. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Only in an effort to respond to comments from an outstanding source. Councilmen, I'd like to begin with. paritaprevir Bryndís daughter Haraldsdóttir: I agree with that as a boy. A senator mentioned about the job scene and would like to mention it, as mentioned in the last week's special discussion, that we in the government have been working on the shape of a job meeting field, just to work on these issues, and not least to encourage the business to go out with the governments into ambitious plans for the lack of carbon in the year 2040. Actually, I'm looking at the Ministry how we can work with the non-carbon object specifically. It's not only one of the projects I've assigned to the climate council to provide us with guidance on how to work such a program on non-carbon. But I believe it is equally important to try to get the different sectors of society with us in working out such programs for each sector so that we can get a complete approach to this important objective as soon as possible. In effect, with the order of the climate council, the first decision was made. Then it was made on the basis of a synonym as that day. paritaprevir Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, was approved here at a council assembly. I decided to move on that way to an extended arrival at the council. There was more geared into the academics and institutions, but I wanted to take the job in there more, to take in the innovations, etc. It became a pretty big piece of advice, if I recall correctly, a hundred and sixty - twelve people, for it has been the same with the pros and cons as we know it was. When we went to win the bill, it was the Ministry's opinion, but also after applying it to the head of the climate council, that there was a need to maintain a measure of space, but to mention a particular key member who is then representative of a career, a university community, rural society, and environmental organization. This is something that we could beard back and forth, and I'm sure the committee will address this point, whether it's better to mention as many people or to give the space we expect here. There's something I know the committee will look into and we'll see what comes out of it. In particular, in terms of our rural communities, we expect a representative of the rural community to enter a projection management programme for counterweight measures. I think it's very important. It was a point they pointed to in the review process, and we agreed. I'd also like to mention that in the past I started the work of the Organization, a kind of supplement to national planning policy, with three main focus factors and one of these as climate change, and that it is extremely important to become part of a whole organization complicated the impact of planning in climate change. These include transport energy exchange. We could mention the restoration of wetlands or other land conditions and, above all, the adjustment referred to here by a number of people - and hopefully, I can discuss it all at once. I agree with what. Congress on how important it is to work on such a plan, but we also need to realize that today we have no such strategy. Somewhere you gotta start. So I decided to hide the climate Council at one time to bring some kind of guidance on how to do this, as well as to increase the occurrence of as many as possible in the way it should be worked, since in the climate council there are very many people and there are very different. It would then enter the government, and on the basis of such matters, I believe we are taking the first step in answering many of these questions and concerns that I hear members of the Parliament mention here, including the consequences, surveillance, and so forth. There are all factors to consider with regard to such planning. I believe it is important that the government performs these plans, but the climate Council has the responsibility to process such a government strategy. The climate board is not to be assigned to this strategy but to have a more conservative role. I think it's an arrangement that makes sense. We have an excellent source from the last scientific report directed by the Weather Service, a fine subject for starting this work. But I hope now in the spring months, we'll get a climate Council proposal to keep up with this and then we'll go to that job. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson has often discussed this with the plan of action, the cost of each action, and its success. I think I'll have to promise the senator to bring all of this together to him when I can, but I'd like to mention that some of these measures do not involve any direct expense - straight or not straight, you say then, will be Ragnar Reykás - i.e. Things we've already done. It's not the expense we start taking from the budget set out in the climate, it's the work that we do at our fingertips, and so on. Then consider some of these steps together. It is not really possible to examine them individually, perhaps especially when considering the energy exchanges in which they are holding hands, governmental action on the field of injury, tax change, and the actions to build up wood. So it gets a little more complicated when you look into it. For the funding and the funding process that we do not know a hundred percent of each will bring - yes, it may well be critical, but I think it would be easier and more difficult to criticize if we didn't get the money to work because we already know what major measures are likely to make. It's in energy exchange, and it's in the field of carbon binding. It's not something that's out of nowhere, it's built. in the IPCC report from October that speaks of exactly the measures in this area that are of great importance. Following the proper budget - I think we are doing just that by putting money in the energy exchange and in the carbon bond, and then looking more forward to the future and putting money in innovation and education. I then give a special mention of a new feature in a new financial program that is involved in the so - called cycle economy. There is a much consistent effect on waste - related activities and the consumption of climate. I agree with what has been observed in many members of the Parliament that it is desirable to discuss the issues of climate at the General Assembly, that the strategy and follow-up of the plans established by this bill, if it becomes legal, is subject to further discussions at the Council. When I say material, we have more in our hands, some plans, and reports that are easier to establish such discussions, so I believe that it is at least very positive. It is a question: Are we too slow? This is the million dollar question, perhaps, as a matter of course. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Peace of Elíasdóttir's daughter proposed. Various groups are appointed. Many feel that more is done than less by putting on their boots and walking. But I believe that the government now in power has put the boots on and handled matters firmly, organizedly, and in harmony with the international community. Happily, the requirements have increased at the same time very much at the same time. The survival of society is very positive. Hv. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Peace of Elíasdóttir's daughter mentioned the cost of climate policies to institutions. As I mentioned earlier, this is expected by the EEA. I'd also like to point out the savings involved in economic management of the institutions by attacking climate-based planning. It can be practical, not just financial, but at people's times, e.g. attempting to reduce travel and to use telecommunications The most valuable thing saved is people's time, I think there's something we need to look to. I agree with what has been presented here for children and young people who require changes. It is very positive to see it happen in our worldwide community. I think it's a matter of reaction. The bill presented here is a small fraction of what is going on in climates, and we did well in a special discussion last week. I am content with this and hope that I have been able to answer as many of the questions that were raised earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u64	A respectable president. Only about the order of the operation and the funding and why I complain. Energy exchange action is, for example, A major part of the report, a million tons, shows that it can be very successful. But the cost may be very high. Meanwhile, other measures may be much less expensive but are far more effective, e.g. shutting canals in the most advanced wetlands. But there are different commitments in which the recovery of wetlands does not play into the direct commitments of a state's budget and in this way is not as high in the pecking order as it is, so to speak, when it comes to the direct financial commitments of a state's budget, but surely should be much more important in our priorities, just to fix the problem as such. It is not necessarily a great return of funds from stopping into the upkeep of land and retrieving wetlands from a government fund, which, in turn, is an enormous benefit of this in the overall climate. It's the priorities you see playing a little wrong in there, and I'd like to see it better than that. The energy exchange is extremely expensive, it is both energy development and natural to replace all automobile fleets, e.g., although the cost of stock costs is high in the long term, the benefits are very high. On the other hand, the recovery of wetlands is extremely rapid, but the cost is relatively low.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u65	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this fine answer. That's exactly what we're going to say. Councilman, energy exchange, e.g. However, shoveling into ditches differs from direct commitment to Iceland. Sifting into a ditch prevents emissions just as important to the atmosphere as any other. The atmosphere makes no distinction as to where each molecule of CO2 comes from or where each molecule of CO2 comes from. But I think we're gonna do what. A senator can agree completely that both are important. That is exactly what both of us stress. One of the main reasons for attacking such measures as recovery of wetlands or birch forests or what they are going to enter a carbon bond is by working on very large objects that are the molarium in the atmosphere. It doesn't matter where they come from. It is important to keep them from going out, and binding them is important. The appeal must also be taken into account in connection with the purpose of non-carbon Iceland in the year 2040. The fact that this is a government contract requires that we also take action like this. Therefore, I am very supportive of having this government's aim as one of the things I should consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u66	A respectable president. The wetlands and energy exchanges were clear examples, and, of course, both are being employed. You cannot see how fast you will go in one mission or another in order to fulfill these commitments that you are working on. But exactly because our objective is non-carbon, Iceland, in 2040, you can see, based on the reports we are working on, that these actions alone are not enough to achieve that goal. There are other things to do. The forestry is e.g. One, but there are other plants, which are much better in carbon binding than in forests, faster, etc. There are other measures that you would like to be considered at least. That is why I would suggest that every week there is just a special debate on the climate issues to update the situation and tell us what the course is, for example. in this schedule of action, on which topics are being considered and what results are being obtained. I'm returning to show the results and that we can see the benefits because the goal is clear for 2040 and should happen sooner. The objective, of course, is that we should make it to be carbon-negative, i.e. that we can reduce carbon from the atmosphere. This enables us to control how much carbon or how much crystals we usually have in the atmosphere. As noted earlier in the discussion of stopping now, the effect of the amount of carbon that is in the atmosphere today is not yet evident. We must be able to control whether we need to go back or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u67	V.E.G. President. For other measures involved in the procedure, it can be said that the majority of the measures are being carried out. As for forestry, land healing, and the recovery of wetlands, all the work I gave to the State and to the land transplants last year is the project I assigned. I'm expecting suggestions, in fact, I've already had drafting from those who are already working out. I'm expecting to introduce this part of the operation program, where we've decided how much money to spend in the spring months. The same is true of early energy exchange projects. In terms of energy exchange, we are not alone in what types of action we are talking about there. We're doing pretty well in the electric truck, because it's been a long time before and also because there's been an attack on the construction of infrastructure all over the country. We're in second place from the world when there's a fresh recording of electric cars after Norway. I'd say we're doing pretty good there, but we're gonna have to do better, that's right. Finally, I want to say, just to sum up this conversation that is very good and useful, that there are four things we watch now the first episode, the forestry, the land culture, and the wetlands first, the energy exchange second, third of which is to enter capitalization into innovation and fourth education. Thank you. Congress is very well discussed with members of the Council in the climate crisis.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u68	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct the conversion of chemical law. The objective of the bill is to strengthen the chemical legislation, make it more accessible by more targeted and clearer term use and the implementation of the EEA rules for mercury. The bill suggests changes to the specific requirements of existing laws to make them clearer, simpler, and more purposeful. These changes are also designed to ensure market equality and reduce the cost of employment. The proposals that involve the material changes are primarily relevant to the implementation of administrative guiltys and to the conversion of user secrets. In a chemical process, there are some factors that include: It is considered whether or not specific measures will violate the EEA Convention due to the inhibition of free flow of goods, such as the obligation to report marketed toxic and plant protection products and non-employable waste products for commercial use only. There have also been opinions that may be partly attributed to 13 European regulations and directives introduced to national rights in a single law code. For instance, it has been found that certain terms in the Law are defined differently. Thus, the concept of protection, which is a synonym for plant conservation and disinfectants, has been found to be inappropriate in its use and, in particular, to interfere with the laws, each with the EU protection directives and disinfectants. In order to enhance the light of the law, therefore, changes are suggested to use the terms plant conservation products, disinfectants, and elimination materials instead of the equivalent. Play ball now. The bill also suggests that any other definitions are to be modified, others removed or updated, as well as that some of the terms will be changed. It then suggests a slight change in the role and function of governments to make the administration more efficient. It is thus proposed to enhance the role of national health committees, that the State's labour management system collects information on sterile diseases and that the poison centre of the Landal Hospital will combine all cases of sterility toxicity and all measures made to reduce the risk of further events. It is suggested that toll managers be obliged to refuse the toll pay of materials and materials that do not meet the requirements of the law to submit proposals from the EEA instead of toll manager authority and that the EEA will no longer be obliged to issue a registration number for the customs of toxic and authorised materials. In accordance with the implementation in Norway, the length of user-free intervals is suggested. Authorities have a condition of five years which require unnecessary renovations with the relevant cost of permission to the Agency's law of re-education and payment. The legal environment and the use of plant protection products and elimination products do not make such frequent renewal necessary. It will then be proposed to improve the requirements for re-education prior to the renewal of a user license, in view of the requirements in the EB protocol for the Community's implementation of a sustainable use of protective materials. It will also be clear in which cases the Agency is authorized to withdraw the permission of the user, e.g. if the permit holder commits a violation of the law and regulations related to his work. It is suggested that there will be a change in currency requirements, including through a publication of responsibilities for the responsible responsible for the marketing of toxic products and plant conservation products and disposal materials intended for commercial use only. It is considered a reason to further explain the payment of a more successful form of forced application to follow-up measures that are currently required in the EEA budget. There have been some cases where the application of the decoding process has caused problems, and therefore some adjustments are proposed to the measures of extrusion measures. It is considered that the discontinuation of the marketing product should be temporarily considered below XIII. section of chemical structure, is, in fact, a preliminary method rather than a decoupling strategy. In effect, the adjustments suggested in the bill turn toward a legal application of the EEA's clearance to temporarily halt the marketing of products that do not meet the conditions of chemical law. The bill is also involved in the implementation of important international agreements on climate and mercury. It is suggested that the EEA will be allowed to add administrative fines due to the violations of fluorinated greenhouse gases, or so-called f-gas, and, on the other hand, due to greenhouse gas emissions on the transport sector for each energy unit from fuels and delivered energy. The two important steps in climate change are involved. It has to be added because Iceland has validated the Minamata Convention on Mercury and is also associated with the proposed production of mercury. As I've traced above, the bill is primarily proposed to make changes needed in the light of the experience of the law's work aimed at improving and streamlining legislation and implementing the triennial process. If the bill is legal, it will ensure greater safety in the treatment of chemical substances. A respectable president. I've traced this bill's main subject and suggested that the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u69	Mr. President. I recommend a sexual autonomy bill. The bill suggests that the right of individuals to define their own gender is laid down in Icelandic legislation to ensure that each person's gender is accepted. The law is also designed to protect individuals' rights for physical immunity. The development of this bill is in line with the government's declaration of policy that the government wants to put Iceland in the best order in the affairs of gay people, with ambitious legislation on sexual autonomy in accordance with the recent European Council's statement on the rights of intersex people. At the same time, the Declaration states that the law required that individuals themselves be allowed to make their sexes, to have sexual identity approved, and to enjoy physical immunity and equality for laws independent of sexual orientation, sexuality, gender characteristics, and sexual expression. With the bill coming up to meet new ones, a change of attitude toward official registrations of gender, and a role in improving the rights of trans and intersex people. It is suggested that any person at 15 years of age has the right to revise his or her gender into a national registry and that a child less than 15 years of age may be supported by his guardians have a change in the official registration of his generation. The decision to change the sex registration of a child should be taken with the guidance of its interests and should be in harmony with its will and the development of sexual consciousness. It is assumed that the change will not be dependent on any condition, but the current law would expect to set certain conditions, such as surgery, chemotherapy, hormone therapy, psychiatric therapy, or psychotherapy. In the context of the modified registry of a generation of candidates the right to change their name and these changes are allowed once, unless there are special reasons for this. Mr. President. It is suggested in the bill that passive registration of generations be allowed. That source includes recognition that not all individuals fall into bifocals of female and male gender. Officials and private members to be appointed by gender should assume an objective registration of gender and in passports to represent objective registration of gender by the letter X. It is also suggested that if the bill is accepted, the legislation should be taken at once, but it is required that persons who write sex have an 18-month period from the law's execution to fix registration forms, forms, forms, and so on. It is the reason that the bill calls for considerable changes in Iceland's registrations, and it is the Agency's assessment that it cannot adapt its activities to the standards of the bill in less recent times. What a remarkable change! I noticed as an amateur on this matter that the subject was asked in answer to the question show in the days, which is the title of the title, which is the first name we use for individuals who are neither he nor she. I was in my home, and I admit that I answered correctly. Of course, they are. But these men, I can't remember where they were, were in considerable trouble, and wondered. They then came with an answer that I don't remember which was right, or some good guess. It reminds us that this bill, if it is approved, as well as the states of Malta that have taken the lead in these matters, will translate largely into legislation for these people and put Iceland in the highest order, and I'll only be there to discuss what this means and what we have when talking about human rights. The bill assumes that those who are involved in the bill have access to the health services they need and that permanent changes in the genitals, gonads, or other sex characteristics of an individual 16 years of age and older have to be prohibited without any written agreement. The bill expects the continued operation of the National Hospital team, which is designed to provide clients with information and advice at the age of 18 and older. At the same time, the conduct of a informal team of specialists on BUGL, who have provided children who experience sexual abuse for the past few years, is suggested to be legalized. Furthermore, the order of the expert committee for a change in the sex registration of children is expected to decide whether to allow a child under 15 years of age to be authorized to change the official registration of his generation without the help of a guardian or if a guardian decides about the change. In addition, several laws related to the subject of the bill are proposed to legalize individuals with sexual problems, No. 57/2012, dropping out. Of course, these laws were a step in progress at the time, but hopefully this indicates a change in the way we think about people's rights, that we now talk about sexual self - control, not about people with problems. There is a tremendous change here in the use of words. A respectable president. It is important that a special consideration of the rights of children born with atypical gender characteristics is given. However, some of the factors involved need more attention, so it was my conclusion not to make a suggestion to make a specific basis for changes in the sexual characteristics of children born with atypical gender characteristics in this bill. However, it is suggested in the provisional principle of the bill that a minister should set up a group of personnel who will be assigned to create a bill for a change in sexual autonomy legislation, if this bill is accepted, as it is recommended for key reasons and rules that should apply in such cases. I think it is very important to ensure that in all the rights of the Intersex children, the health care providers are not at the same time unsure. Here a clear set of rules for the child's best interests must be established in the foreground and is the objective of the current legal diagnostic work to make sure that this is possible. In addition, it is assumed that the minister of a task force is appointed to discuss and make proposals for changes in other laws needed to ensure the rights of trans and Intersex people, including children's law, No. 76/2003, and assisted reproduction legislation and the use of human game cells and embryos for stem cell studies, No. 55/1996. Both groups will return their results and suggestions as soon as possible. However, I think it is very important that the Council complete this bill, even though we do not have all the work done and move on so that we can take this important step, which I think is a great requisition, and of course we must continue while the work is not finished. It's just a phase on that way. Mr. President. For a long time, Icelandic legislation on the issues of queer people was very prominent when we compared ourselves with other countries, but it has not followed the rapid trend in the affairs of the past few years, as reported in official international assessments. I mentioned the rainbow card earlier. For the most part, Icelandic legislation has not followed the trend in the affairs of trans and intersex people, including because there is still a need for diagnosis and medical treatment to get gender and name changed publicly. I mentioned the above legislation in Malta, from 2015 onward, about the right people to define their gender themselves, but it was one of the main causes of preparing this bill. Then Danir, Norwegians, and Sweden have changed their laws to help improve the status of trans and intersex people and have sent a resolution on the status of these individuals by the Council of the Council and provided recommendations on some measures to improve the position we take into account in the bill. There is a willingness to bring about similar legal refinements in this country. My ambition is that we can get Iceland back in the highest order when it comes to the affairs of gay people. I believe we have full business there, and I think and I hope that there is a broad political agreement on the legal rights listed in the bill and also that we will share in working on the remaining stages and are being proclaimed in a preliminary decision that I mentioned earlier during this term. I have already explained the fundamental factors of the bill, so after this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u70	Mr. President. First, I'd like to commend the highest. In many respects, prime minister is ambitious. The minister reviewed the matter well, and I'm not going to have very many words about it for the time being. However, I'd like to say that this is consistent with the United States Council policy, and I'd say that it was supported by the Parliamentary Party. Of course, the bill involves a great deal of legal compensation, and Iceland is expected to take the lead in sexual autonomy and the recognition of transtransmission. In a world where people are still being abused, mentally and physically, simply because they love someone or are in some way, it is important to set a good example. So I will gladly share in making this great step toward a more just and a better society. Of course, the self - determination rights of every human being to control one's life and body are fundamental rights that we must guarantee. In Iceland, there have been a number of important steps, especially as a result of the tireless struggle of such organizations as '78 and Trans Iceland. However, we must not forget that we still have a number of progressive steps, and the battle, of course, is never over. As we have even seen in our neighbors, there is always a danger of relapse. Even here in Iceland, we also see the possibility of being confined to the rights of minorities with a new bill about hate talk, so we need to be on guard all the time. In many lands the legal environment that guarantees the rights of queer people has been greatly improved without having enough to change society's attitudes. In the United States, however, attitudes toward queer people have changed in a few years, but the lawgiver may be a little slow, dragging his feet. Therefore, there are some things we need to improve in these matters. We must not lose our sense of urgency. In line with these steps that we will soon take, we will need to maintain our awareness and education in the seminary. But while this sexual self - control bill is good, it is not perfect. It guarantees e.g. not the necessary protection of children born with atypical gender characteristics. True, it is discussed in a preliminary requirement that a team be set up to discuss their issues so that the rights of these children will not be delayed. But I challenge the council to discuss the matter somewhat, at least. to set some deadlines for the committee. While it is true that it is spoken of as soon as possible, it has been shown that it can be a radical concept. I would have liked to see it more clearly. Mr. President. The basis for an open democracy is tolerance and respect for equality and human dignity. Although we're nowhere near the end of this fight, I think with this bill's approved, we're at least one step closer to a righteous society. I look forward to making more comments on this subject when it comes back from the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u71	Mr. President. It's a happy day. What a pleasure it is to stand in the public chair and celebrate the ambitious bill presented here, a bill that, when it becomes law, will bring in a tremendous significant compensation for the right of individuals to define their own sex! This will protect individuals' rights for physical immunity, more is hardly the case. This will put Iceland in the front row of this group of all gay people. It is time to do so, for all too long we have been left in such matters, and legalities have not been in any way in harmony with social situations and social understanding and are willing to do so. That's very good. This joyful situation is especially due to members of the Trans Iceland, Intersex Iceland, and the '78 Conspiracy who have been tireless in speaking for new attitudes in these journals. It is invaluable in the struggles of rights and for minorities to have such a powerful organization, powerful justices, not just for these minority groups, but for society all. These rights are not just for these individuals that they enjoy, although clearly most important, but for all Icelanders it is extremely important that we take this step. The matter has come out of government confidentiality. More than 30 envelopes were received there. I didn't go over all of them, but the ones I saw were positive and, at worst, neutral, they were sort of technical reviews, and that's totally great. There were a few things I would like to mention and to consider at work on this bill. This has been shown in the case of the Supreme Court. Prime Minister, then whisk. paritaprevir The Logi of Einarsson that what the bill may not do is to ensure the right of children to physical immunity. He's not protected in this bill. There are reasons, but this is a big issue because most physical immunity violations occur when individuals are still children. So it is a little difficult to say that we have achieved perfect results or good results until we finish it. This is important, too, when you consider that the United Nations Children's Protection Board, which supervises the implementation of the Children's Convention, directs recommendations to Member States to respect the physical privacy of the Intersex children, disappears from the implementation of medical unnecessary items in their bodies and respects their own rights of decision. The European Parliament has issued a recommendation for exactly the same factors, i.e. Intersex human rights, especially the physical immunity of children. The European Parliament now approved a resolution on the rights of the Intersex people and specifically encouraged the protection of children's physical immunity. So it's all at the same well. It is always the most emphasis on children, and it is not a coincidence. Therefore, you may wonder, " Is there any reason to look further, now that the Senate has the bill for treatment, if this case can be restored to a universal and educational committee? ' V.E.G. The prime minister reviewed it in his encore speech earlier, why the bill is finished, by setting provisional regulations and taking it out of parentheses and putting it into the hands of a team. The performance of the informal service group, the case on which this bill is based, was delayed due to a shift in opinion within the group on this law, the law on changes in the sexual characteristics of children born with atypical gender characteristics. It was not possible to achieve unity, but we are still talking about a few years of work. Then, according to experts'opinion, this point needs further attention. I have a complete understanding of the view expressed in the case of the highest court. Prime Minister, who prefers to take this matter forward and store the rest. The question is, What more can be considered? What can cause such a situation to become publicized in the work of this group? Isn't the General Information and Education Committee just as good a way to handle the situation? I doubt that in this opinion there is some information that has not been revealed in the last two years. It's just a matter of making a decision. So I hope that an General and Education Committee will consider the matter, and then, in a kind of case, I wonder, would this group not have to set a very clear time limit to not take another two, three years to finish it? That's one of the things I'd like to encourage a man. A top-of-the-art Board of Education to investigate. Another is what some reporters have missed from the bill, and I don't see that they added to the image they're coming in here, and that's the log. I don't understand why it's not legal in this bill. So there is no statistical evidence available here on the scope of these interventions. It would have to be noted that doctors and others who make permanent changes to the genital system, to the gonads, or to the other sex traits of children should keep a record of them. We're talking about the children, and it's not likely that this is related to the future work of the staff, yet it's such a big deal. I began to observe these matters seriously over two years ago, and this was one of the things that surprised me so surprisingly. This giant thing, this giant artifact in the lives of individuals, was not really worth keeping it strictly statistical. It's so amazing. The reason seems to be the classified case, which is, in effect, a ridiculous paradox in itself because the secrecy is maintained with the lack of available information. So I take my heart to the indications that those who make such permanent changes in sex organs, gonads, or other sexual traits of children should keep them in place and give surgeons yearly information about the intervention and the nature and age of those who undergo such changes. This is key. The reviews provide all kinds of suggestions for changing words, primarily for removing out - of - date vows, and for hearing and sensing that which is full of a desire for something to go through. There will probably be one of the best - known individuals that will be discussed in cooperation and cooperation with them. Then I'd like to talk about a system at the end. It's a review from Iceland's National Registry which, like the highest. The prime minister entered, even leading in. to postpone the party to adapt, thank you very much. Minister, from six months to 18 months, a significant change is required. [[Come on, come on, come on, come ……]] There's something to talk about, the nature of the case, changes in various laws, including human names. It is stated that there is only one change to be expected. A person can change his or her gender, using a name once. You wonder why that backup guy is. It's like it's done to make this fit the human name law. I strongly recommend that we take advantage of the opportunity and take that legal column and throw it up into the air and then get dissociated because those who own the names of individuals are themselves and others are not. Limitations of this will be removed. I am excited to see that conversation together during the treatment with the committee. As is the case today, a one - time change of gender can be done; however, more often, it needs to be reasoned. I can't understand it any other way than that it's a national file that takes sides with what I think is a little strange. I wonder, if men think that these restrictions need to be, who is it to decide whether the circumstances are such that they should be re-registered? Most of all, I'd like to see that stunner or that head disappear completely. I have very little faith in people playing with gender once a week or so. It was a collection of things I would like to see the committee, but there's probably something else. I'm once again giving such a big welcome to this bill. That is an invaluable act of justice. I'm proud that it has come to pass, and I give full support to the Council's Office on the matter, and I look forward to it, and we all do so at the council, sharing in bringing the matter to an end at the council's end.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u72	Mr. President. I thank them. Councilmen here tore up the case. First of all, I want to say that about the suggestion. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson says it's right to set time limits on those groups of work that will be appointed to me to join her. I don't think it's unnatural when it's dark. The General and Education Committee has reviewed the case that it proposes such a time limit. Then I'd like to mention what was here tore off the edge. paritaprevir Friðriksson Frirdiksson on the provisional principle for babies born with atypical sexual traits. You're absolutely right. A senator noted that these cases are not specifically recorded and that it may be part of the provisional principle to set any such rules while setting clear criteria for intervention. According to informal numbers that have been observed, e.g. in '78 the president of the Associations, born two to three children a year with atypical gender characteristics. However, this is not official registration, and it is completely normal to review from the Committee whether it is not correct to do so. The reason I took the stand not to make the arrangement as it was at some time introduced by the working group was that the concept of concept use was indistinguishable. It was said that treatment or intervention should be performed only if there were compelling reasons for it and that they lacked a definition of it. In order to give us time and explain these terms in as much agreement as possible, especially with health care professionals who thought that there was a measure of uncertainty about the health care professionals, we thought it was important to put the matter into practice and to get them out of the way and give us a little more time. Then he spoke up. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson only about this by changing the registration record more than once. I totally agree with what. Senator. I don't think there's anybody changing a generation for fun. But this may be so, because it requires no action, that someone has a sense of humor for it. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But we naturally feel that people in general are not doing this except once. However, the report on Article 7 shows this. that there may be special situations. We expect people to change it just once, i.e. Let's assume that, but you can, with a particular argument, want to change again. The reason we make that statement is that people, for example, can. In fact, fear for his life has come because it remains in lands where there is no recognition of racial neutrality. There are references to such events. I can say with what. Senator. I think, for example. not that this bill, will it be that the law I am very optimistic after this discussion, will cause people to change sex. That's not what it's about. The thought, however, was that it was really just what we expected, but that it would have to be defensive so that people could change that type of registration from some particular situation. Is a national record the right person? We thought it was all about the changed registrations. That's why this is suggested. I'm not going to extend the discussion any further. I just thank you. Congress members hold high hopes and hopes of the firm will that were presented here to end the matter at this council and to agree with the will. That's what my hopes are for, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u73	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to legalize Iceland's Federal Republic of Iceland, which suggests the establishment of a new total law on the Federal Bank of Iceland. The main changes involved in the bill are that it is suggested that the Council and the SEC be united, from now on financial monitoring will be carried out at the Bank of Iceland. These are proposed to change the control systems of the Federal Bank, including the World Trade Center. that three committees make decisions about the application rights of the Federal Bank on the matter of money policy, financial status, and financial control. With this bill, it's at the top. Financial and economic secretary to provide the bill for changing the law to a number of laws due to the unity of Iceland's Federal Bank and the Food Administration. Money policy, financial status, and financial monitoring have been very discussed in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis. In recent years, governments have been counseled by many experts on this subject. In March 2017, a special staff was appointed to reevaluate the framework of the money policy, and he returned his report in June 2018. It included 11 suggestions on the implementation of national eco-weapon, improved inflation targets, and the application of the management systems of the Federal Bank. With a report of the work group, there were four reports from foreign experts that had been offered to evaluate the above material. The Minister's Committee on Economic Affairs and Reorganization of the financial system took suggestions from the workgroup and also requested views from the Federal Bank and the SEC. The Minister's Committee concluded its decision in October 2018 to start a legal review on money policy, global response and financial surveillance. The decision was based, among other things, on the results of the above - mentioned task force on reviewing the framework of the financial policy, on the views of Iceland's World Bank and the SEC, and on the available reports of experts who have published various subjects and opportunities for improvement in money policy development and on national response and financial monitoring during the past year. As a result, the project management of this reexamination of the environment's legislation was organized. The work guide, as the Minister's Committee suggested, was building trust, transparency and efficiency in the economic management. The objective of the work was two: To maintain an inflation goal as the primary objective of the money policy and the independence of the Federal Bank and its Money Policy Committee to use control tools to achieve it, while also making appropriate changes that strengthen confidence and increase transparency. To combine Iceland's Secret Bank with the SEC to provide confidence and devotion to the implementation of national eco-efficiency and financial monitoring. Since the 2008 financial crisis, 11 years ago, there has been increased emphasis on reducing the structure of excessive financial risks, increasing its resistance and reducing the risk of one person's trauma to a systematic fault. These goals are part of a global economic policy that has grown in importance. The primary objective of national eco-efficiency is to maintain financial stability. National eco-efficiency monitoring of the entire financial system and the application of instruments to prevent systematic risks rather than risks in individual companies. Economic response is particularly important in small currency areas, considering how free international capital movements can edit conventional money policies as a tight spot. Thus, increasing interest differences from abroad can cause imbalances in financial and economic instability, as we know so well as we were here in 2008, when the Navy had really no control tools to master the growth trade other than the raising growth rate that went up to 18% at that time. The proposals of the experts whom the Icelandic government has received from financial collapse have been made to evaluate money policy, economic espionage, and financial surveillance, especially their controls, their interaction, and their systems, have been partly successful. Of course, it hasn't been that nothing happened here in the past ten years, and I'd like to mention a few of the changes that have been made. The implementation of national economists has been changed by the creation of a financial strategist and a system risk committee. The changes in financial monitoring have both taken into account common conditions in the European Economic Area and the activities involved in risk monitoring. System modifications have been made to the Management Board of the Federal Bank, including with the establishment of the financial and economic commissions and financial issues of the financial market, financial and economic services have been implemented. There is, however, no end to the reform of money policy, national economy, and financial monitoring, and in some cases, only in lengthy roads. As I mentioned earlier, the bill is suggested to be united in one institution by the Federal Bureau of Education and the SEC. The aim of a united organisation is to promote steady prices, financial stability, and stable and secure financial functions. Changes in the control ship associated with the institutions are being made. It is suggested that one vice - bank manager introduces issues involving each of the three main objectives of the Federal Bank. The current bank manager is responsible for the management and management of the Federal Bank as a whole, and he has a decision - making authority in all the affairs of the bank that are not entrusted to others. Three committees will make decisions on the use of specific authority from the bank, which is a financial conference, a financial Commission, and a financial committee. These committees are appointed from five to seven members, both members of the Federal Bank and external experts in the respective fields. The Board of Banks will monitor that the Council operates according to the current legislation. In bank councils, there will continue to be seven members elected by the General Assembly, as is now the arrangement. The changes proposed here are aimed at achieving the targets proposed to increase effectiveness, clarity of responsibility, to add administrative measures to decision-making, the use of information and the possibility of increasing the quality of the analysis and vision. So I put it in simple Icelandic, we believe that we will achieve greater cooperation by using these employees together to achieve the goals we would like to achieve in our small community. The bill assumes that the SEC will be submitted, as stated in a bill to correct the changes in various laws due to the cohesion of Iceland's Secret Bank and the UNECE that is being submitted to the General Assembly and the bill. However, the work of the FEC will remain restricted in the law, and it is assumed that the law on official financing will maintain its value. Therefore, the term "Family Control" will be maintained by law to ease and transparency of decisions relating to financial monitoring, but particularly in the setting of decision-making that has to do with official monitoring of financial activities, which will be heard under a financial committee, from other decisions made by the Federal Bank. This is also done by financing projects falling under official monitoring of financial operations, but they will continue to be financed by the pressures of monitoring costs on monitoring parties. So it is important that there are clear limits in the management system to also make sure that this will be used for the projects it is intended for. There's been strong evidence that there is a reason to link more closely the BankExchange Department of Economic Affairs. It was to form in a report by a staff group on reevaluation of the border of Iceland's money policy that I mentioned earlier. However, it did not examine the compatibility of basic safety watch and business care. It is now so remarkable that no one system of financial monitoring has proved to be unmistakably best in the world, hardly the two countries in the world that have exactly the same way. This is because there are no complete exports, and the benefits and defects of a full analysis are necessary in accordance with local circumstances. Iceland is a small country with a cohesive financial system where there can be a system hazard from more people than banks alone. Iceland operates on European rule projects where separation of surveillance projects between safety and business monitoring is complex. Therefore, we feel that it is difficult to address the activities of the FDA that are not connected with any kind of security and business control. As an explanation, the report on the review of money policy suggests that the Commission suggests that the UN will be split up, or that there will be a possibility of being examined, and the top-of-the-art department will be left behind, and the Union will be moved to the National Bank. We considered the possibility, and we simply thought that in our small community, it would be much more compatible with the fact that the SEC enters the Federal Bank, and we do not have clear, professional reasons for separating the Communists and the commercial authorities. Within Europe, only three of the 33 countries have chosen a two - towering organization, which separates business care into two institutions, as requested in a report on the review of money policy. In four other countries, there is a special financial check in an independent institution without being covered by commercial management. There is some evidence that financial markets will take several changes over the years because of the increased use of information technology. We're already seeing signs of a changed system like this. How to borrow and so on is available through technology. A new business model might be expected to be a course, in some cases contrary to the limits currently defined in a financial market. A large part of the UN's work is on the market, consistent with this trend. These include all kinds of employment protocols, assessments of management and management performance, assessments of active owners, field observations, protection against money theft, negotiations and rules, as well as standard support. So trading the Economic Guard according to markets would be a very extensive project and would result in predictable problems and an increase in cost. In addition, because of increasing emphasis on national response, the increase in the participation of financial surveillance over the past decade and the increase in the participation of cash banks in monitoring over the past ten years has not been fundamentally altered. The World Bank Fund, which for some time recommended a two - tower system in Iceland, changed its position to IV. last year's opinions came to the conclusion that because of the interaction between the banking market and the pension system, etc. Factors may be considered suitable for a job with a comprehensive financial monitoring within the Federal Bank. However, it has also been suggested that certain advantages follow the implementation of a comprehensive financial check in Iceland's Central Bank which needs to be examined more closely and, in some cases, resort to counter measures. At the shape of the organization at the Penitentiary Bank suggested in the bill, these factors have been looked forward to. This we do by striving to ensure the distribution of power in the organization as well as the rules of the bank's work could ensure adequate independence between these activities. As a result, a decision-to-be in charge of security matters is made by a financier and the Committee can only supply this power to the financial bank manager's underprivileged resources in matters that are not considered to be major. The bill suggests the development of changes designed to highlight the independence of the Federal Bank. Since the bat is an independent government agency, Ministers do not have general authority on the bank, but they have only the rights to which it is hidden in the law. For one thing, a minister orders the bank manager and the vice president and foreign committees of the bank's committees by a minister. A minister is also authorized to set details in the Regulation. Then a minister has the authority to demand any information and explanation needed to supervise and other judicial duties, such as 2 mg. 14th par. a law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. It is suggested that the law be canceled for banking advice to take command of the bank along with the minister. This does not really involve material change, for the current law cannot be determined by banking agencies, in fact, to take over the bank's administration, in which the work of the bank board is deemed in Article 28. current law. The minister is expected to ship the bank manager and three vice bank managers. It is suggested that their appointment will remain unchanged from the office of the bank manager and the vice president of the bank under current legislation, allowing them to be appointed to five years at the same time and that only the same man can be appointed twice in office. According to the bill, three members of the Committee for Ministers will discuss the qualifications of candidates and ministers will be followed by the administration of a committee's assessment procedure. It is suggested that the minister responsible for the economic and financial markets of a panel of qualifications, for the financial and financial status of the bank managers, and the subject, on the basis of the assessment of the applicant's qualifications as the most qualified candidate. In order to make the bank's instruments clear, structure, and responsibility, the bill suggested that the best decisions ever be made on three committees that hide the bank's decisions. These are the financial policy committees that make decisions on the use of the bank's funds companies, financial status committees that weigh system risks and make decisions on the use of governments that have financial stability and financial security control committees that make decisions relating to financial monitoring. Decisions in multi-organized committees contribute to professional and formality. In addition, external committees provide support and contribute to the making of more views during decision making. In this country, the Department of Money Policy has been acting by law on Iceland's Secret Bank since 2009. The World Risk Management Board and financing Council have also been working since 2014, and major decisions related to financial control have been taken away from the 1999 Economic Commission. Thus, the bill does not include a growing number of committees, speeches, and governments that now make the decisions involved, but their nature and organization change. According to the bill, the decisions made by the money policy committee are limited and the projects of the Committee remain unchanged from previous laws. The financial status committee, according to the bill, covers a number of projects entrusted to a system risk board and financial standards board. However, since financial status committees will be able to make decisions on the use of governments now responsible for the responsibility of the Federal Commission and the SEC, in some cases, although a minister's approval is not needed, no recommendation is needed to be made on these institutions at this time. In accordance with the bill, the FESEC shall make any decisions regarding financial control. This committee may assign the financial inspector to make decisions that are not considered major. The FEC shall set up regulations, as the Commission now does, and therefore can further define the decisions made by the Committee. Major decisions, for example, include a breakdown of employment, delinquency, and other burdensome decisions. Further work on the bank's projects is under the control of the bank. The bank manager will be chairman of all three committees, and backup bank managers each in his own area will become his surrogates. As with today's financial status committees, there will be two external members who will be assigned to three external bodies, and a financial committee will also make three external members. Mr. President. One of the main objectives of cohesion of the United Nations and the UN is to improve the use and access of information to carry out tasks entrusted to a joint organisation. In this bill and bill to legalize official monitoring of financial operations, currency legislation, and other specials, the information collection of Federal Bank and UNECE is being discussed. In a united organisation, there are no other restrictions on the flow of information within the Agency than those that result from guidelines on the activities of the Federal Bank and the limitations of laws and governments. Information that the S.I.A.L. gathers depends already on the access control that limits access to information to those who truly need it. The treatment of the combined data therefore depends on the limitations of the two institutions, but it is important that information flows are not hampered in the Agency. The bill suggests that changes in confidentiality should be made because of the unity of the Federal Bank and the SEC. Thus, it will apply to all members of the Federal Bank, and it will be suggested in the bill to a museum song submitted along with the bill that in the law on official control of financial operations and in the legal requirements of currency, the National Social Security Act of Iceland will be referred to. Mr. President. I'd like to state that the bill was conducted on the part of a project in the cooperation of the Ministry of Directors and the Ministry of Economics, where Benedikt Árnason, an expert at the Ministry of Presidency, was conducting work, but also came to the bill Áslaug the Árnadóttir'sdo, Tómas Brynjólfsson and Guðrún Þorleifsdóttir. Furthermore, the directors of Iceland and the Food Administration were closely consulted, as this issue is not only about the development of money policy but also about the unity of two institutions and the importance of having such harmony arranged. It is suggested that the law gains value on January 1, 2020. If this bill is completed so that the law in us is also proposed to be done in a special group of work to complete this cohesion work, so that it should be able to walk without proselytically and into effect on January 1, 2020. But in other respects, Mr. President, the bill will be after this discussion referred to a 2nd. ... andwhat. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u74	Mr. President. I was at a meeting here at the council in which this matter was introduced. I'm not saying that I've had a lot of doubts, but I asked questions. Now, the simple things are being made up, apparently, are being put down and united. On the other hand, this new institution will be a huge booth, as it was. It was said that at first it would probably be at least There's 300 people working there. As we know, institutions have rather tendens to swell out but to reduce over time, as well as to doubt about independent surveillance agencies, that it is absolutely wise to lay them down, to set them in my mind. Many people have felt that it was a big mistake at the time to put an end to national interests. We're going to disappear on a surveillance program, some of which are the FESE, and we're going to have a very big financial institution, and the question is, I want to ask you a question about the activities of this major agency, what surveillance is to follow up on it? If questions arise about the operations of the World Bank, should these employees who are already under financial supervision, who have become a department at the bank, answer that question? I'd like to know from the highest level. Prime Minister whether such doubts have never occurred to her personally.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u75	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. Yes, these doubts certainly did change me earlier in this process as I went over here, i.e. I believe that there is very strong evidence that financial stability and monitoring will be part of Iceland's Federal Bank. So I rejoiced when a review of the money policy committee, I think it promised, suggested that financial stability be one of the principal roles of the Federal Bank. In that eye, the SEC would be split up, and the part of the department that supervises financial stability would be transferred into the Federal Bank. When we considered the matter, took time to do so, I became convinced that it was not right for me to separate business practices from the SEC and the SEC, as I put it so much earlier, by expounding it on the SEC. I think more is involved because we have a large merged agency that has this central role in our economic policy. I don't know if 300 people are too much or too little. We have other major institutions, whether college or hospitals or whatever they are. This is what we can call our financial giant agency and I think it will be stronger than before. Who's gonna monitor this institution? Well, we need to take it to ourselves, Council of Churches, who selects the Council of Bank of Bank, which has the law under supervision of the Council of the United States by law, as the Board of Banks has been doing lately, just so I refer to more recent judges. Of course, there are post-requisitions at the Presidency and the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs in the financial markets. I think it's a question. The senator was very normal, and at the beginning of this process, she also turned to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u76	A respectable president. I thank you for those good answers from the highest. Prime Minister. That's right, this thing with a little bit of a call about not having very big things. Many people have felt that the zebra was already, like, a big, big, big house wrapped around one of the smallest coins in the world. Often, a person hears of his failure to do his work much worse when he was a drawer at the Bank of Lands. Now you hear that you will likely have to build two floors on top of the Navy bank so that he can handle this present role. When I began to ask myself more experienced and wiser men here at the council, or some of these concerns, I was told that ideas about the unity of these institutions were very high when men were reorganizing the law on the Secret Bank after the collapse. There were very few suggestions on this subject, but the proposals were not followed, primarily by heavyweightweight users of the highest category. Prime Minister, the then president of the sect was the minister of finance. For fun, you might ask yourself, " Could it be a sign of overwhelming power and the effect of left greener power that it is going into this now? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u77	Mr. President. You're absolutely right. A senator says that many foreign experts have suggested this. The reason not to be attacked at the 2009 revision of the Law is that I do not consider the power struggle of the local minister, Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir and Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, but I believe that men did not believe that there was a room to take on the big task at the time. There were then a number of very good changes in the S.I.A. legal environment, to form in terms of the order of the bank manager, order of the Administrative Committee, period of office, which I would like to maintain in this bill. Although some may feel that it is difficult to obtain qualified individuals who are willing to serve this office for ten years, I think it is very important that we do not have lifetime appointments for these jobs. So: No, I don't think it was a power struggle between them, because it didn't work that way. Certainly, it is not a sign of any power struggle between present administration parties. Rather, it is based primarily on professional reasoning that we want to follow. If I should answer that question. A senator with something special seems to me as prime minister, even more so, so I don't quite know if I can draw that conclusion. A senator draws. But it's not about that, it's just about some professional argument that I think is very strong. I understand the concern that this will be a big organization, but I also remind you that we are 350,000 people. How many organizations will we have to do this vital work? Or do we perhaps get more worth by uniting all these good, smart individuals in these two institutions into one institution?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u78	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Prime Minister for the extensive history of this important matter. The latening bank is certainly an institution that plays a key role in Icelandic society. Of course, there's a lot of talk every time the law on him is revised as a whole, as it happens here, that I don't talk about when it comes with a bigger set of institutions, I'll let me say - when it's time to unite the Navy bank and the F.O. Let me just say that the big thing about this is that power comes with responsibility. It's the way it goes with the Secret Bank that he's committed to a very important and broad, I allow myself to say, social power. There are no benefits of prices, in the sense of having greater and greater impact than the two interest sizes of the bank, i.e. On the one hand, the interest and the other go on. So it's very dramatic, or rather it can be, how the bank exploits its jobs and their policy. It was discussed in the answers to how the bank was being monitored. I want to say the bottom line. Minister, there is a great responsibility for members of the council who are destined to appoint men at the Council of the Office of the Bank. True, they must be very careful. It is considered whether the law of the Council of Banks is sufficient for them to provide sufficient space for the bank if I can put it that way in order to keep the bank under effective control. And also, I'd like to say, Mr. President, that I believe the General should have a bigger role in this relationship than now. In no way shall I minimize the supervision taking place in order to form by the appearance of the bank representatives. The Economic and Business Committee. Such meetings are a favorite form of television. Indeed, that has considerable advantages. But it's not for refusing, Mr. President, that it can also follow certain faults. This may mean that when a person is on television, he or she is not in the same range as in other situations, as is usually the case, that he is able to make a conversation. And, of course, there may be circumstances where there are a lot of material to dissect matters very deep and go to the bank's decisions and how he has handled matters in a different way than he does on the air, where representatives of six or after the events of eight councils may have only minutes in one or two traffic. Likewise, the bank's representative's natural speaking period is limited. Thus, you can see that it is possible to do better in these matters - and perhaps it must be done better, especially in the light of what I said before and allow myself to repeat, Mr. President, that the social power entrusted to the bank is so broad and so much and so dramatic, that it is absolutely necessary to comply with responsibility and to have a realistic and effective surveillance on the bank. I have that may not be a strong conviction for the unity of these two institutions as presented here. So that we could see a little of these institutions in the collapse. We saw to it how powerful financial institutions could go on in a way that in a sense they were able to influence the SEC in a way that in many cases did not result in old age, but the banks were able to buy out these employees. And when it comes to staff management, of course, it's difficult for an institution. And so you could continue to count. In fact, on occasion you have wondered if this activity of the UN could not be offered just to the European Economic Area. It's just a certain service. The banks are used to taking them out of foreign companies. They get visits from the food companies, Moody's and Standards & Poor's and what they're all now called. I'm not going to raise this as a direct suggestion, but I feel that this may be a thought of the problem we really are in - here mentioned that we are not just a small nation and all - we are keeping watch over banks, which is almost like a major business among larger nations. The problem is no less among small nations like ours. Then I have to say that I find it a little difficult to discuss the unity of these two institutions, so that they will be made up of this giant institution, which will have a very broad administrative responsibility in its relations with financial institutions. This is once so that we have recently been given the opportunity to see the appearance of certain offenders in the Federal Government of a certain legal entity, the Department of Pension Control, with very serious consequences. In fact, it would have been a wish for a law knowledge of the bank's supreme administration to be superior to at least interviews with some of them and public declarations seem to give reasons to believe. In this way, this new institution, a united Secret Bank and SEC, is entrusted with great authority. Of course, such power is very difficult. It is ill to think that such power will pass through its partners without adequate and realistic supervision of their jobs. I'm putting emphasis on this. V.E.G. At the end of his talk, a minister turned aside according to the demands of those hired to such an institution. That's a very big case. There must be a wide range of demands on those who choose to take the lead and key jobs in institutions such as the Secret Bank and the SEC. It must be realistic in an advertisement when you are called after you have a comprehensive knowledge of the language categories. It is not enough that, while you have very many advantages and much to apply, someone who even, if successful, may not have accurate knowledge of the nature of the situation. I'd also like to mention that there is a reason to keep surveillance and to criticize the position of the Federal Bank, such as all other institutions. Of course, that's not a problem. The bank's critical view of financial systems has attracted my attention and, in fact, amazed me for a long time. We are here with a completely special system of our budget, which is unknown nowhere in our part of the world, this home-made insurance insurance that was created out of need by the end of the 1970's. And that the bat with all its international connections and relationships with other banks, all this meeting with bankers in Basel, and constant cooperation and consultation, shouldn't have been the least incentive for us to be a part of a course in which we would be drawn out of this insurance mission? We only tape a year after a year and a decade in a system so completely different from what happens, and we walk that it has not been done to explain it to any man who comes here, whether he's an expert or a reporter - and when you're halfway there to explain it, it's just said to a man like the German journalist said to me: "If this was the way it was at my house, I'd have built a street building. So I have to let myself say that at first here, there's a chance to sing like this in general, free and bound, for 1st. about this bill on the Federal Bank, that it is, of course, not good enough for such an institution to go on as if it were a political force rather than a objective and neutral organization that deals with individual issues and cases of objective and critical thinking. But let me not say this to you in such a way. I just want to underline what may have been the point of what I've allowed myself to say here, that power comes with responsibility. The bank's surveillance role must be a major factor in growth, and it must be fully developed in all respects.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u79	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A fine review of this matter was made by the prime minister. In itself, I'm not going to have a big deal about the bill at this stage, but I'm glad it's done. I think it's a long time for us to take up such unity. I think that in a small community with as little financial support as we have in the international context, it is very important that we maintain the same level of monitoring that has been carried out by both the Shared Bank and the SEC as it has been. Not only do I know the potential for economic development but at the same time, more important, security and firmness in the monitoring it should take place, and, of course, create a simpler environment for commercial businesses, which is very important. It is important in this context to realize that a united financial watch and bank in this way is an enormously powerful institution with a very high responsibility for the economy's system of things to a shorter and longer time. Therefore, it is extremely important to achieve this cooperation, recruitment into a new institution, etc. Of course, it brings a little thought to what might be called monitoring, i.e. how we carry out the order of the Council of Bank, which will supervise this operation, as well as the Ministry of Presidency and Congress itself, according to events. It is noteworthy that when you read the bill, there are really no special requirements for bankers at the Board of Banks, except for the positions they must not perform at the time they are appointed to the Board of Banks. I think we need to consider that in the Senate treatment of the case. I think it is very normal to insist that the Council of Banks is not exactly, as has been often noted so far, politically ordered, regardless of the particular individual's qualifications for the important supervision that will be undertaken there. And in this context, I think that there is good reason for the council and the members of the Senate to examine very carefully the role of the bank council, whether it is highly defined or even too well defined to some extent in the bill as it says here. I think it is of utmost importance to an equally powerful institution that the conditions of the bank council and its roles and responsibilities are as well defined as the responsibilities and duties of the bank's key employees after this union. Of course, it would be possible to discuss some long - range issues about the development of the financial system and the development of money policy that may be unconcerned in this regard. In fact, in a little while, I think we're overdoing it, the decision to just go on with a private money policy on the basis of these laws. I'm sorry, I don't hide it. I think that many people have a negative view of the money policy we've been following in recent years with various topics, but we can say, but we haven't been able to create the needed stability. But I'm not going to spend much of my money on it. We discussed this during the winter council, and we are not concerned with the fact that today's government has no interest in dealing with that problem, and it is waiting for later hours, although we see very familiar dangers and problems associated with this money policy to arise in front of us at this time. The point, however, is to consider in the context of this matter, the very setting of the financial system itself. I would say that the financial system is living under considerable demands. It is, of course, that in all the measures and measures taken after a collapse, we have been trying to block the well that was last dropped, but as a result, we have made the preparations that we have a way too expensive and incompatible banking systems that do not really cover basic financial requirements, e.g. to provide loans for competitiveness. We only see in the Government White Book that the system has become too expensive, largely because of both the specific taxation and the specific requirements we make to financial institutions beyond our neighbors. That's what I think we'll be on the Committee, too, having to look at only when we go through this whole thing. To that I say once again: I'm glad that the case has come to pass. The Economic and Business Committee has received a specific introduction in this case with the message that it needs to be done quickly and well, but I think it also needs to be used for work and to make sure that we have a solid basis, especially about how we secure the role of the bank council and the monitoring of this enormously powerful institution we're setting up here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u80	President. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent, but she does not have much to do with it. Yet, I would like to have a place to say. A senator for a word about the same money policy and then pointed it out. A senator with whom we've had a discussion in the past winter at the council, where we were discussing a financial success report. Hv. A senator, if I correctly understood him, said that he was sorry that there were no changes to make when it came to money policy. Now I'm beginning to suspect that there's a why. A senator would refer to his ideas that we would pick up a coin other than an Icelandic crown. In fact, in the past winter, I felt a slight symptom in some people who participated in the discussion of various suggestions on money policy that we were not discussing the report, or at least some who participated in it, but just the wish that it was not yet discussed, that there was somehow to be another coin. In fact, it is said that the Office is not only allowed by the Minister's approval to declare the ambiguous aims of inflation, but also, by permission of the president: The National Bank is authorized by the Minister's approval to declare the objective of the Icelandic crown to foreign currency. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he cannot see in the bill listed here to change the emphasis on money policy, even though it may not be the emphasis. A senator believes that there is only a change in money policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u81	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. It is not surprising that I want to discuss money policy and changes in it. I'm a member of a category that approves of a currency that some outside of our beloved island would want to touch on and be a global currency. During the winter discussion of the changed order to money policy, it was keyly left outside the program. But that doesn't change the fact that I don't have any faith in the long - term gross currency we make. I believe that in 100 years of sovereignty, we have emptied all the reserves there is a possibility of using and some more than once, even more than twice. However, regarding the question of whether this was a change in money policy - if so. A senator wants to be in the hall to listen to the answer - that is not the case. I asked about this when the Economic and Business Committee received a premeditation on the case and found the answer that this warrant is present in the current penalty law on the Federal Bank. When I first held this sentence, I thought that it was possible to change, or expand, the devices that the Scrollman had into a money policy but was expressed that it was not, it was merely a warrant which is already in the law and make sure that they were in just one of the same articles, i.e. with regard to the steady prices or the absolute aims of inflation, and again some absolute objective or set of values. So this is no change from current law. It's only been moved, as far as I'm concerned, this warrant.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u82	Mr. President. I want to thank you at the beginning of my speech. Prehistoric prime minister and putting forth such a fine effort. I think it's very important, especially especially, as shown in the Supreme Court case. Prime Minister, following a report of the money conference committee and the tips there. They are addressed to many on the bill. There may be primarily one thing that I especially want to do about the discussion and the expected work at the moment. The Economic and Business Committee. Now that we combine these two institutions and actually move the FPA into the Federal Bank, the nature of the matter must be a pretty solid firewall between financial security in there and the traditional bank activity under which it has been established. It is important to maintain the credibility of this immensely important institution. I believe the harmony is very sensible, to create one strong organization in our small economy that handles these matters. But there can be no doubt about the other, that between the two key factors in this case are not easy transportation, let's say. As noted in a few cases a few years ago. Senators are very important to be careful with this case, and I'm prepared to assume that there is good work on a financial and business committee. The committee has an excellent time, right to spring, to finish this case and to seek the opinion that is needed. I trust each other. Named fine for that. As we have also seen, the case follows a large legal bill that can be called a bandorm according to what I understand, but it is a bandworm on a number of teams and needs to be followed. They make changes in 30 law columns. I look forward to dealing with this situation at a time. A committee who wanted to share these views.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u83	Mr. President. First, I want to celebrate the fact that we are about to begin a new overall legislation on Iceland's Federal Bank and the UN, although of course, various viewpoints are involved. I also want to thank you very much for the way it has been done. I think it's safe to say it's at least not very many examples of a Minister, in this case of prime minister, ensuring that consultation was done in such a thorough manner with the Commission committee to cover the mountain, in this case of the Economic and Business Committee, where a task force on the bill's contract has established two times, just before the bill was fully developed, and then at the time when it entered a government consultation mystery. I think that's an example for me. I think it's right to be thanked. It makes it easier for us who are sitting on the economy and business board. So even if it was only for that reason, it would be right to address 1st. And say, I would that there were many others that would receive the highest. The prime minister is exemplary in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u84	...go on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u85	Yeah, I use every chance I get. It is clear, however, that this is a vast bill. It's a bill that really matters, so I'm surprised that there are no more in the audience. There's only any senators here, except for the highest. President, and here comes one more officer of the board into the hall. It's fine. It's important when we talk about the same sizeable bill. Of course, we're in union with the Federal Bank and the SEC, walking through the bill unchanged, creating an amazingly powerful institution. The bill expects a measure of power distribution and an open process when it comes to making decisions that meet human anxieties, such as smaller ones, that always have a slightly faster heartbeat when institutions with vast power in Icelandic society are introduced. I think that what's going on in this regard is fine. I, however, glanced at the wording, which, unfortunately, were not too many. I just want to draw attention to the fact that on the one hand most people are aware that this is mainly taking a very successful step. The main concern may be to determine whether it is wise to unite the SEC and the Federal Bank in all respects and whether business management should operate independently and remain independent of the Penitentiary. Perhaps we can do so even more independent than have it in the Secret Bank to achieve, for example. Homing the target. I think it's a view that we're looking at on a financial and business committee that needs to be considered and evaluated. In recent years, I have spoken very extensively about the lack of clean work and the unity of the Navy and the SEC with a man and a mouse. I still feel that way, but I notice indications, including... From business agencies, financial companies, and the organizations of professional life, which may be the most critical of the narratives received. One of the factors that matter when we establish a new Secret Bank, I think it is safe to talk about, as it were, a new and powerful Sensitors, a prominent Secret Bank, to make sure that together the bank's governance systems work in such a way that it all works. In this regard, it is important that not one bank manager but three bank managers in the area of money, financial stability, and financial control. Of course, they will create an objection to the bank manager himself as well as to outsiders on various committees, such as financial espionage and money conferences. All this matters. The material discussion is conducted here after the work that awaits us on a financial and business committee, and then there is a set of steps to take in a detailed material discussion on the basis of the work being made up of the committee. I can't help it, finally pointing out that the appointment time for the current bank manager expires August 20th. The job of the bank manager has been advertised. It's about the highest. Prime Minister to appoint a qualified individual for the next five years, most likely ten years. This is not a minor decision, for even if we thus walk from law on the Federal Bank, the kind of person that we choose for this work is important. We are in some way reaching a future policy, not just in terms of money or economic matters, but in a tone of the type of government that will be fired in the coming years of the bank and whether government officials are expected to be moderate, moderate, and fair in their jobs. Therefore, it is important that we not only select someone with understanding and knowledge of economic matters but who has the ability to understand and perceive the impact of the bank's decisions on individual matters, whether in interest of interest or otherwise, on the everyday lives of individuals and businesses. It's important that we go to the office with a bank manager who not only has the opportunity to speak Iceland's language in foreign fields and to protect our interests, but also, I know the highest. The prime minister emphasizes, has the ability to discuss complex matters in a simple, understandable way, and content in general with the public about the money policy, about the Secret Bank, and, in addition, with understanding of everyone's role, regardless of the role of the bank. I can't help saying that it would be worse if a new bank manager had even participated in the business, starting and running a business. This may not be the requirement of a new bank manager, but I am convinced that little more is the understanding of people than having participated in a general labour market and even being involved in breaking new jobs. I'm glad the bill's out. I can't wait to deal with it on the Economic and Business Committee. I reiterate my gratitude to the project and to the Supreme Director. Prime Minister. It is exemplary in the way things were done and, as I told you earlier, helps us to do our afterlife.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u86	V.E.G. President. I wouldn't vote any more, I think, than to be able to agree with the last speaker, huh? paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, about most of what he said. True, it was nice to hear him advertise someone from the government position, and of course you got to get up here. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I can totally agree with him that I'm sure this preparatory work has been very good. So it happened that I was sitting as a lip count one of these promotional meetings that was held in the Economic and Business Committee on this matter. But because of the length of the process and the number of people that have already accomplished it, I must admit that the results really disappoint me. In particular, what marks what I'm talking about right now is a recent event and the recent meeting of a administrative and monitoring committee in which the current bank manager and bank manager were sitting. for answers. I have to admit that among the things that concerned me at that meeting, it was that the bank manager and the bank manager spoke completely of the situation there. You're absolutely right. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason noted earlier: It is important who appoints the office of the bank manager, who is extremely powerful. In itself, the bank manager has no manager except the highest authority. Prime Minister. I'm not saying it's bad. But the bank council is there merely to adviser and follow and bank manager - whoever it is, so that you don't think I'm harassing the person who is sitting right now -- just playing loose for ten years, or five, twice five. I'm a little worried about this. I also worry that there will be three vice presidents with him, and one is the one who's supposed to be keeping an eye on the Secret Bank itself. He's the manager of the bank. I don't see this rotten thing. I'm sorry. At this meeting that I was sitting on the Board and Control Committee the other day, this is exactly the point. It seemed that the role of the Federal Bureau of Economic Affairs, in part or in all, was at home in the Federal Bank. I'll be happy to admit that a few years ago I was on my own that the SEC should be inside the Secret Bank - to promote it, etc. But now, especially in the light of some of the events that have happened, I can't quite see how the SEC works, e.g. to monitor what happens in the Federal Bank itself. Then there's another one I notice. It's about to create a 300-man institution. I don't know if the staff of the U.S. Penitentiary are 300,000. I'm not sure. But that's the size ratio in between. This will be a huge organization of 300 people, with the largest government institutions, outside hospitals and stuff. There's supposed to be a lot of governments and advice. There will be seven bank councils and seven people on the money board, and all of this is to be an assistant bank manager or vice bank manager. I have to admit that, quickly, I don't quite see how all this equipment, this big machine, should be able to work ◯smagnably, as you say. Then, of all disappointments, the natural greatest disappointment. This bill here is a nonprofit policy - which has not worked since 1995. It's still to be extended. We're taking up all rights on the Bank of Iceland and we don't make any changes in money policy. What a disappointment! It's something like a dog. The Economic and Business Committee must be looking. She must also consider the warnings not only that I but also others have stated that the Federal Guard as a whole enters the Secret Bank. I really hope so, and I'm counting on it. The committee gives careful consideration to this matter. It was said earlier that she had plenty of time to do the work. I don't agree with that. It's half a month, this month at the council, and then May. They'll call for reviews and call for visitors, etc. I don't think this is much of a time for this work. I'm sorry, I don't see it. There may be one option, but I don't think this time is enough. This bill comes in here for 15 minutes to three, as you say, just before the deadline expires, so it doesn't have to be taken by variations. I would have preferred that this bill had been entered at the latest soon after a New Year's Eve. Men would thus have had a good time at the Committee to review it. And for this very brief period of time, the person here admits that he has not given out this bill. Rather, it's just the big things I listed now that I wanted to promote because I think they're really serious. So I'll witness again to my wonderful coal, last speaker, why. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kállson, he said, "It's really important how we choose as bank manager. That is exactly right, but those words crystallize what this work is, according to this bill, enormously powerful. In itself, it would have been possible to say that the bank council role was changed, so that there would be some government to which the bank manager answered because recent events must be acknowledged to the highest level. Like a hot potato, the prime minister and the Society's bank council have thrown between them. Neither has been stopped and held for a long time. Then you say, "Are we in the same situation? Are we expecting this to go on? If something happens - of course, we don't want it to happen - how on the bank council or the manager of the prospective bank manager, who is the vice president of the SEC, to be able to wave some feds for a moment? As far as I can see, we're with the same OCEAN vision. We have the same structure. Again, I say that I am deeply disappointed and deeply worried. Although it's boring to be negative, you sometimes have to be negative, especially because, as I say, you've probably done a lot of work in this document and all the preparations. I just ask, " What were men doing all this time if these matters were to be taken up in whole terms of criticism? ' Has the money policy been introduced? Not only have there been criticism of the money policy, both from highly respected economists and some generals, but it has been pointed out the need to expand and increase the information, the resources the bank might have in order that economics are in the more economic situation than they have ever been. I still insist, so I just mention one decision, that when I said from that chair in 2015 that it should reduce the control interest by 2% there and then I am quite convinced that history from that time to day dato has told us that it had been the right decision. It was at the last big bargain. But now, four years later, with the same percentage of control rate as she was before 2015's last bargains, she beats her breasts. I think most people would agree that interest here is at the root of a lot of evil. It is not surprising that the most powerful part of the labor movement has come up to negotiate now and that the government is to change interest here, to take out the price insurance, anyway. Everyone sees that if there's a substantial decrease in interest, it would allow companies to pay higher wages because they're killing companies as well as the public with interest. And I think it has even been shown, perhaps not directly but indirectly, that by reducing interest here, more modest demands could be made on the labor movement. The general public is as pitiable as anyone else because of the interest factor involved here. If we're going to find a similar trail, I think it's only near the dock in New York, where people have ball hammers in their pocket and loan people under the table. But in civilized society this growth level cannot be found. Nowhere I know about, anyways, near us. It's these things that I'm giving a lot of notice about this bill and that I'm disappointed in. I sure hope so. A financial and business committee made good use of the time she's getting. I hope indeed, too, for I do not doubt that the committee will listen and take it into account. This bill's approval is naturally important to a long future, and I just don't see that we're putting up with the same money policy five or two times five years into the future. I'm not quite seeing it yet. I just hope that the committee will take this matter very seriously and be very careful with it and that we will get a better bill in here after the committee has handled it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u87	President. Thank you. A senator's speech he gave here. It's a pleasure to hear that. A senator finds it boring to be negative. I'm even thinking about helping him to have more fun, helping him to be a little more positive about this bill. I came up here where it was. A senator spoke of a meeting at the moment. Board of Directors and Control Committee. There were ways that I could not understand better than that even I could have had. A senator to change his mind or at least to think differently about these things. I also sat this meeting, and I couldn't understand the guests at that meeting differently, when it came to this bill, but that there was a lot of speculation and a warning that it would be done like this or gay and that it would need to be taken care of this and the other things together. She's a big one. No matter where people would see this, they would also be very positive in parks, with special features, even to the count of the eve of the eve of an end. That, in turn, would be a great measure of caution and a wall of restoration between individual departments would be able to measure the weightier defects. That's what I'm talking about. A senator disagrees with me about this interpretation - all in a more positive way than his negative interpretation? Because he finds negative, there is now a chance that he could have a little fun.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u88	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna do what. A senator disappointed in the fact that I still have the same negative attitude as before he started his case. But I thank him very much for the counter, which was very good. Sure, we had the same meeting. It's just like when people witness a crime, they don't usually tell the same story if they're more than one or two. I couldn't better hear those who came to this committee meeting than that they were in themselves in a very similar place, and I've been myself, that they had been swinging. I admitted earlier that I had certainly been swinging. Yes, indeed, very much, as I said at the outset, I felt that it was not only good but even necessary to get SEC in there. But for further thought - so I don't talk about after what's been going on right now around the Secret Bank, which I honestly find to be quite serious. I have to admit it. That is why I also feel gravely committed to the fact that only a few humans are committed to great power. They go on a journey that they are repeatedly warned of by the fittest. But in the strength of having that power, they continue. And God knows where, for example. the case that was discussed the other day in the management and monitoring committee end up. Does this end up in gross damage charges against the State? We don't know yet. I hope it won't be. But that doesn't make any difference to me about the seriousness of the situation. By means of all the power humans had, they could act like this. Also, if financial monitoring is added, natural sources and increased power are also being obtained from time to time. [[The president calls.]] So I'm still just as negative, Mr. President, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u89	President. I'm not going to be such a wise guy to be able to turn negative. A two - minute - a - minute - answer - I was not necessarily thinking positively. An important candidate, though important, maintains the positive that could be heard at meetings. Administrative and surveillance committee, which is what happens. A senator came in. [[You're powerful.]] I couldn't understand him here in his speech, as if he, as confirmed in answer, but that even there had been a reversal of his stand and he had been shocked. Today, meetings that are open are simply possible to watch. We do not have to wonder if there was a positive attitude there or not. It will likely provide a review of the bill in case of an issue. Named. Even so, I wanted to draw it up here because I felt that it was a struggle for me to do so. A senator's view of the view that it presented was completely negative. I specifically asked about the bill at the requested meeting whole, if everything was to be taken care of, all the warnings there, whether it was a good step or not. I could not understand the answers different from that, at least for the guests, the willingness to take this step if - again -- all precautions, firewalls, resurrected, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u90	V.E.G. President. You're right. A senator says, it's so good at an open meeting that then the whole thing is on a rope. It would be worth one Mass that me and my friends would just sit down and watch the meeting again to recall the experience. [[Up front.]] I reiterate that I felt at the words of a few people there, as I said before, that they were in a place like me, they were kind of sitting on a fence, and they were a little wondering about this. Yes, they would have been positive that this would be done. This would be a source of strength, just as I said earlier, but then they might have cooled off only as they traveled and drew close to this meeting. Without me saying that my experience in this meeting is better than that. Still, the senator was what I felt about hearing all these encounters with people who came there, that there were skeptics there to carry out this union, as this is assumed. Perhaps we should balance it out just by sitting with some pop and soda or lobster soup, which would be on the house then, and going over this matter again. [[Lobster soup.]] But seriously, that's how I think this is the big step we're taking, and it's got a long footprint and a long way into the future that I think we have to be careful as much as possible with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u91	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend the discussion much, but I'd like to thank them. Councilmen here have spoken. A red thread can be traced through the word of all of them, i.e. Yeah. Councilmen express concern that this should not lead to overcompression of power. I agree with that view. Therefore, we make a very clear distinction between the three different stings of the bank. We also place increased emphasis on transparency in the activities of the Federal Bank. It has been said of the practice of gambling banks that depositors are much better the fewer people who understand them. That's the logic of the past. Secular banks are to operate in a clear direction. Sentencing banks are supposed to have a conversation with the public about money policy, financial status, on their legal role. And part of what we do are these changed tactics, which I think work against exactly what we're doing. Councilmen are concerned about, which is too much to add to power. According to that, I can agree with what has been said here. I think, for example. At the right time. The Economic and Business Committee, which has had an open meeting with a money policy committee, should also have open meetings with a financier committee and that the Committee can also have closed meetings if more convenient to discuss individual topics. Of course, this is one of the most important tasks. The Economic and Business Committee here at the council. A few of them. Councilmen have specifically discussed the orders of the bank council. We do not place any special qualifications on those chosen by the Council of Banks. Rather, we place confidence in the council that it depends on choosing a good bank council to fulfill the role it is intended to perform, which is to monitor the function of the bank. I myself do not necessarily believe that it would be best to have, for example. Seven economists to the bank. It may be very good to have economists, and it may be very good to have lawyers. In the current banking board, a systems analyst may not be a bad idea when we see all the technological changes that are taking place in the financial world, in payment services, and so forth. But to have said this, that we cannot necessarily determine in the law what education is most important to having in the bank council, the responsibility of the General Assembly is, of course, great in choosing a bank council that meets the role of monitoring the legality of the Council. I must say that in the light of words why. Sæmundsson And now I'm celebrating his date. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé has decided here tonight - but he made a comment on the subject that was being discussed at an open meeting of the moment. The Commission and the Commission, that is why I requested a report from the bank council. I've got that report. As a result, I have requested more information from the Federal Bank, so the name potato is not traveling between me and the Board of Banks. The Board of Banks has finished its work and has produced its report. It revealed much, as I'm sure we would have. A senator agrees, and as a result, I have requested further information from the National Bank on details of this report and how the bank will follow closely what the bank will suggest until then. If we follow the law and, at the same time, have said it, it is important that we perform it in this way, I believe this will fulfill the conditions as well. A senator mentions. Hv. Councilmen have considered only the decision to suggest that the SEC completes its entry into the Federal Bank. It has been suggested that certain cases are found in the Secret Bank, i.e. The government's loan, hailing the SEC. Then, first of all, I'd like to say that it is, of course, the financial Ministry's decision at any given time where the government's loans are at home, but at the same time it is considered fairly detailed in a report that at the development of its organization on the Secret Bank proposed on the bill, these factors, of course, have been observed, of course. building these firewalls, identifying the role of the vice bank manager of each field. They sought, as is said here, to ensure the distribution of power in the organization, which, in addition to the rules of the bank's work, could ensure adequate independence between these activities. In this way a decision to monitor matters is made entirely by a financial Commission and can only be given the authority to the financial security bank manager on matters that are considered to be unsupervised. So we believe it's quite clear in the law. Also, we'd like to point out that after challenging the idea, as I mentioned earlier, that separateing the activities of the SEC into private care and business care was our firm belief that we would actually lose a measure of harmony to have these factors together. With this party, we feel that we are building specific firewalls. I totally understand why. Senators here who are concerned that the Agency has become big, big, but at the same time I think we're getting much more out of a united institution. It would not have been successful to tear down the FDA, unite parts of it into the Huns Bank, and leave business departments alone. I think we have this opportunity to ensure a certain distribution of power. I believe we have the opportunity to create a much greater transparency around the decisions made in economic and money policy. I hear the disappointments of some people. Councilmen who come from different directions show that we are based on the money policy that has been in the past few years, and as a result, I thank you for my words. Chairman of the Economic and Business Committee. We've tried hard to get into this process. I realize that this has been working relatively fast, but I'm not sure that fast is necessarily bad. Fast can only be good as long as people take enough time to do what is right. And I believe that the council and the committee will have plenty of time to take care of the situation and take care of it with the strength needed to get it done before Congress ends. Various people have also discussed the big decision that is faced by the order of a new bank manager. I'm not gonna discuss it here. I just want to say, as I said earlier in my speech, that it was a very positive step taken ten years ago when a panel of professionals made specific suggestions for a minister on the order of the bank manager. At the same time, it can be a difficult cup for anyone serving as minister to choose between qualified individuals. I think it's very important that there's also a good job there. I want to reiterate it, because people only discuss the time difference, that the appointment period for the bank manager expires in August, but these laws go into effect, if they become law in us, on January 1, 2020, that it is, of course, that all who apply for this office are fully aware of the changes in the water and are fully aware of the site beyond the union. That's what I want to thank you for. Councilmen for good comments and many individuals who were very understandable in big matters, but they also relied on trouble. A financial and business committee is taking the time they need to be careful. Hopefully, we have made a success of the presentation that has already been made, and we are, of course, ready to have a conversation with the committee at the late stage of this case about anything that may arise.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u92	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to compromise the law on various laws because of the integration of Iceland's Federal Bank and the SEC. The bill suggests a change to a total of 30 laws. These are the necessary changes because of the cohesion of Iceland's Secret Bank and the SEC and the new organisation proposed to support the activities of a united organisation in the prime network for new overall legislation on Iceland's Federal Bank. Of these 30 laws, 27 of which are the financial and economic guardians, 25 of whom are the main policy on the work of the UN and two that discuss the work of the Bank of the United States, which is under the custody of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs. There are three of these laws on the custody of other schemes, which are the Department of Employment and Development in the case of Cities, the Ministry of Health in the case of a law on housing and the Ministry of Justice in the case of legal action against the financial and terrorist finance. Let me now consider some of the key elements of the bill. First, it is suggested that the law on official financial control maintains as a general fundamental law on this subject, while at the same time making changes in their goals and making them more modern. Among other things, it is suggested that monitoring of the surveillance providers should reduce the risk that their activities will harm the general public, while maintaining healthy and stable operating is always responsible for the responsibility of the operators of the relevant enterprise. It is suggested that financial surveillance be part of the UN Bank project, although the term "Second Affairs " will remain a legal concept. Is this done for various purposes, which are carefully attributed to the bill, but I would like to say here that by maintaining the term the operation within the Federal Bank that will supervise financial activities will be set aside from other bank projects, including money policy, financial stability, and public money banking. This is important for several reasons, including The financial control projects are funded by a special payment on the surveillance party. Secondly, minor changes in the pay-off laws are proposed in official financial control. It is suggested that, in place of the Department of Economic Affairs for the present time, the bank be committed to the provision of a financial fee. It is also suggested that the bank be held in its account to ensure financial separation from the bank's other functions of public surveillance. This means that unchanged arrangements are expected to be made on the funding of official financing of financial operations and that the Sentennial Council of C-part State Fund will receive funds from Part A of the State Fund. Third, the role of financial standards is proposed to be adjusted to be partialized. It is suggested that, on the other hand, the Council will be published primarily on financial status, but it will also be assigned to evaluate the results of the use of national language instruments. It is then suggested that the charge manager be instructed to inform a minister, without delay, that any of these circumstances arise as a threat to financial stability. In addition, a system risk board is proposed to be submitted. Is it because it is part of a changed organization, that the activity now being carried out in the field of this committee will continue to be carried out by a united organisation and at the financial standards of the Commission. Fourth, there are changes in financial law. On one hand, it is suggested that the surveillance of financial funds companies will be transferred from the U.S. Penitentiary to the financial law. The transfer takes into account international minimum conditions for cash control, both the Basel criteria and the change in European legislation following the financial crisis. The transfer has even been made. ensuing that, instead of using credit institutions that do not comply with the rules for free money money, on the basis of the law on the Federal Bank of Iceland, the bank will be able to demand benefits and pay perfunctory pluncation according to the law on public financial control and take on various authority documents according to the financial law. However, changes to the requirements for autoimbursement are proposed, i.e. oscillating address, adding to the system risk and improving the systematic importance of financial companies, in the event that their application published the Council on that administrative directive. In accordance with local law, the F.I.A. will take government decisions on how these will use them to further the proposals of financial espionage. The use of autoimpliment is always the same for the same type of enterprise, or group of enterprises, and, therefore, it is considered normal to have rules about it. Finally it is suggested that the application of autoimpliment for risk over 3% will be subject to financial and economic confirmations. On the application of an increase of more than 3%, only in exceptional circumstances, as well as in the case of application, there is an obligation to implement a specific reporting process, including to European financial security agencies. Fifth is the proposed change of land loan law to consumers. They're saying that when the Council makes rules on the peak price ratios for real estate loans and the maximum total estate loans or its payments, financial status committees should discuss and agree to it. In addition, financial and economic ministers are suggested to confirm the rules. In the current law, the SEC has a comparable rules of passing on opinions from financial standards. sixthly, a change in currency law is proposed to allow Iceland's Federal Bank to be authorized, to obtain a minister's confirmation, and to allow the approval of the financing committee, to provide loans on loans related to foreign currency to non-employment costs. In the current U.S. National Institutes, the bank has this warrant to the opinion of a financial arena. Changes in other tracks, i.e. in the 24 laws that I have not already mentioned, are minor, and lead all of them to the new organization for a united organisation proposed in a bill to a new overall song on Iceland's Secret Bank. Most of the changes are about to be made by a united agency to bear the word "Sendlabanki of Iceland, " so it will be published in the Navy bank's name and contracts made in his name. There are also regulations on the work of the Management Board, which will no longer exist when a new organization has taken effect. Finally, I'd like to say that the bill is proposed to be held at the same time as the prime minister's bill to a new overall song on Iceland's Secret Bank, i.e. 1st January 2020 At the same time, it is suggested that the SEC be submitted as a special agency and brought to the Federal Bank. provision suggests that the workers of the FDA move to the Federal Bureau of Justice in the office of law and that the bank handles the employment contracts that apply to them. At the same time, the office of the head of the FDA will be shut down, but financial and economic secretary will be authorized to transfer the current director to a new office of the financial bank manager in the Federal Bank. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to the Economic and Business Committee and 2nd. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u93	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the change in income tax laws and the tax payment laws on capital income, which we call taxation income of the author's rights. The subject of the bill can include In the covenant of the judges of the government, and of the office of the council, where also they shall come. in the declaration that there will be a change in taxation in the language of music, Icelandic literature, and the media. At the same time, it is stated that authors who have accepted an organization of rights should be taxed as property income. With this bill, a step is taken in accordance with the declaration of policy, and it is suggested that the pay be paid to authors and/or other persons entitled by established courts under authors' law become tax collections instead of remuneration. This is in accordance with current guidelines for the taxation of capital gains. At the same time, the tax system of these payments is suggested as a standard payment. By doing so, tax collections will be in accordance with the principles that apply to paying tax from capital income as well as to be safer and more efficient. A respectable president. I suppose to mention that although this was referred to the government covenant, this idea has, of course, been repeated over the years, and it is not born at the conventions of government, but is rooted in years of conversation with those who have used mostly in the hands of those who have made money because of authors and who have been called upon to make changes in taxation. The contribution of composers and lyric authors to the journals was a factor, and for a long time the presentation was not to be of any relevance to the concept of fiction or woodwork. Many people have heard of this, and it has often been said that it should not matter when the taxation of authors of various creations has been discussed. Thus it can be said that the preparations for this relief of the taxation of ideals discussed here have been made in my previous Ministry of Ministership, that the preparation has been accomplished in recent years. I have to say, while the contemporanity was quite long, it is finally time to propose this proposal for the council. I hope, of course, that we can get together on the basic ideas listed here, that there is not a reason to treat the income currents below as any other pay or other income that fit into the income tax subsidies, for in many cases it is an observation of where tax stocks live in the tax policy. Some would say that this is a fairly progressive proposal, especially when compared with a tax project in principal control countries, but it is now perfectly acceptable to be progressive in the tax court. I would like to know that while the matter was being handled in a court of agreement, there were comments that might well have been made. that the definition found in the bill and the limitation of this is based on the payment paid by the established rights organisation. And it is a matter of concern during concredulous treatment whether the definition there has been born, put into practice, helps to achieve a fundamental purpose. It may be said that this is an effort to explain fully the type of payment involved, but from the perspective of the tax authorities, including the taxpayer's pay. Under observation, it may be a matter of opinion when it is not completely clear that the funds are from the source that the established rights have been involved with them. I realize this is an opinion. It can then be assumed that the change in taxation of taxes to authors and/or other persons represented in the bill will have a negative impact on the income of the state's budget, where the decrease in income taxes and insurance fees will be greater than the increase in income revenues tax. We will see that rural society is due to the expansion of the current payments. It is estimated that the state's net - income loss is about 30 million. K. ... buta countrymatelostover 80 million. K. every year. A respectable president. According to this, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u94	Mr. President. I know this case. This has long been the struggle of many of those who have their sustenance under the rights of authors. I've written about this subject before and participated in organizations and conversations to implement it. That's why I'm happy to see it. I was also delighted to hear the highest understanding. The secretary of finance puts the thought behind this and the meaning of this bill, as shown in his introduction. However, what I was worried about as I read the bill was that it is always spoken of as one of the established writers' organizations. We know such an organization, for example. Such organizations as STEF are first listed in this article. But when it comes to literature, there is usually no collection of any body of justice. Rather, it goes directly between those who want to take advantage of the work. We have considered that although authors in our small community are generally not very poor, some kind of savings in their work would produce a little bit of money, and then it happens from time to time that there is a profit from this fund. Any magazine, theater, tradition, would like to publish, or publish, and so little money is made. We think that if you have a poem in a book and it's published and you get your income, it should be quite equivalent to making money from some thousands of dollars you have in a savings book. I'm really worried about this. This won't reach our authors' income. And we who are prepared to take a copy of the publication have already been very disappointed in the government's decision to cancel his promise to cancel worth tax on books. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u95	A respectable president. I thank you for this indication that there are examples of those who are entitled to not fit into the bill's main thoughts that it is recognized to an overall organization that is responsible for collecting and returning documents of credit. I expect this point to be done better in the Committee's work and to offer all practical assistance from the Ministry of finance to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u96	Thanks for the answer. I am pleased to learn that the minister of finance is fully interested in listening to reasons in this matter. I can well understand that some of the users of this machine may not have known that, for example, even if they did not. Well, musicians I think they've had a bit of a lead in this matter now get most of their money through this organization, whether it's STEF or IHM or Polyis or whatever they're called, that's not relevant to authors at all. This points to the Writing Authorship, which makes agreements for authors, but afterward there are no financial communications that go through it. If men like me say them at theaters, magazines, radio stations, producers, or bookmakers, that is an intermediate contract between the author and the writer. At the end, I mentioned that we authors had been very disappointed by the decision to cancel the value tax from books. This has long been our main struggle. We lived in it for some years, which was a very good time in many respects, since it was not that tax on books. Then it was decided to cancel the promise from the government covenant, a promise that had come to light before the last election that there was more to the council. True, it was decided that the publishers would be handed some duet, some money from a government fund. It's like if sailors had been fighting for some chicken business for a long time and then they got the promise that it would be fixed and that they would get their own approval, but then they would be told that it was over, but they might be happy, though they might have been happy, because the government fund had decided to give their dedicated man a brand-new Range Rover.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u97	A respectable president. We will continue to examine this with the writer's position in this bill. But with regard to publication, it was a central point in all thinking of worth taxation or other ways to discriminate the publication of Icelandic publication. It's the core. Hv. A senator stresses that it would have been best to eliminate a worthy tax from books, but the nature of the added tax is such that it is not certain that the writers themselves would have benefited. The question, then, is whether a book sale would have been embezzled in the country. Then we would have had the place of colporteurs, all of those who were offering books, after magazine incidents, for sale, were in the respect of the tax system with one foot, not the other. The listed products would not be in the VAT, but the entire operation would be in there, e.g. ... allconcerns for the business. It's an arrangement that seems most unfortunate when a valuable tax system is held out. Hence, it was emphasized that there is another way to ensure that the publication itself, the publication of Icelandic Writing, would be supported as if it were in terms of the tax infringement that had been proposed as a worthy supplementary tax export. I think the main thing is to look for it, watch how it works, and be ready to make changes if we don't reach our goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u98	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the insurance policy. The bill will be part of the European Union Directive No. 2016/97, the distribution of insurance, led to law in this country. First of all, the distribution of insurance involves a business that involves giving advice on a insurance contract, making a suggestion about it, or making the contract. The distribution is also to assist in the management or implementation of the contract. Second, the distribution of insurance insurance is to provide information on insurance contracts on the website according to the criteria selected by a customer, also making a summary of existing insurance schemes, prices, comparisons, or discounts if a customer can make a insurance agreement on the website. Distribution agents are insurance companies, insurance insurance companies, insurance insurance companies, and others sharing insurance as a secondary product. The bill contains regulations for the informed distribution. In addition, insurance-related investment products are regulations. The main newcomers in the bill are as follows: The DMV should be informed about certain details so that there are no conflicts in interest that can reduce confidence in the distribution and to ensure transparency to the customer. In order to accomplish this, insurance servers should include provide information on whether he has an active stakeholder in the insurance company or if a insurance company is taking an active share in the insurance service. In this case, the DS should be informed whether counselling is offered objectively and in accordance with need-to-care analyses. The DS will also be informed whether or not he is a contract insurance company. Second, information-related updates are due to the distribution of insurance and are far more detailed information bound to the current law and to the current law. The form of the remuneration should be informed. Third, here are the requirements for a need analysis to determine the needs of a customer and provide information based on the need. The directive is given to ensure that information is neutral. The need for analysis takes into account the quality of the insurance that is being presented, and in the case of complex insurance insurance, the need for analysis should be more detailed. A customer should always be informed about why certain insurance will be more suitable for him than for others. Next, I'd like to mention that the format for information is far more detailed than in the current law and shall provide information on paper or any other permanent medium. It is assumed that information can be provided on the dispersible website if the customer agrees to do so. Also, there is a new law on insurance that is offered as part of a package or as part of a contract. The requirement is to provide information on whether to buy the products separately and to provide information on each product separately, as well as costs of separation. It also serves as a new recommendation to provide information on damage insurance. This should be done according to the bill on a standard standard information document and is detailed in the format and content of the information document. Then, in the bill, it is obliged to have a product development process when new insurance schemes are developed or significant changes made in existing insurance. Such product development procedures should include have defined the target population for the health insurance and should be weighed against special risks relevant to the target population. There is a suggestion that a new chapter will be in the law on insurance-related investment products. Life insurance-related investment products are risks and collection insurance with investment risks. The section contains provisions to ensure that distribution agents have documented ways of preventing conflicting interests. The potential conflict of interest should also be identified and informed by a customer if it is not possible to ensure its best interests. Special information is about the need for a customer's analysis. He should be informed whether he will receive regular analysis, possible investment routes, and costs and expenses for the product. Information should be provided in a specific format so that a customer can understand the total cost and the resulting effect on the production of the investment. A customer should be able to understand the nature and risks of the product so that he can make an informed decision about the investment. The manufacturer should then provide information on the knowledge and experience of a customer to investigate his/her ability to take on the loss and to recommend a suitable product. Finally, the bill is presented with a commission for the UN to lay down government fines. The bill contains an obligation to establish a ruling committee for the distribution of insurance insurance so that problems can be raised over rights and related customers. A respectable president. The primary objective of the bill is to increase consumer protection with increasing and consistent demand for the information of the distribution provider. The requirements are longer than current demands, but the costs of meeting the demands are not considered to be substantial. The bill includes increased responsibilities on the FDA that have long-term evaluated them. According to the plan, the bill is not expected to have any anticipated changes in income or financial expenses from the Commission. It is not expected that legalization of the bill will have a financial impact on financial funds. A respectable president. I suggest that this bill be referred to the Economic and Business Committee and 2nd. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-04-01-87.u99	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the distribution of insurance. The bill will be part of the European Union Directive No. 2016/97, the distribution of insurance, led to law in this country. First of all, the distribution of insurance involves a business that involves giving advice on a insurance policy, a proposal, or a contract. The distribution is also to assist in the management and implementation of the agreement. Second, the distribution of insurance insurance is to provide information on an insurance policy contract on a website based on a client's standards. Also, the distribution of insurance insurance is to make a summary of insurance that is available along with prices, comparisons, or discounts if a customer has made a insurance policy on the website. Distribution agents are insurance companies, insurance companies, insurance insurance companies and people spreading insurance insurance as a secondary product. The bill contains measures that have to do with the distribution activity. The bill contains regulations on the work permit of insurance companies and their free flow of services in the European Economic Areas. There are also regulations on the registration and financial requirements of distribution organisations other than insurance companies, as well as on the requirements and abilities of the distributor. The bill suggests the removal of the law on the sharing of insurance. The main newcomers proposed in the bill are: The bill applies to insurance and insurance servers as well as to insurance companies spreading insurance as secondary products and insurance companies. middle-life insurance services must not be closely connected with other activities or individuals who can interfere with the monitoring of the FEC. The F.O. shall register those persons who have more than 10% share in the activities of DNS, DNS and non-communicators who distribute insurance as a secondary product. A requirement for the management and executive of the insurance insurance service, an employee who is a insurance agent, a person responsible for the distribution of insurance as a secondary product, as well as insurance companies, has good reputation. Distribution providers should have minimal knowledge of the terms of insurance insurance, treatment of requirements, laws relating to insurance and regulations on normal and healthy business practices. The head of DNS, the person who is a DNS, and the insurance traders, should have re-education or training every year to ensure that they are qualified and qualified for jobs. The terms of a remuneration are more detailed than in the current legislation, and the distribution holder shall now ensure that the exchange of insurance does not conflict with the obligation to keep the interests of future life insurance companies in first place. Remuneration should not be a factor in recommending a measure of insurance in excess of others that are more suitable for insurance. If the distributors intend to provide services in another Member State or to establish a branch office, more details should be reported than in accordance with local regulations for the UNECE. Among other things, what is planned and the analysis of insurance for the operation should be done. The FEC may refuse to report branch activities in another Member State if there is reason to believe that social governance or financial status is not allowed to set up the branch. Finally, if necessary, the SEC can stop services without the operations of a branch office in this country. The bill contains an obligation to establish a ruling committee for the distribution of insurance insurance so that problems can be raised over rights and related customers. A respectable president. The main objective of the bill is to integrate markets and increase consumer protection. In order to achieve this goal, there are increased and consistent demands for people who are sharing insurance. The requirements go beyond the current demand and are therefore altered in the environment of people who distribute insurance. However, it is not expected that the bill will limit the number of subjects on the market or influence their potential or initiative to compete. The bill includes increased responsibilities on the FDA that have long-term evaluated these obligations. According to it, the bill is not expected to have any anticipated changes in income or financial expenses from the Commission. It is not expected that legalization of the bill will have a financial impact on financial funds. A respectable president. I suggest that this bill be referred to the Economic and Business Committee and 2nd. after this discussion.
