ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u1	Borist has reported a change in the administration of the Independence Party so that Vilhjálmur Árnason will be the vice president of the Party instead of the Álgis Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir and Bordis Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir will be the secretary of the Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u2	Then there has been a report of a change in human life from the Party of Independence, as mentioned in Article 16. Congress. Andersen will take his place as the chief member of the Foreign Affairs Committee instead of Áslugar Sigurbjörnsdóttir Bearsdótttir. At the same time, Sigríður Á. Andersen takes his place as the head of the Icelandic Congress department of the International Parliament rather than the Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir. The Birgir son of Ármannsson will take his place as an assistant to the National Iceland Department of NATO instead of the Aslaugar Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir. These changes will be considered approved without a vote if they do not object. There have also been reports of changes in the committees of the council. From the Council of the Left move, a green supply: Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir will be the head of the General and Education Committee instead of the Steinunn-Tran-Þóra-old Árnadóttir who will be a guardian. Resar Brynjólfsdóttir Bryenfelddddóttir will take the place as the head of a professional station instead of Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttir's son, Proppér, who becomes a replacement. The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir will take up residence as an assistant to the Economic and Business Committee instead of Andrés Ingi Jónsson. In a financial committee, Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir will be replaced by the Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, who becomes a guardian. Andrés Ingi Jónsson will be taking his place as a deputy of the board and board of directors instead of Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdóttir. In the Environment and Transport Committee, Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé will take his place as a nomad instead of Rósa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir Bjornótsdótir who becomes a substitute. Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir will take his place as an assistant to the Foreign Affairs Committee. Finally, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir will take his place as the leading member of a welfare committee instead of Andrés Ingi Jónsson, who will be a deputy along with Bjarks Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. These changes will likewise be considered approved if they do not speak out.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u3	It is a meeting between the presidents and the council groups that a meeting meeting can last longer than at the end of the day. 20 if necessary. Today, there will be a general debate over the budget bill following the history of finance and economic ministers. Tomorrow, so special professional ministers will participate in discussions about their lawsuits. It is a meeting arrangement, as is 3 mg. Sixty-seven. Congress. The financial and economic minister has up to 15 minutes to the very beginning. The right to return to return will be emptied, i.e. It must be ensured that representatives of all government groups will be able to give a full answer to a minister's speech. Then, each member of Congress will speak for ten minutes each and then to other members of Congress who would like to participate in the discussion and have up to ten minutes. The talk, apart from the space followed by a talk at the highest. Secretary of finance, however, only the secretary of finance and/or members of the Parliament have the right to counter in the first round of the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u4	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to be financed by the year 2020 of the Council of 150th. According to the 42nd. The Constitution shall provide a budget for the General when it meets and in Article 25. Conventional law states that the bill should be submitted at the first meeting of the fall council. The financial bill is based on a financial strategy for 2020,2024, and a revised financial policy, both of which were approved on June 20th. As we know, it was necessary to reevaluate financial policies and Senate resolutions on financial schemes proposed by March due to changing economic outlooks. This was to contribute to the maintenance of public financial levels, not to shrink or cut economic growth beyond the economic adjustments, and to reevaluate policy targets for reducing decomposition goals. The budget is detracted from previous plans of government funds while the economy seeks balance and provides a basis for a new economic growth. The financial bill, as it is suggested today, is somewhat less substantial than it has been in recent years, and I'll spend a year a year in comparison with it. We are gradually trying to find the right rhythm in not relighting material from economic policy to spring again in the fall of the budget. From one government budget to the next, repetition should be minimized. I'll let this be mentioned here and think we'll keep looking for the right rhythm in this subject. A respectable president. The financial bill reflects the objective of the government to counteract a temporary downturn in the economy. The financial strength of the state is the result of the success that has been achieved over the past few years and leads to the continuation of the development of the Kingdom's infrastructure and infrastructure. In the present situation, we will see how much time has taken to use the good years to make a more productive living year after year. Since government funds have been run well at the top of the economy and debts dropped, it is now possible to face changed circumstances without starting debt and going to surgery, as has all too often been the result of past downstairs. Governments will be allowed to carry out their role in the duping of the economy by compromising their target of survival. This guide to economic management is to promote a stable, improved standard of living. There is also the need to mention that money policy and government economic policy at the right time are in the economy, thanks to the economic management of the past few years. Creates room for increasing numbers already slows down the economy. The pricing of the Icelandic Crown, which has recently reflected the underlying economic developments, and the decline in the growth of the Federal Bank also falls on the same rhythm. The bank's basic fruits have never been lower. At that time, workers have contributed to economic instability through recent labour contracts. I think there's something unique in our economic history how these three underlying and important factors work together at this time, and it's very beneficial for the people of the country. According to the bill, the state funds business will be in balance in 2020, which is in accordance with financial and financial objectives. The new economic goals contribute to stability so that the sustainability of public funds will be maintained over a longer period than it is expected to allow the automatic balance of the state's budget to function as the economy seeks balance. It is estimated that the cost of government funds will increase by 56 billion dollars. between year and year, however, income only about 27 billion dollars. In spite of this, the initial equation of the year will be positive by 1.6% and the overall result will be 400 million. K. In fact, the remainder of the original balance of state funds has never been positive when economic growth is less than 1.5%, which is considered to be a number of times. We've got 20 years to go back here, just like you've traced to the budget bill. To put these figures in perspective, Iceland is still among European countries that provide the most basic equations. This fact is evidence of how responsible financialism over the past few years has made the economy much better equipped to cope with the circumstances we are facing. In fact, no matter what standards are tested, everywhere the situation of the nation's population is revealed. Job levels are the highest among OECD countries, have been able to maintain low inflation, and growth has declined considerably this year. Evolution has been shown to include has been shown that more people are now able to invest in their own housing, and the proportion of the first owners has grown rapidly during the past years. In this way, the export value of sea products has never been higher, as well as the development of other new pillars in our economy, which then depend on it. These include a company in a knowledge industry, but salmon fuel also grows rapidly, creating increasing export costs. A respectable president. Since 2013 taxes on individuals have been the issue of government priorities. During 2014•2018, taxes were reduced by nearly 25 billion per year, with large quantities of revenue followed. In this context, there was a recent assessment of the purchase of average wages, showing that in 2018, commercial power among OECD countries was no greater than in Iceland. That should be big news. A further decline in income tax was required by the government's declaration of policy, i.e. as sensitive to up to one percentage level during the optimal period. In the ensuing of collective agreements, the government introduced an even greater reduction in income taxes and changes in the tax system. In all, the changes will include a total of 21 billion. Lower curses when fully introduced, this corresponds to about 10% of the government's revenues of income tax by individuals. This decrease will be fully evident in the course of two years, not three, as previously announced in the financial program. The loss of taxes is greatly reduced by the tax burden of low and intermediate income groups as well as by increasing their provisional income. So it supports economic stability because of the timing of the economy, relieves by personal consumption, and thus plays the terms of government spending very well with the position we look forward to. The new implementation of the tax system includes a new baseline, as well as new criteria for the development of personal discounts and steps, which are accompanied by the development of a combined change in the index of consumer prices and development of production. All of this is a major milestone in my mind, the new criteria for the personality discount, biographies that look for future economic growth and changes in the income tax system, which, of course, are primarily designed to lower taxes. All of this is a major milestone. Second part of a 0.5 percentage reduction rate per year will also be carried out, with a decrease in the rate below 0.25 percentage points at the beginning of 2019. The reductions in the insurance budget obviously strengthen the business market and the competitiveness of the company and generally support the work market, especially for smaller companies with high pay ratios. A lower insurance bill thus reduces the risk of even more unemployment than is currently predicted. In this regard, I have to say, at the same time, we are raising obstetric pay and extending our maternity reserves, and this reduces our potential for further reduction in insurance. There is another discussion, though, that we may be able to take later. A respectable president. In next year's budget, contributions to key issues will continue to increase. It reflects the determination of the government to protect important building blocks of the inside and the service of the State. There will be large increases in public projects to offset the decline in employment investment and this is involved in measures to minimise the impact of the decline. The percent increase in transport and communications has been the largest in the terms of the season, 25% in real value. In all, contributions to investments will exceed 78 billion dollars. and have increased by 27 billion actual values since 2017. It is expected that the year 2020 will include an increase in public investments. Creates some 600 jobs until 2021. Over 28 billion donations for transport are expected in 2020, and more power will be put into the construction of a new Hospital. It will produce 8.5 billion in 2020, but the hospital's building is the largest investment project in the state. Other major investment projects include the purchase of helicopters for our weekend service, which we have long waited for to be realized. The production of a new ocean vessel is also of great importance, and we made a decision to act on that task in connection with a major milestone in the history of the nation. It's also the building of Hussician. This financial bill also contains health and welfare issues in the foreground. In connection with the implementation of collective labour agreements, the government issued a declaration of action in support of the agreement. The overall scope of the proclaimed action during the contract period is estimated at around 80 billion dollars. but the effect of the operation in 2020 will be over 16 billion. In addition to changes in the income tax system, the state's actions include longer birth rates, higher child reforms, and a number of measures to facilitate an apartment purchase. Most of these actions take place next year. Social, housing and insurance expenses are estimated to increase by 8%, i.e. 18 billion dollars, but increasing unemployment also calls for greater donations from the state. Health contributions continue to grow and rise between years by 5%, 12 billion dollars. The budget of 2020 also highlights the environment. They have a noble place in the interests of the government. Increased emphasis is on the battle against climate cover, e.g. with new green taxes on fluorinated greenhouse gases It specifically shows that there are other environmental solutions that are encouraged to become rather new. Other environmental incentives are also involved. Increased support for the purchase of home loading stations and the renting of environmentally friendly vehicles is expected to be two strong incentives to speed up energy exchange. Green taxes that support the climate Action Programme create new income for government funds, but obviously such taxes need to be viewed, not for good, but for the sake of the change. The aim is to provide the income strain at its end, the underlying objective will be accomplished, improving the environment, improving the climate, improving the quality of life, and better options. A respectable president. The budget is continuing to improve the standard of living and to support the stability that can provide for a new economic growth. The contribution of the Kingdom Fund is, in particular, marked by the current economy. However, the wealth of money is in the envyable position to cope with these situations without having to cope with severe action, by cutting down or by reducing investments. It would be scary to face such a thing. On the contrary, we are on the move to expand our donations, and we do so without going to a corner. Increasing production of the economy is part of which I believe we need special attention. Once we've slowed down and set the budget as high as we can see, we have to start calling for increased production, not just in the state, but in the economy. It's the source of a principle that a standard of living in Iceland will remain amongst the most known things. Increased investments in traditional material and chemical infrastructures, such as education and research, are fundamental factors and essential links in increased production, along with improved regular work and good access to international markets. It is important to continue to work on and to find a good balance between the five basic public finance, sustainableity, caution, stability, stability, stability and transparency, as well as to deal with the challenges of government economical role at different times. Most important, the law on public finances serves its purpose to create a budget that enables governments to implement their policies in a responsible and effective way. With the budget of 2020, the government in its plans to promote stability, improved standard of living, the continuation of services and investments within the interiors, all for the benefit of the nation. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I request that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. The budget board.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u5	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for the rest of the discussion. First, I'd like to ask him a few questions. The budget and financial programmes show the clear will of the government to reduce the degree of tax steps used. The budget bill tells of changes in income taxation by year to date, the implementation of the first stage of the production of the new income tax system. It shows that the extent of tax steps integration will be reduced. Then, if we look at a financial program for 2020-2024, we will see the elimination of the taxation of partners. Of course, this affects those who have made good use of this strategy. Then, only three days ago, there will be a announcement on the Department of Economic and Economic Networks, which says: ◯[is] a right to oblige the authority of the tax measures introduced into the 2010 tax system will also remain unchanged in a new tax system. I have to ask the highest. Secretary of finance: What should be the subject of the matter? Will financial and financial support or any government announcements made by the Ministry? What does that mean? To be reduced, the highest. Secretary of finance, co-efficiency of tax steps, or shouldn't it? I think it's gonna have to come out. It's a very inexplicable presentation and policy-making, which is just a paradox.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u6	A respectable president. We're not here to discuss the income tax bill, we're discussing the budget bill. It's out of the blue. A senator noted that in the underlying terms of financial planning, when evaluated for tax losses, a proportion of funding was expected to be based on a reduction in the ability to match tax steps. But it's not being suggested here, that's another bill. It's a financial bill, it's about income and fees, but the income tax bill refers to a couple's balance and such factors, just to make this clear. A husband and a wife have been authorized to share in the field ministry, e.g. character discount. In general, a marriage arrangement has specifically referred to the authority to add the personal discount. There's never been a change in that. Then, a few years ago, there was an introduction of a tax level harmonization rule. It is rooted in the time when we took up our third tax step. In the meantime, the interval was removed, and now when we take up the lowest tax step in order to provide the reduction in taxes specifically to the low income and lower intermediate groups, there will be no change in the sentence on co-ordination steps. However, the rule of law is designed to allow it to allow only the coordinated steps to go down to the next step below. The presence of a new lowest step will affect the implementation of a mismatch, but the order of the law is completely unchanged. I hope it's clear enough. I felt like men only ran on themselves before the very bill on this subject was made public. [[The president calls.]] There is no decline in clearance, either to the same marriage or to the level of compatibility. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u7	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I have to say, this is very vague, and there are paradoxs in between, in terms of the bill, the plan, and then this statement from the Ministry. It is natural to know if this will not affect a certain amount of revenue. If the highest. A minister says that there will be no change, is there not a basis for what is presented in a financial program? Other than that, I just wanted to come in on the carbon bill. Now it is to be raised, and green taxes raise them by 1.5 billion. We do not belittle the fact that it is important to face climate challenges, but we also place considerable emphasis on the success of these taxes. In this country, it is only natural to demand taxpayers to know that specific taxes, such as carbon bills, are effective. The carbon bill is now rising by 10%. I think it's 121⁄23k. I'm on some gas and diers, if I'm right. This means an increase in a quart of gasoline and diesel oil. The Environment Ministry has now confirmed at a meeting of the financiers that there is no telling of the results of this tax system, nothing can be said about it. Isn't that just a requirement, chief? Secretary of finance, to provide some kind of report on what results this will bring? Is it not in the spirit of the law on public finances that specific taxes produce results? I think we're going to have to get into the stitches of this case, chief. Minister, because it is unnatural to tax the public in this way when there is no knowledge of success. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u8	A respectable president. With regard to the clearance to collaborate, I'm just saying again that it was expected in the cost estimate of government action that there might be significant withdrawals from sources to close-up steps, but that is not the result. In addition, the financial program expected us to introduce the loss of income in three steps, but we are going to do so in two. I miss what I'm doing. A senator who is very interested in this matter and who is in charge of income taxation should not use the time at the council to celebrate the tremendous amount of taxation we preach here and that we should speed it up, that we do not have to finance it by entering a taxation, e.g. of the step-by-step process, and such factors. In terms of other taxes, the price for carbon is long over. It was done almost a year ago. It is true that the future was determined to include the rise of the carbon account. The question is, What is the result? I would have liked to hear from what. A senator would be able to measure the results of these materials himself. Can we possibly look into the fact that nowhere in the world are electric cars being introduced as fast as Iceland, except Norway? Is this evidence that we are on the right track? We gave in a year after 3 billion in the valuable tax system because of 3500 environmentally friendly cars moved into the country. Is that a success? I'd say it was a success. We returned the spells that we would have taken from imported cars to billions of people who would have caused environmental solutions. Yes, those who were not in the environmental solutions had to pay something for it. The change is taking place, and it's going on very fast, and I think it's a cause for joy and it's an unambiguous success of the indiscriminate system we have on the other hand and the green taxes on the other.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u9	Mr. President. A report on the budget is traced to the major economic uncertainty issues, and it shows that more than any increase in prospects is expected in 2020 compared to the projections on which the bill is based. It is not only a uncertainty about domestic sizes, tourism, and other employment projects, as well as a flash of commercial importance in larger countries. For example, in the days when the vice president of the United States brought us home, China, and the U.S. That business war increases the likelihood of a recession in an investment and of a job market in our major business countries. This adds to the uncertainty of how Britain's eviction from the European Union will be implemented and impact on other countries, including Iceland. We need to take this into account when making financial decisions. So it's interesting and worried that there are no income routes expected in the bill. For example, the most successful members of society are not required, and they enjoyed the rousing of adding more to the community through the subversive tax system. On the contrary, changes are announced on how tax bases for capital gain are calculated as paying capital owners for inflation and is used to reduce the tax. So I want to ask the highest. Minister if he believes that the wishful thinking that I want to show up in the bill, that there is a better way of making things look, is in the spirit of government law, how to react to a worse position, and whether there is to be a cut in the welfare system rather than to earn money if the next estimate is worse than the last.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u10	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. A senator that there is always some uncertainty about the future, and in many parts of the international business. It can affect our business affairs in Iceland, it can reduce economic growth in other areas, we can go into a long period of low growth and small growth. All of this is uncertainty. What we use to help us, however, is a public opinion. That's what we got. We don't make our own fortunes. We do not expect better or worse results, we just use official figures, and that is in accordance with the law. The financial convention, which was updated in June, created a new space of uncertainty. There's a doubt whether there's enough. In the past, we have discussed whether to make a profit - change adjusted goal. That discussion will continue. The important thing is that the state's budget is in good position to deal with it if the length of the contract becomes longer than expected today. The bill presents a table showing that the Haustabian project has an optimistic view of many who are being selected, but all of them plan for growth within the next year and the next year. In this regard, there are not difficult times ahead of us, though it has been a long period of intense economic growth. As usual, the union misses out on tax returns. It's very difficult for me to understand exactly who people are talking about. People are spoken of at the high point. They are the same people who were talking about in a chamber for not many of them, and they had to do with the medical debate. Then came they up, and said, The wages of the doctors must be increased. They have to rise by 30,40%, even 50%, or they're all leaving the country. We have to do this, and the secretary of finance is responsible for the failure of negotiations with doctors. [[The president calls.]] Then, in a second speech, they say about the same people: They must be raised taxes on these people. I don't understand that political bitch.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u11	Mr. President. I understand the highest. A minister may be concerned about the best interests of those in society, but what about the poorest? Minimum implementation insurance for micro-efficient and rehabilitation donors is 247.183 k. per month. The maximum amount of life with all related payments is $310,800. per month. Clearly, many do not reach that amount. Some 70% of pension workers who live under the worst terms are women who have worked part - time along household chores in the past or who have been working at home for some reason. Among the most prominent are women of foreign background. This group of women has earned little or even no rights to pay from pension funds and have very limited resources and resources to further themselves. A large group of elderly and poor people live in poverty. In fact, according to the recent study of Iceland's Haust, less than one quarter of theorem suffers from a lack of material wealth. The budget is suggested that pensions only increase 3.5% by the year while the lowest salary increases more, i.e. 5.7%, from April 1 next year. In fact, they went up April 1st, and that's an increase the pensioners didn't get. If this continues, the gap between pensioners and earners on the lowest remuneration scale will increase over the next few years. So I ask the highest. Ministers on whether or not within the government to get the same rise as expected in the labour agreements on the lowest pay scale, which, according to them, will be $34,000 monthly pay next year and 390,000. month 1 January 2022
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u12	A respectable president. You're right. One senator says, there are large groups in society that we feel are too small to play. There are various reasons. One was mentioned here, there are large groups in the older society, into the pension years, without having built up any rights anywhere. There are a number of reasons I'm not going to trace here, but it's very burdensome for one community to deal with such a problem. There is a problem for entire nations in many other places. But we have succeeded, as it has been. you can see from the record of the record, that these terms are greatly appreciated. We also have documents showing that by the end of 2016 the major change has completely fixed this position. But work must continue. It is asked if it is right for this group to increase as the lowest salary, but not as in general pay as it has been agreed in collective labour agreements. Change now during the New Year's season, we base on the law, as it has been done. In recent years, however, we have increased through these groups, especially in excess of others. That's where I refer to the pensioners. This work must continue. What I want to draw attention to is if we ask: " What are the most tax payingoffs we are here? Which groups are exactly 325,000 kr. the monthly salary or the income line? Then the answer is: The groups that lay. A senator is asking about, if you want to die, if you want to, how old you are, and if you're at minimum, you're the largest group in the income range. Our loss of taxes is particularly directed toward these groups in order to reach them and improve their benefits. [[The president calls.]] Discussing what we will do for these groups requires that we take note of what we are doing in the tax.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u13	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you a few questions, but I'm going to stick to what really matters to me during these days and months, the law on public finances. The law is in full effect. There is no law-enforcement, but we still don't give them legal or financial laws. When ministers come to a legal committee meeting, they talk a lot about the fact that people are still learning very much, still being better. All right, it's taking a step in the direction, but the law still works. That's why I'd like to ask the secretary of finance about this induction, which is always being said is still going on, even though there's no law on her: What's the plan? When will we reach the point where we will fully apply the laws on public finances? What are the steps toward achieving it? We are not there now, even though the law says otherwise. In simple ways, then, it may be possible for a minister to bring about a change in government financial law that would be time - set on when the missing items are added so that we know exactly what to expect in the next financial programme and what the law will be and what will not, what will be next on the schedule, etc.?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u14	A respectable president. Now I'm not completely aware of what's wrong. A senator is thinking about or about what he is referring to. We can check the individual joint abnormalities, e.g. broken this down to the topic field, look at the first charge table, and ask: Is this what it was set up in a financial plan? Then I'd say, "Yes, we are. There's a little something to be found. If it had been the idea of a conquistancy of a financial plan to lay all the basic lines on how a budget should look, we will achieve that goal perfectly. It simply cannot be a goal in itself to create the financial bill for spring in detail. We're making a decision, not by the law, but by the interpretation, to lay down all the broad lines and deal with the grounds for income and pay the side of the budget, which appears until the fall. I feel like I've done well. In case of a moment. A senator believes that there are serious differences between what the council approves as the foundation of the budget and then the bill we're discussing here today I'd like to see the examples because I'd always think about the purpose of all of this. Are we achieving the purpose? I'm less busy putting a very rigid ruler on whether this is all on the line. That's the main thought that must be the main point, that we've all basically discussed the premiums for the income and the remuneration gate and their implementation in a financial programme so that it appears there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u15	A respectable president. This reflects the tiny old arrangement in public financial matters that are later added. The law on public finances is the exact budget to be set up, the priorities to be set up, and the budget should be established. She's missing. This is the first requirement that must be met in order to complete everything else according to government laws. I'm talking about a government law, not a Senate resolution on a financial agenda. There were some things she needed about priorities, cost analysis, and benefits. There is no record of population development for the future decades. She's not here yet, yet she should be here. It's these things I just feel like I'm missing. The wrong leg has started, the budget is always the way it was, not the way it should be. You will start by filling in this huge text, which is, fortunately, slightly smaller than it has been, but not starting with the cost estimate and benefit analysis of projects proposed by the government. If we start there, the rest is no problem, nothing. Then we will see why we should finance this work. The key line, the principle that I'm calling out for, which is not being carried out, is that when I see an amount to an institution or to a project, I have to ask: Why this amount and not someone else? That's how it is, for example. with the hospital, the health care system. Why is it said that there is a problem with business? Why is it not said that it has a financing problem? We do not know because we do not know the requirement for service. Since we do not know the underlying goals, the amount of money we agree with is just a guess. It's not something we're supposed to accept at a council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u16	A respectable president. I can better understand why. The senator is showing, i.e. He refers to specific laws on public financial matters. I can say with what. A member of the council to make a clear analysis and goals, but I think it's a good idea. A senator has too much hope that we can answer in advance. I disagree that simply by having and explaining specific tasks answered all questions more and less. The difference is simply what we call politics. The groups believe in different ways in specific matters. We have different perspectives on what is important and what should be the priority. It is not possible to set an absolute value on the amount of money needed for individual projects, how important it is to spend alone bridges against putting extra money on better medicines. We're not gonna put this in some excel-tail and get the result. The priorities of the budget are, in fact, one of the political nuclear projects, the right balance between them, and the ability to take up a discussion about it in a Senate hall, and to introduce it in a financial bill and in a financial program. I agree with what. A member of the Parliament that makes an account of the use of money and can provide comments on why individual aspects are being added and what the result is. But if this discussion is to be done fairly, I don't think we've ever made the same struggle to answer these questions as we are doing today, since we are really discussing for the first five years ahead. [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator refers to the old age. In the old days, there was no five-year plan. In the old days, a budget bill arrived in October, in the old days, some of the arrangements came in November. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] In the old days, funds ran out in February.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u17	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for excellent advance on what might be called a financial bill like a minister would like to have it, some kind of dream of the money next year. Sadly, yet again, in no way are we connected with the economic realities we face. We have repeatedly criticized this government for wishful thinking when it comes to the budget and when it comes to the declaration of a great government charge that this government is founded on. This dream has probably never been greater than right now. That's what I'm wondering, my chief. Minister, how in the world is it, when we were standing here a year ago discussing the budgets for this year 2019, in the present year, we had to reevaluate it from the work of a legal committee in November, then revise its economic foundations for the discussion of the new financial policy here in the winter, and then see the outcome projections for this year not even the basis for not going to follow but at least here. 40 billion financial weaknesses for 2019 C.E. - nevertheless, as if nothing ever happened, are presented with a financial bill by 2020, and here is a rosy and bright future. Money, by some miracle, will take over immediately next year. Expenditures will not get out of hand despite the fact that the government has already lost control of the government's affairs. That is 20 billion income weaknesses in 2019. That's at least 203/430 billion increase from the revised criteria of 2019 C.E. How on earth, baby. Secretary of the budget, shall we take this document credible now?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u18	A respectable president. It was a lot of reading over the heads - the economists. It's economists. A senator is looking at his face. Hv. A senator must decide: Should the government be based on public forecasts or any feeling of what might happen? It is possible to criticize those who have made the best predictions - and we have used them as a basis. It is true that they have not followed, and sometimes large, unseen events occur. I'm calling phlegm failure. I'm giving a obvious failure to travel services. The underlying question is, What is the real problem? A senator is describing, and where is it affecting the people of the land? Where is the mistake of making plans for home appearances? Is that in the inflation? No, that can't possibly be, it's just in the range. Is it in the interest phase? The height has never been lower. Is it the fact that we can't keep up with a budget plan for payment? No, we're ahead of schedule for payment. Is that at the professional stage? Where is it that this terrible problem is? A senator has been talking about such a difference that affects companies and the public? What is it about government funds that we should be doing in a very different way under these circumstances? Those who have been answering these questions have answered them in such a way as to the government that it is correct, otherwise they would not have been able to negotiate long - term open agreements, or the colony's interest would not be going down, or we would not be in a position to deal with the present tragedy without immediately adding much debt. So I just ask, is there any serious issue in itself that people plan a plan based on economic forecasts and then adapt to it and have the ability to do so, as we are showing that we have this financial bill? What is the problem with 30 billion leftovers next year? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u19	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister is very much concerned with this question, for the very essence is where this problem arises. It breaks out in the fact that we are still the one journey to starve public investment. When we look at the long - term average of public investments in our country, at least 400 billion for us to reach our tail after decades of public investment, much below the average. On this point, public reports agree. Industrial organizations have included: together, with ears marked the location of this investment. Once again, we are looking at a financial bill at the level of investment, despite the dramatic statements of the government on the contrary, far below the historical average. The historical average normal state in this country is 4.5% of national product and the government, with a declared high-investment application, has an investment level of 3.73/43,8% of land production in an investment phase. It's called eating the seed, the highest. When the booth is blown out into the infinite, the secretary of finance, when the regular spending of the state's funds, but we cannot afford to live up to the necessary investments in our interiors. It is the infrastructure that is starving again at the expense of the government's high - cost expansion in all areas, in fact, an amazing aimless macroevolution because its aim seems to be an expansion. We still see in this budget no clear objective of how we are caring for the $900 billion we're talking about, what we're getting for them, or what we're going to go for with the expansion that's being offered. At any rate, the need for a public investment is not being arranged. The messages we receive, especially those in the southwest corner, are: If they're to attack the necessary investments that have been starving for years, you'll have to pay extra for it. [[The president calls.]] It's called a tax raise, chief. Secretary of finance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u20	A respectable president. All right, people want to see the state's higher level of investment, and I agree with those who say that the investment rate has been withdrawn too much in the years that followed. That was the simple way. It was anticipated that humans would be helped, which would be easier to deal with. They called it the mixed way back then. But it was going a long way to reduce the investment of the government. Actually, the job investment was at the same time going down. But there's no way to argue that in this bill we're on the right track. We are expanding our budget each year, and we have been setting priorities for increased investments. I disagree with what they say, that there are the regular expenses for the booth that are detracting their investment. If we look at the economic exchange of budgets, which is a good account of the budget, we will see that we have been putting an unusual amount of money into the move. Actually, people are drawing attention to the fact that if we are going to continue the trend of achieving so much social security as we have been doing by improving the life cycle of sensibilities and disability donors, it will affect our ability to make investments so that we can sustain our country. And this is a real point. This is big. This is one of the many times spent on the budget bill, drawing out what economic exchanges have been like. We need to start paying attention to the enormous amount of money going to the social security system and in the larger transfer systems. But I have to refuse that there is evidence in the budget that some other regular spending is out of control. Consider the exchange of expenses. What are some aspects of growth? He goes to the health - care providers we've all agreed on should be improved. He goes to the classes I am referring to, such as a health professional.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u21	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for good advance. I missed not hearing more about what I feel is the most personal thing that seems to be in sight now, and that is a decrease in interest, that the money policy and the state population are beginning to lament well together that not just the newly hired bank manager but and the highest. Secretary of finance has said that there is really all the basis for a further decrease in interest. I think it's the greatest farm for the Icelandic public and business in the country. Apart from that, there is also a decrease in taxation, which occurs over two years in place of three. It's to be given $70,000,200,000. This year, when it is fully implemented. One third coming next year, I don't know if it's $3,700. In a month, at most. At the same time, endless curses, carbon bills, prices, green taxes are being proclaimed here and there. I'm asking the highest. A direct financial minister when he speaks of what this tax reduction will bring great relief to low-payers and middle-temperatures: How can you get it out at the same time as it's being added a spell on the precise number of these groups? How will they live after two years when everything is under way? In the end, how will this return in terms of improvement?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u22	A respectable president. I believe that when you look especially at the groups as a boy. A senator, a low income group member in Iceland, needs to look at the big picture. I'd start by looking at the biographies agreements, what was written in them. As a result, the line has been submitted to collective agreements on public markets. In particular, this particularly emphasizes the need to lift up. A senator mentions. The actions of the government then come further. They come to the aid of children with higher child repair and higher criteria for impairment, e.g. Children's low incomes receive much more support, as well as increased maternity payments and extensions of the birthworm, which can be of great importance to those same families. In particular, tax measures do these groups good because this taxation has an impact every month. I don't think that in all history there was never been a more massive tax operation, nor a head to a tax operation so specifically designed to lower taxes above all the groups that are being discussed here. This is 21 billion left at the homes. There are other fees, but I have to keep it in place that we have emphasized that such costs include a message that there are options. Here, for example. In that case, the price of the price was called, the choice of sorting more. Because this is what we call carbon pay, elsewhere we are saying: Use environmentally safe cars, cars that burn less fuel, power cars, and others like that. [[The president calls.]] That's where we're cutting off taxes, giving off credit taxes, transport fees, etc. [[The president calls.]] So the answer to that question is, It's all going to come back.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u23	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I'm just gonna take one point out of the carbon account. V.E.G. Minister says we're just buying an electric car and we'll be environmentally friendly at the same time. First of all, the Habitat gives out that 50% of all wage workers in the country have less than 441,000 dollars. a month to make your income. Tells you the highest. Secretary of finance for a person who gets paid over 300,000 dollars. are you planning to invest in an electric car? How much for a power car today? Really, who will suffer the loss of paying up carbon money? Poor people driving around on that old slut, hardly darker enough to get on the road. There's no way to replace the old car or buy a electric car. We can't overlook the fact that there's such a group in the community, way too big a group. If we are really going to be consistent and engage in energy exchange, we must do much better for this group to allow him to get into the vehicles that are often being proclaimed here. Then there's a question of something else when we're talking about coming charges and I don't know what or what. Doesn't count at the highest. The secretary of finance is now a reason to look at, in the changing landscapes we see, our great popularity what attracts our global position in the north, that we may be able to make extraordinary agreements with these wonderful friends who are so eager to come here and be here? We could make deals that would be unique in the Icelandic history.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u24	A respectable president. I can see why. A senator is appropriate. Of course, not all measures made by the State are suitable for each individual citizen. The guy who drives an old car, he's got no tires like a dog. A senator mentioned, must also look to some other option in this situation than to the electric cars. I'll name the trucks, for example, because we're also giving coincidences elsewhere. We provide, for example. indiscriminates to a satellite vehicle and we have plans to take public charge of electric wheels, and they are becoming an optimised option as the walking system in the capital area becomes more dense, as all of us notice. These are all factors that need to be looked into. I believe, however, that the main purpose will be achieved by this large system change that we are preaching that is, on the other hand, giving a great deal of attraction to encourage the change, and on the other hand, we have, for example, to encourage the change. in the top currency of the most polluted cars, 65% rate. In other words, we are trying to push them out of the market slowly. It'll take a long time. The underlying question is why. A senator has the right to say whether we are taking back all the benefits of the tax reduction or other betters, and I give a very direct answer that it is not.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u25	Mr. President. First, I want to review the most important chapter of this bill, which is found on page 5. 88 and forward, status and economic prospects. As regards what the bill will do for the future in the economic climate of future losses, the income side of the bill is, of course, affecting the side of the bill and also the gates. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has stressed that economic forecasts, financial and economic forecasts are being followed, which are from Iceland's Hauspology. However, this is shown on page 18. 88 that no analyst predicts a more economic growth in 2020 than the Habitat. Mr. President. I would have considered it normal for men to make predictions, and I tried to find an average that would give me a more realistic view of the future economic events. Is there any question as to whether it should always follow the projections that predict the most economic growth, such as in this case? On page 18. 91 of the bill is a section on economic uncertainty. It's a very interesting chapter, and I think all members of Congress should read it and study it because there's a lot of interesting information there that can affect this bill and can make it necessary to reevaluate a business plan, etc., in a short time, even when new economic forecasts are present in the autumn months. It says, for example. on page 24. The present global economic climate has a higher magnitude of security than in many times before. Of course, that's a concern. It also says: "There is a greater chance that the economic situation of 2020 will be worse than that it will get better. It also shows that there is a danger of detoxification in our major business countries, and that is, of course, a concern. And as mentioned earlier, the U.S. business war with China is a commercial war. It's all a worry. According to the chapter, the rate of growth in ten - year bond bonds in the United States is now less than three months apart, and this has been historically a symbol of economic hardship in that country. This is of great interest because we know that the beginning of the recent economic crisis was rooted in the United States. There are signs of the air that are truly disturbing. Then we have the British exit out of the European Union. There's a lot of uncertainty about, for example. Our export to Britain, etc. How these trends develop can have a negative impact on our export income. It is then said that the development of tourism and that the demand for travel to Iceland may also be reduced. Of course, this is a concern, not least because it is now shown in the bill that there is going to be an increase in budget for tourism by 2.5 billion dollars. In other words, comets are due. The information I have is that there was no consultation with the travel service in this regard. While working there was a so - called consultation group, he was blown off at the end of the New Year's Eve. There's no consultation here. We don't know what the export will be, but this is a substantial amount of 2.5 billion, which will affect this important industry and probably with some kind of exit fees, I understand, and will affect the flight. There's a lot of competition. Does this cause any impact on domestic flights? We don't have any information about it. That information is essential. Investigating uncertainty about housing investments, it is appropriate to remember that there are signs of less activities in the construction industry and industrial organizations that have predicted declines and reductions in construction activities in the coming winter. That's about it. 14,500 construction workers in Iceland are expected to have fewer jobs. That's about it. The number is much higher than 37.5% in construction in the capital area, and in the vicinity of the capital area. This is a concern because the construction industry is among the largest industry. Therefore, there are signs of concern, Mr. President, which may have a bearing on the fact that there is a need to revise every basis. I see that time is running fast, and I wanted to come on one point. I specifically mentioned the co-efficiency of tax steps, and only crossed the fact that there is a discrepancy between the authors of the budget and the financial programme and then this statement from the Ministry of Economics. This had something uncomfortable with the topv. Secretary of finance, and he said the matter wasn't being discussed here, we were discussing the budget, not the side of the income bill. Of course, this is involved because it is in financial and financial planning. But I'm glad that this is the result, the announcement that comes from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, which is naturally unusual in view of the fact that we have a financial strategy we follow. But I'm just glad if this is the case, there's nothing to change. Then, our presentation of the Middle Class may have had some effect on these subjects, so we celebrate. Then I just want to introduce to you the need to get an overview of the impact of increasing the taxation of intermediate workers by 1 percent. What sums of money are we talking about? It's necessary to come out. And what group are the ones that have to deal with the loss of taxes on the lowest income? I'd like to state that the Central Party celebrates all taxes. But it is quite clear that this is about to affect the middle class of the country, and this is once so that it often needs to bleed for a number of things. I believe it is necessary to find out how this will affect this special group. There's no diagnosis, no interpretation of it. I came in on the carbon charge in answer to the highest. Minister before. This was shown in the contrary to the minister of finance earlier that the purpose was to get the people of the country to use environmental vehicles. Hv. paritaprevir Sæland hareland correctly identified that not everyone can afford to buy an electric vehicle, and they are relatively expensive. But this price has been raised substantially since that government began. This will raise the price of gasoline and diesel, as mentioned earlier. It has been shown that the results cannot be determined. V.E.G. A financial minister says that the results are that there is a much higher number of electrical vehicles being introduced. But you ask yourself: " Is there no other way too, e.g. try to help keep an old car out of the way? In most cases, people who can't afford to buy electric cars. I'm calling attention to the fact that now the rental car doesn't have to pay the credit taxes from rented cars. I think it's quite interesting. What's this about costing a government fund? Why should this be stressed? Usually, there are tourists who come to enjoy this indiscretion. What about the public, me and Icelanders using the roads? Is it not reasonable to try to strengthen those who have old cars? Some companies are being exposed to them more than others. I see my time is up, but I would've liked to come in on IRS. Mr President, I'll have to enter this discussion later. It is necessary to discuss it further with this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u26	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for a good comment on this discussion. In the beginning, I want to say that it is absolutely true that we are dependent on a positive economic progress in our business countries. There is a degree of uncertainty at present, as stated in the financial bill and quoted, and perhaps an unusual uncertainty with reference to several key factors. In this regard it is very important that we Icelanders themselves have custody of our free business, for example, of our dealings with other countries. We have a vacation deal with China. In that sense, we are sheltered from a conflict between China and Americans. This is the effect of the controversies that can be spread in many places. It is also good for us to speak to the British ourselves on our own as a result of their coming out of the European Union, which will be either in the weeks or shortly thereafter. All of these are vital factors, and it is important that we remember that our appearance is not necessarily good. There are just so many factors that we can control ourselves, and other factors are beyond our control. We'll just take their consequences. With the intermediate income, the name was "whipped." A senator that the midpoint will rise. That is correct, but it does not make any paying taxes in the middle phase at any time have more tax burden as a result of the income tax change than for them. This is because of the magnitude of the decline in the lowest level. So everyone is having a tax reduction through the whole middle phase. Then I want to say what. A senator brings interesting details into the debate on energy change, and I just agree that we need to keep talking about them and find the right ways, motivations, and green taxes, to which combination this works best. [[The president calls.]] But first, we agree that energy exchange is desirable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u27	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister. It's right next to the highest. Ministers that this decrease in the lowest salary will result in an impact on all revenues, as they say. But I think it's necessary to get some sort of interpretation of this and to expect them at the work ahead of us in the work of the Commission, the impact on income rants, pay spaces, etc. Granted, it is a concern when it comes to saying that there are 1% tax percentages on this group. They think it means an increased tax burden. If not, this does have to be a little detailed in analysis. I think it's very important. I hope we can get some sort of diagnosis from the Committee. It's necessary for me to know. Besides, I would've liked to have some more work on the carbon account because it has a major impact on the country area. I have felt that this tax is not leveled on the population in a fair way. They're raising the price. It affects gasoline and diesel oil, so some kind of analysis of the effect is necessary. Now the Ministry was setting up the committee, discussing the council or Minister's reports, and it seemed to me that I was on the inside, Mr. President, in the discussion that the effect of certain changes could not be determined. So I feel like I'm really bad at heart. We must have a measure of influence, such as. of these special taxes, as the carbon bill is sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u28	A respectable president. That is an important discussion. A member of the United States comes along to note that the government's actions are not worse affected by the more widespread areas. There, the discussion has even been discussed. Whether the story is true - or not - the fact that people in the country are generally more active on their vehicles than people living in the capital area. We have seen only conflicting information about this. The last information I handled was the other way around, i.e. in general, people in the capital area were more likely to take on their vehicles. But there may be a better time for that discussion. I just want to draw attention to the economic importance of the energy exchange. We generally discuss this in terms of climate and environment, but I would like to ask people to open their eyes to the economic opportunities in Iceland and me that energy exchange takes place by stopping buying the energy from foreigners to move in and using our own energy to drive through communication and transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u29	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir For many interesting points, the Birgir of Þórarinsson came on. I'm going to start by doing a little piece on it as a little bit. The senator began his talk with, pointing to a chapter in the paper with the bill. I agree with that. A senator says it's a very difficult chapter. This should take into account the uncertainty involved, the uncertainty issues particularly in connection with Baltrexone, British exits from the European Union, and its impact. It refers to the commercial war of the United States and China, which reviews economic development in business countries, and it is of course important to make this statement in the bill we address. Hv. A senator then linked this uncertainty with the economic predictions we make and lay down when we put out a financial bill and build expenses and income on it. Hv. A senator who serves on a financial committee went through this work, where the government inserts an uncertain gap, right for meeting this, and made it clear that other predictions were not taken into account and that some average forecasts were made. Then there we were -- wasn't it, was it? Senator? - Just consideration for others predicts it when it happens. The budget was going through these uncertainty issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u30	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. Admittedly, it is quite right. A senator's increase in uncertainty, and it was necessary because of the uncertainty that lies ahead in economic affairs. I think it's true, in the work ahead of the budget board, that more economic forecasts are being reviewed, the predictions of the intelligence departments of banks, etc. When we were studying these things in connection with a financial program, it was evidently found that these forecasts were not in agreement, and in fact there was a significant difference between whether the banks went through the economy or whether it was the Hagroom. So it is very important in the budget that these items are carefully examined. Because, like a whale. A senator rightly mentioned it; it is just as uncertain in international trade as it really does have an effect. And that is also true, just because people have been referring to important climates, that they affect the water supply, and that the temperature of the sea has an impact on fish stocks. It would be normal for you to now, in view of that, e.g. that there was considerable impact and uncertainty about hairy fishing during the next season would be further research at the Marine Research Institute for media such factors as this; just as it is taking on increased expenses for climate change. I'm just calling the carbon bill, it's being raised right now. It's being raised by almost 400 million. K. Since it is over the years, there is also a point we need to consider in connection with the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u31	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator responds and wants to proceed with this only through the uncertainty gap and the actions under which the policy was changed. Here in this financial bill, we found the fact of the Supreme Court. The government has yielded from its original policy 0.9% rest, the proportion of GDP, up to 30 billion. And then there's an uncertainty vector built into a policy to face the uncertainty of the upstairs, and we went over in a previous answer. I wanted to draw this out because we're going to experience what we're looking at in Iceland's economic management, where there's strong evidence in the financial declines of the Federal Bank, and then we're going to be seen with the financial agenda to meet this brief swing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u32	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. Certainly, the Supreme Court was properly measured. The minister of finance when he said that it would be good for him to see that the state's debt was greatly improved and that his interest had been settled. We will not minimize its importance and will respond well when we enter an uncertain economic era. Regarding the course that was certainly reviewed in the light of all of this, it is never knowing what evolution will be, if it needs to be revised again. It's impossible to say, but signs are coming up, as shown in this excellent financial section, that things could get even worse. And you can read it out in this case that it is more likely to happen. So I think there's a need to look at this in connection with the budget, whether the uncertainty gap that was put on is really enough. [[The president calls.]] As the situation is now, there is evidence, unfortunately, especially in international commerce, that the situation will get worse.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u33	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's tenants brought in much in their previous talk, end up taking enough of it when it comes to the matter of budgeting and some of these matters have been discussed here. However, I would like to continue the pressure involved in dealing with climate change. Hv. A senator specifically spoke of a carbon tax, and he believes that it will afflict some rather than others, which he naturally does. I believe that in the winter, we have a conversation about the budget, after discussing all the issues involved in climate matters much more than we have so far, both in connection with the actions proposed on the budget with green taxes but also with all the other issues that we address here and that these matters will just get heavier and heavier in the next cycle. I have a feeling that me and what. A senator may not always agree fully on the ways to go, but I also heard it. One senator was concerned about climate, and he put this in touch with the changes in marine life. That's why I'd like to ask. Senator, I know he has only two minutes to answer: "How would he, if in a position to do so, set priorities for action that the government can use, including, the government? with economic motivations, to respond to climate?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u34	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. That is a very interesting question and a touch of wood. I think the point is, what? A senator, that we can show the results of the tax system. I think that's a key part of this. I am convinced that citizens will be more understanding about paying environmental taxes when it is shown that they are effective and must also be equal in these areas. I think the total cost of fuel and automobiles is 50 billion. These are substantial amounts of money, and automobile owners are heavily taxed in this country. It's just a fact. At the same time, we see a cruise ship arriving in Reykjavík, infested with pollution and gasoline and diesel oil. I think the taxpayers can see it, and think, "Wait, I'm paying my dues to fight the climate." But at the same time, there's a cruise ship that's going to be contaminated in a relatively short time with 40,000 cars or about 40, I don't know the exact number. We must do this in ways that enable us to make progress. I think that's a key part of this. All agree that climate change and global temperature increase are serious. This affects our whole life. I think the brief answer is that in general the tax returns need to be able to prove that it is effective.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u35	Mr. President. I think it's the highest. The financial minister has done well that we have certainly achieved certain results when it comes to electrical evasion. I think the results, however, have to be much more successful. I'm of the opinion that to some extent we must continue to experiment with these issues into the future because climate affects all of us and the whole community. I'm not so optimistic that I believe that everything we decide now will necessarily result in the best results. Of course, we must learn from experience. I asked him why. A senator to describe to me his proposal to see how he saw the scene, and he named the cruise ships. I agree that the cruise ships are polluted. Is that something we might want to consider? Senator? [[The president calls.]] Do we have to put higher spells on the cruise ships that come here so that they will pay in line with the pollution they cause?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u36	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. Hv. A senator mentioned the cruise ships, and I would like to agree with the highest level. Secretary of finance when he said that we should try to use our domestic energy and help it connect with electricity when they arrive at docks, so they don't have to drive diesel machines that pollute. We can work hard in that regard. Just as it's supposed to be to strengthen home loading stations, etc., which is only positive. There are certain things we can do to prevent the ships from spreading as much as they certainly do. The point is that this shows that there are paradoxs in these matters that we must overcome so that the public will be involved in this great project, which, of course, involves taxation, in full agreement, and know that there is a fight against a particular disaster. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] She'll have to be successful, that's what matters, and that's what we get advice from the leading experts in that topic.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u37	Mr. President. We in the United States have a lot to do with the 2020 budget bill. In fact, we made adjustments in our budget to a financial program on which the budget is based. They included two main functions, defending the well - being of down cycle and, on the other hand, investing in the future, education, innovation, research, and ambitious climate plans. The reasonable suggestions were all taken, and we have an unrealistic budget that seems to be based on wishful thinking that the economy will be better in the next year than there is any chance. As mentioned earlier, it is not only a uncertainty about domestic sizes, tourism, and other business projects, and employment opportunities that are down cycled but also a sign of commercialism in larger countries. As we have seen, this subject is discussed in the budget. It refers to global economic uncertainty as being more uncertain at this time and the scope of the government's largest economic systems to cope with my tragedy. For this reason and because of uncertainty in individual sectors and market markets within the country, the economic outlook of 2020 is more likely to change to a worse degree than it will improve. For example, in the days when the vice president of the United States brought us home, China and the United States, we became tangible warnings. That business war increases the likelihood of a recession in an investment and of a job market in our major business countries. In addition, there is uncertainty as to how Britain's eviction from the European Union will be performed. Without agreement, exits will lead to economic problems in Britain that once again affect other countries, including the U.S. Iceland. The budget bill does not show how to deal with a worsening situation and no steps shown in the bill to prepare for a strong downturn. The only thing we know about how to react to worse economic forecasts is what is at the highest level. The Secretary of Economics and Economics said that after a presentation on the bill September 6, the result was both on the pay and income side and even on the worse. It doesn't have much transparency. What does this mean, Mr. President? Further cuts in the welfare system? Nothing is given up, but it is neither confessed nor denied. It is unlikely that the initiative in the budget of all uncertainty and the possibility that the situation will be worse than the bill does, but will take no measures to protect and ensure that those in need of the State's services will not be allowed to pass through the health and welfare systems. There is no requirement for those who were allowed to enjoy the swing, for them to contribute to the decline. The wealthiest are guards. There are no changes presented in the income tax system to address the superpowers. No idea of a big estate tax, no change that makes more money from our resources. There are changes in fiscal taxes, not to increase, but to decrease. The idea of the Government of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir is to protect capital owners from inflation. They're not going to get the public from the government. The fact is that about 5% of the population share almost as much as the other 95% combined, and their property has continued to grow over the past few years. Iceland is by far the most remote of all northern countries when it comes to dealing with disconcerting. The union strongly criticizes the government's policy to enforce the welfare system and keep pensioners far below the minimum but defends the richest people in the country. The government groups promised an improved pensioner for elections, but pension pay is now under $250,000. during a month, everyone must agree that the sheets are needed to improve. Only those who live alone can reach 300,000 dollars. The target with chores. And again, I want to remind you that about 70% of pensioners who are less desirable are women who have worked part - time with household chores in the past or who have been working at home for some reason. Among the most prominent are women of foreign background. This group is in great difficulty, has limited resources, and is able to make progress. The budget is suggested that pensions only increase 3.5% by the year, while the lowest salary increases further, by 5.7%, three months later, or on April 1, and the lowest remunerations increased by April 1. The gap between the poor and the rich and the government seems to be thrilled with that development, if I understood the highest. Secretary of finance just here during the discussion earlier today. Mr. President. According to law on public finances, we are under obligation, according to 18. .................................................................. It should be guided by the high cost of equality with economic gain but of discrimination. I allow myself to doubt that the aims of the fueled budget have been used to negotiate the 2020 fiscal bill. It is enough to include the introduction to various public institutions where large women's classes work, while injections are carried out where men mainly operate. The number of jobs in the great women's classes is increasing, while governments meet up with more opportunities for men to work down the road. We in the Union celebrate the reduction of insurance costs, but we also call for increased support for smaller enterprises in innovation and research. When it comes to health care, the government must dress in a crisis. It's not enough to get to the top. A health minister is all of which are willing to be made, and money needs to be followed, and a good look at the management of health - care problems and the need to care for care. It's nice to build a new hospital, but it's absurd to take the billions of new ones and put them on business floors, remuneration and remunerations, and then boast that there's never more to the medical system. Health agencies throughout the country have a business problem, but local circumstances depend on it. The hospital, everyone's hospital, has a major business problem. This year's Hospital continues to fit into problems as a result of too low budgets in budgets of the year. It is predictable that this year's cap will be less than 4 billion. No one has had to go into the Land Hospital or their family members stay in the trouble of the staff. It's bad for the staff themselves, but also for the patients, and it's sad to look at the maintenance procedures this year's National Hospital faces. Here are some examples: continuation of up-to-date, special share-separation options, maintenance of drug costs, reduction of research and imaging, maintenance of products, equipment and software purchases, canceling shifts. There's a problem. members of the council are really satisfied with the image set up here, or are they going to demand that the situation be corrected? I hope the results will be based on the work of a budget committee on the bill and that they realize that it is not more important for society to protect rich people from tax increase than for elderly and sick people. The government's financier doesn't fulfill promises made of microchip, students, or family members, and hospitals, aging institutions, and schools, nor does any of them play in a mass education industry, as schools and college funds are reduced. The increase to the elderly is due to an increase in these groups. Additions for rehabilitation services down. They also make contributions to the rightful care of the disabled and increase to the U.S.A. from this year onward, although there is clearly a need for the money to deal with addictions. Developmental cooperation funds are reduced, including for transporting funds from the poorest countries in the world to military building at Keflavík Airport. There is no great dignity over the government decision. The contribution of the Icelanders to Development is far from the United Nations standard for contributions from rich nations to the poor, but the United Nations standard is about 0.7% of national income. How could the government ever conclude that it would be a good idea to reduce donations to the general law when both citizens have grown to a high level of law enforcement because of the rise in the number of tourists? And they talk about increasing surveillance and funding agencies but then making the budget requirements for the same institutions. It's time to sell the banks, Mr. President. Let us not forget that it took just four years for a private bank to drive an Icelandic community. We have to keep the taxpayers, the state funds and depositors from funding the most risky bank transactions. The bank barn taught the nation to change the banking system so that it serves the interests of the public, not just those who want access to public savings. Think about selling an investment part of the system after the change, but not before. Who will trust the Independence Party to reinvigorate the banks? Does everyone in the board do that? Is that so?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u38	A respectable president. I'd like to mention a couple of factors that came out of the question. Senator. First, the failure of the budget is an answer to what is to be done. I must say, I find this a bit farfetched on the subject here today. We've got financial policy. We've got a space of uncertainty. If it helps to deepen understanding what would happen if the economic recession became more severe, I have mentioned it here today that the basic balance of state funds, i.e. The situation before the payment of capitalists and other such factors has not been as strong as we see at the economic growth we live in. This means that we're fine enough to yield something left over by the equation, and it's gonna take a lot more time. Then, how it is referred to as financial policy is another matter. Of course, it depends on the extent of the impact of whether we are going to hit the financial goals for survival. With this, I'm saying, there's nothing wrong with it, if the foundation of the budget and financial plan fail, if economic forecasts are wrong and the downturn becomes deeper, that the state fund helps to promote demand in the economy by being driven for some time on the opposite side of zero. This is to say whether or not there will be severe surgery. I think it's important that we come out of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u39	Mr. President. I understand. So a minister will become the forecast of the future in October worse than the one that the budget rests on them if a government fund is run in the minus, in a sliding business, and the business is funded by loans, and the debt collection begins again? What I have criticized and criticized about this financial bill is that the values under which I live under public financial laws seem unappreciated; transparency, caution, and self - control. We need to be more effective in coping with problems during times of uncertainty. Now it's at the top. Minister, if I understand him correctly, if we get into trouble, we're not going to cut down in the welfare system, we're going to lay down a government fund. I would have chosen that before we went back to collect debt, we would have used the means of earning money that we have and that we're obvious. Mr. President. Even if we're looking at the economy, and it's perfectly normal to stick to one economic project and make no sense of confusing them all together, we can be more careful, and we're simply made to do so under official financial laws. We are designed to be cautious, and we are designed to contribute to the sustainable development of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u40	A respectable president. What I want to draw attention to, and I mentioned in my first speech, it is that economicism itself assumes that if economic forecasts fail and that measures cannot be taken, it does not seem normal to require measures to meet them, the result could be negative. My view is that it can be quite normal under such circumstances. But we're here discussing things that no one is predicting, none of the fortune-tellers of this budget bill that we set up, neither the Hausp Service nor any of the others who are employed, and a picture is drawn in the economy section on this, assuming that next year's contractions. I'd like to give it up, because this is a bank sale, that sale is an opportunity to get rid of a lot of money and go to an introduction to the infrastructure. [[The president calls.]] You ask yourself, "What is it? A senator is simply opposed to going to the bank sales and getting rid of money to set priorities again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u41	Mr. President. I object to being sold into banks before we have put it down to see exactly how the banking system will develop over the years and how it will best serve the public in the country. I don't want the banks sold in the form they are today. I want them to be divided up and the state will seize the opportunity they have now, when they have most of the banking system, and separate business banking from investment banking, that the business of the bank will be financed by loans, and that services to the public, cheap and good service to the public, while investment banking will be financed in another way. And after the system's replaced, let's have a chance to sell the investment part.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u42	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A new Oddný Harðardóttir for her excellent introduction to this discussion. I was going to enter the debate on uncertainty, but the highest. The minister responded. That's what a senator's got to do with it. I can say things, but I'm gonna make two comments. Hv. A senator noted that the Conspiracy's ideas had been rejected in connection with a government budget, and if I had just noticed, she mentioned the ideas of protecting the welfare and education and innovation and that their emphasis is missing here. So I refuse. I think education and culture rarely been or never as strong on the program as we see in this bill as we have agreed on in the past. Governments. I mention measures to nurture the teaching work and encouragement to teach. I give you support for publishing. I intend to increase the equation to the Icelandic loan system. I intend to improve the environment of the individual media. I'd like to make a donation to college and college, contributions to professional studies, the grammatical project to promote Icelandic as official, the action programme followed by, and the interpretation that we agreed on here, and other matters I could mention. If we look solely at the expansion of our budget, we will have blessedly added funds to support innovation and research. And I agree with what. A senator that it's very important, that we agree completely with each other. I refuse, therefore, that this is not part of the program on this bill or the previous budget that we have agreed on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u43	Mr. President. There's a lot of talk about education and culture, but when we start peering into the numbers, they just don't get the point. I find it interesting that a contribution to high school literally declines from year to year. At any rate, this does not give us the hope of a grand education. I completely agree that we need to put more emphasis on professional education. Our primary focus is education when we look at changes that the fourth industrial revolution will bring. There, the education system must succeed and be willing to accept people and train them to cope with the changes that will become more rapid and will take place very quickly in the coming years. I'm sorry, but I don't see that the education system is enabled to take on the big role it needs to play, not with the funds it puts in the budget bill. It needs to be done even more. If we are to successfully cope with the changes ahead so that there will be no more trade - trade society here, so that people who lose their jobs will be able to educate themselves and improve their skills in a job market, we must put more in education, both in primary education and also in the ongoing education and professional education.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u44	V.E.G. President. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir The importance of education is in agreement with the Harðardóttir of Oddný new G.. I'm just going to reiterate that education and culture have been very clear on the program for this highest level of education. Governments, tops. Education and cultural minister than ever. I'm telling you, I'm telling you. It is wrong that we have not increased our contributions to school, college, and college. Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! We linked this innovation and research and we're looking at the wide range of expenses over a period of time. Governments and if we take it together, it's 17.6% but framed other expenditures for the priorities are 16%. In this bill of 36 billion, high school has increased by 5 billion since the highest. Government took over. There are numbers. We're running out of time. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to come in many more things, but I didn't. A senator in many places.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u45	Mr. President. Of course, we're going to look at the budget bill, but I can't see the numbers I've considered shortening the high school stage and the savings that the system changed gave its way to the system. I don't see it. I also don't see the numbers given before college that we're achieving the OECD average as promised. We're a long way from the Northland average. I'd like to remind you that contributions to cultural, art, and youth are down and that they are to reduce the next five years according to financial programmes as planned. Government officials have agreed in this room. I can't see this big drive, neither in education nor in culture, nor in youth.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u46	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir In many parts of her talk on financial matters, the daughter of Oddný Harðardóttir naturally and nothing unusual about it. She was critical and gave some suggestions on things that she prefers to go on the budget, and that's just fine. Hv. A senator is in a position of government, and he's supposed to give us support, and I listened. I'd like to mention a few things, such as that capital tax has been raised in the time of this government, from 20% to 22%, and his income has been rising. That's what needs to be done. It is also quite clear that the objective of this government is that the proportion to development cooperation should be 0.35% of GDP. I'll be keeping a close eye on the budget because I'm taking our place now that we're following the policy in the budget. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the Parliament on several points because she was rightly critical of her speech. I'd like to hear a little bit of what we're talking about. A senator of the measures presented here for green taxes and climate. I think that's a discussion we have to take now and continue with. In my opinion, we are taking an enormously important step, but we will have to continue in this direction. [[The president calls.]] I want to hear a point of view. It belongs to a senator and what he or she suggests in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u47	Mr. President. Hv. A senator noted that this government raised the capital tax and that it had returned more income. It was increased by 2 percentage points, from 20% to 22%, but the income is expected to decline from 32 billion to 30. In addition, it is proclaimed that the tax stock should be modified so that capital owners are protected from inflation. As I said in my speech earlier, the public will not be able to get such tractors, but those above the credit market in the capital payoffs will be protected in particular. I don't think that's good politics. Development teamwork. Yeah, I hope you don't mind. While a senator stands up on a budgetary committee, the objective of the government is far below the standards of the United Nations. The UN standard is 0.7% of national income. We're a long way under there. Hv. A senator asks for action on climate. I agree that we need to be motivated to speed up the change, and I agree that the government needs to lead the bus. The public has shown that he is willing to participate. But I need to do much better, and I want to mention two things I miss not seeing in this financial bill. It's, for example. the strength to reject electricalvation. Earlier in the discussion today, pollution was reported from cruise ships, etc. For electronics to decline, more public capital is needed. And I miss seeing no strength at Icelandic garden, and that should, of course, be part of climate policy, but also part of food policy. [[The president calls.]] I could mention many more than these two things yell at you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u48	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator that for the future, we need to do better in developing cooperation, and I've talked about it so far, and I'm not going to stop doing that if my squad is in government. Therefore, I rejoice over the success we had in raising our donations, for this is of utmost importance. But we need to go further in that direction. I find the suggestions interesting. A senator puts it this way regarding what can be done in climate matters. But I see that she also supports the actions proposed in the budget, even though she wants to see more work done for the future. Finally, I'd like to mention a little bit, because of what you're doing. The senator did not introduce it in his talk, and I found it a little interesting, the tax changes that are being made following the biographies and whether or not. A senator does not believe that there is an important step to balance the terms of the country and the extra income of those in the lowest level of income. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u49	Mr. President. Iceland is raising relative donations for development based on national income. But national income is rocking up and down, and it is more about to go down with us now. There's a tiny bit of fake in using a percentage of income and saying we're doing better. Hv. A senator mentioned a tax change brought on by unions. I think the progress was more positive than it was shown here this spring when all of this was being discussed. It is good and blessed, but it is unacceptable that we should not look at the other end and that we do not intend to make the requirements for the people who truly enjoyed the excitement and who are adding property and accepting that it will provide its righteous share through the income tax system when we are going downhill. [[The president calls.]] It's unacceptable. [[The president calls.]] But, of course, I welcome changes that will benefit those who are the most incomeless.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u50	Mr. President. Katrín's Jakobsdóttir's government has worked hard to bring about national wars, matters that have suffered because this has not been spent enough to strengthen the foundations on which our community is built, the so - called infrastructure, as well as political instability has been high in recent years by frequent government changes. Added to this are new and extensive tasks because of the change in climate change. The financial bill as the highest. The secretary of finance earlier this morning takes all of this into consideration, and it follows that in our time a long - term agreement in the general labour market, known as biographies, followed by the commitments of the State to their delinquency. Already, this government has brought the number of projects to the fore, just as its two last budgets testify. At the same time, it is useful to see that the state funds have been fired with handsome rests in recent years, already slowing down the economy. The government's going to be in balance next year in spite of the shocks this year, but we all know these traumas, a total failure in hairy and a problem in air traffic, both bankruptcy and the quietness of the Boing Max machines, and, of course, this is affecting the state of business. But here, despite the factors I mentioned earlier and as a community we still have more than we owe, a positive business is still to be made. Government funds have never borrowed loans with lower interest and are well equipped to cope with recession in the economy. It is my opinion that this is a national level of wisdom, considering how the economy is being acted right now. I'd like to mention that, because last night we discussed the policy debate with the Prime Minister only referred to a dollar rate, they are expected to increase by 2.5%, despite the increase in the index price of consumer prices being larger, i.e. 3.4%. This affects everyone and even the wealth of the Kingdom, for he gets only a little less money than others make by making money. When it comes to your budget bill, I'm going to go for a big one, not with an unlimited speech session. I'd like to start with a few things that all of us are willing to work on and increase the equation. First, I'd like to discuss a tax system change on income tax from individuals suggested in the budget bill. These changes are part of the biographies agreements and aim to establish a new three-stage tax system. Thus, there is a new tax step that reduces the tax burden of the income of the largest group and thereby increases its provisional income. The change is now taking place, and the remainder of the change will take place in 2021. They are being speeded up from what was spoken of earlier, that they would come to action in three years. Now it's being shortened to two years, and I think it's a very positive thing. It's like the highest. In its historical history, the minister of finance mentioned that this change does not adversely affect any income group, but it is best for the most efficient group. In addition, support for children's families is increased by taking the first step out of two in extending the birthmark to 12 months. It is an interest in all children's families and all children in the country, but research has shown that one of the most effective ways to reduce the likelihood of a child's poverty is to bridge the gap in care from the end of obstetrics and up to high school, as well as to raise child care benefits. On January 1, this year, child reforms increased and will rise again with these funds. Besides, I don't think it's possible to discuss the budget and balance without discussing our health systems, but its structure continues. There is an increase in contributions to service to the elderly. It continues to strengthen the health care system and make it the first stop to people in the medical system, something that I think is generally at peace with in the community, across all political views. Mental health comes first by continuing to develop a mental - health team throughout the country. The payment of patients will continue to be reduced, and this is an enormously important equation, since all of us should have access to health care regardless of our economic situation. In addition, funds are put into the introduction of new drugs and funds to improve health care for prisoners. It may not be one of the big things in this financial bill, but it is still an enormously important subject. Then the construction of the Land Hospital is under way to the next level. Of course, it is part of a physical structure. Although the money that goes to concrete is not the only thing that can be looked at, it is an investment and a structure that cannot be avoided. But I would like to use my last minutes here to discuss climate matters specifically, end the future with everything that is going on with them. These budgets clearly show that we are serious about doing our part in dealing with climate change. This government has an ambitious climate policy, and the budget shows that it is being carried out. We are going to make significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions by promoting transport energy exchanges and by making our country a nothing - of - a - carbon system in 2040. In order to achieve this development, the priorities and policy needs to be explained by the state, rural and private sector, the economy, and direct action to reduce emissions and pollution. The financial bill contains increased support for energy exchange, but it also has plans to cover waste and pollution costs, such as fluorinated greenhouse gases, which are just what I had to learn this week. Foiled greenhouse gases are used to form in cooling systems. At the same time, we will increase our commitment by making up the broken land and restoring wetlands. Everyone is wondering about the climate, what can be done, and my teenager at home asked me that the other day if this government couldn't start paying people to pollute, to raise taxes on pollution, and to use the money that thus can be used to restore wetlands. We are talking about 14 - year - olds in elementary school who are discussing what you can do, how you can use the tax system to counteract climate change, and thus contribute to the fulfillment of the Paris Convention, and to master the climate. I think it's a good thing. I love it when youths in their midst are discussing the budget and how they can be used to influence our community. [[The president calls.]] I'm taking my first place in a budget board, and I look forward to a huge amount of work there to ask for.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u51	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Although 69 C.E. pricing on social security is expected to increase annual pensions based on annual remuneration rates, if higher than prices, it is not to be better. When the Union and the Left Green were together in government and collective agreements were made in 2011, pensioners also received ups at the same time as others were eligible. According to the budget, a 3.5% increase in annual pension is expected, while those in the lowest pay range receive 5.7% on April 1, 2020, and they also received an increase in April 1st. It is assumed that in January 2022, those on the lowest pay scale will be 390,000 k. per month. In case of a moment. The rulers intend to stick to this, to keep those who are already poorer than the rest, I think we are in bad business. I want to ask you why. A senator who is now reassigned to a financial committee is not going to review this position on the committee. We have data showing that by looking at the ideal microorganism, there have been a 60 - 60% failure in the last 20 years. Will she consider whether the development of the budget - bill will still contribute to that injustice? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u52	Mr. President. The daughters of Social Security are raising 3.5% by these budgets. The terms of this group were significantly added at the end of the last assembly by reducing the value of the special progress, and this change has a positive effect on part of the group. There are dressbacks that also help micro-energy pensioners, even if they must be able to think that they are not benefiting everyone. However, a great deal of emphasis has been placed on reducing the impact of revenues of the specific production process, both at the Parliamental Hall and also on the ECU. There are also rewards that benefit such a group. There are also changes in income taxation in the budget bill, as I did earlier, which will benefit pensioners like other underpay groups, as well as housing and health care procedures. Health issues have emphasized the need to lighten the plans for pension patients. This is all important when we consider the overall picture of the ideal micro-organization candidates. All of this, I said, we haven't put the dot over the i's and come to the place where we're not going to do more for this group. It must, of course, continue, and I hope that we will continue with the work being carried out in a group for the changes to the social security system on how to improve the benefit of this group in particular and on which it will be built. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u53	Mr. President. I have to admit that I have no problem with my worries and doubts that this government is going to improve the interests of the poorest in the country when I listen to the highest power. Secretary of the budget is talking about the general tax changes in the same antiquities as are asked to the most poor people in Iceland. These include those who have to rely solely on insurance payments and are below $250,000. Only those receiving the compensation will be entitled to about 300,000 dollars. I was disappointed with the answer. Senator. It is not justified to point to general action, it is necessary to examine this group specifically, and I hope it will be done even if this is the case. I want to ask you why. Because she mentioned them in her talk. Between 2013 and 2018, the number of children who were eligible for children was reduced by 13,000. By the change made this year, they would increase by 2,000, but when I called in the middle of a year to study the number, they had increased to 1,000 in 2019 C.E. An additional 1 billion would hardly do much more than slightly increase them, so we have a long way to reach the year 2013, but the step we took was in order to balance the child's status with those who do not have children. I'm asking why. A senator whether it is acceptable to the government's appreciation for the International Cash Fund as a model for child reform, not for the Northern States.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u54	Mr. President. I disagree. A senator in that I believe that, of course, the whole system must be viewed when it comes to pensioners, like all other groups in the community, when we talk about changes in system systems, such as social security changes. Microenergy pensioners are part of the community and any general action that is under control should influence this group. It is not always meant to talk about specific actions for the group. I believe that the next thing I have to do, and I know that it has started working on it, is working to improve in particular the interests of those who live in the lowest financial resources. It is wide within this group, as in others, and I believe that this is where the budget has to be used especially for those who live in the lowest terms because the terms of those who can make a career have improved by changes in the specific future. In the case of child damage, they have been increasing to those with the lowest provision of the income. It is, in my opinion, the perfect priorities and the tremendous good. Then we can discuss whether to go further in that regard. I think there's something that needs further discussion, but the priorities presented in this budget are just right. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u55	A respectable president. I'll tell you what. A senator welcomes to the budget board. Hv. A senator mentioned earlier that he was in opposition to government opposition and said that he was listening. There is now a greater proportion of members of the Parliament in all committees. I thought about their role, for they certainly are also senators with a surveillance role, like all other senators, such as the U.S. Assemblymen. There is no difference between those in charge and those in the government. I wondered what it meant to have a member of the Parliament admirer of the government's opposition, saying that he would listen and how he would play together with the Senate's general surveillance and maintenance role in the tribunal. I was interested in it and would be interested in taking such a small talk, especially about the introduction of the law on public finance, as I mentioned in answer to the minister of finance. We've been over a lot on a budget committee, and I'm looking forward to having a place to say. That is exactly what a member of the Committee is doing, for there are a number of additional projects that remain. It is the priorities of projects, cost-and-exploitation analysis, the lack of the report on the future development of population sizes, and the details involved in the entire budget process, to a year-old minister who is, in fact, relatively useless, if you are to consider the benefits of putting money here and there, if the analysis of the impact is to be missing. The role of maintenance involves this lack of induction and proper implementation of laws on public finances; how it feels. That's what a senator's situation is?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u56	Mr. President. In fact, I make it my habit to try to listen, no matter what the person who speaks, whether he belongs to a government or a position of government. I believe, however, that it is extremely important to listen when someone talks that disagrees with you or is also in the role of pointing out what might be done better at the Council or at the administration of the State. So you can't read too much that I've been talking to you about it. Harðardóttir I listened to what she was saying. Of course, I also play a part in the administrative and administrative activities, but of course, I have other ways of having a conversation with them to make up the highest. A minister who also serves as a member of my body and shares my views there, as well as in this symposium. I reiterate that I think it is very important to listen to things that are critical, but I do not always have to agree with them, even if I listen to them and see how to work on them. Then I just want to say what. Senator that I'm going to have to put myself in the next few days and the next few weeks before. It's a legal committee. [[The president calls.]] I've only fallen in there at a single meeting, and I know that there's a lot I have to learn there, and it's very fast.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u57	A respectable president. This is very interesting, listening and hearing. And then there are other ways, so I think it's a little big, too. What makes one senator different ways of caring for his role and role as a member of Congress? Is it really normal after all? Why don't we be a little more formal in our dealings with the executives in order to keep everything on the table with the way decisions are made? I think, for example. that the problem with the National Court was, in part, that there wasn't everything on board, there were other forms of communication within the Ministry, etc. Which we found out later, and some had access to, but others didn't. When I consider these points regarding the promotion of public financial laws, I wondered: " How will I be able to hear them? Is it based on simple reading of public financial laws? I have mentioned that there are problems with various articles that are not filled with financial and financial contributions. How do you hear what you're saying? A senator criticizes about what can be done? Does she agree that these points are lacking, and what ideas does she have about what can be done to get to the right place?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u58	Mr. President. So to be clear, a decision-making is open and we'll be taking over the conference at the Senate Hall. That's the way it should be, and that's how it must be. What I mean, however, is that I can converse with my own platoon members with ideas, speculations, viewpoints, discussions, and reimburse them. This does not change the fact that the decisions are taken to a council hall at a vote after a discussion here. These two must not be confused at all. Just as I have access to my team members in order to have a conversation, so I do. A senator has access to his own group members to have a conversation there. But it doesn't change how we work to make the formal decisions. In terms of a change in public financial law, I feel that it is important not to lose sight of the fact that government laws and everything related to finance are about to serve the community and that we need to have them as useful to society. We are not supposed to tailor society to public financial law. If there's some discrepancies, I think it's necessary to look into public financial laws, considering that it's always the foundation society. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then we have all the rules and laws that we use to influence them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u59	A respectable president. I guess the secretary of finance will be here any minute. I'd like to start off with the compliment and maybe he'd like to hear at least That. It is evident that the construction of this financial bill has taken into account some of the indications. These include dissociation of so - called pay bridges, where they try to cut better the amount indiscriminately. However, the presentation is not exactly the best option. You have to set a small amount of work to extract from text which amount fits in each chamber, what goes on in a budget, what goes on for limited expenses, etc. You have to put it together yourself to see if it fits. When it doesn't match, it doesn't necessarily make sense what a fool you did, whether it needs something, or if you put it in the wrong compartment. But this certainly is better than it was last. chapters 1, 2 and 3 of this series are very good. It is generally available, precise, and informative text. However, when I reviewed the tax changes, I was able to do something wrong and to conclude that there was an increase in taxes in 2020. I can only blame myself because I drew a little too early conclusions from the numbers I saw. In my defense, these numbers would have been allowed to be in the budget itself, but not just in some sort of corneal announcements to the side. I even saw other errors in those corneas, and that certainly does not help. Having accurate figures of character discounting each year that the tax changes take place in the bill itself would have been helpful and would have prevented a misunderstanding that I saw more bottles on, for example. in an article in the morning newspaper. If I could make one general suggestion on the implementation of a budget bill, I'd like a comparison between numbers to be more uniform, both when comparing numbers in previous years and on the merits of the figures, and especially that this comparison is wider. When demonstrating figures for the future, you must also show a basic view of how everything would look if nothing had been changed, e.g. tax changes have to show how personal discounts, tax limits, and tax returns would have become unchanged in the year 2020 and 2021, and then compare them with the changes so that you can see the difference between income groups and so on between year and year. What I really want to talk about this time is how far we are from fulfilling public financial laws. We'll get in that direction. I'd like to talk about how we got there soon enough to get there. In this regard, I believe that the government has to do one thing, first of all, show us a plan of induction to help us fulfill the laws on public finances. It is a fact that the laws on public finances have not been applied at the moment. All deadlines under the law are gone. I can clearly hear the excuse that other countries have taken ten years for induction and such. I don't want to hear that excuse anymore. We didn't give ourselves those ten years, that's just the law. If people insist on having a ten - year introduction, they should submit an induction program that we knew would be followed. The law is in effect and should be followed. You have often heard that no law has been broken, but when it does, everyone keeps quiet. How do we get there soon? For the first time, the induction schedule is yours. Second, stop what we've always done and start working under the law, which says the induction process if it is submitted. Based on what I see and hear, there is a lot of time in the budget to do things that don't have to be done and that would be less time - consuming if things were started that are also time - consuming. In this case, I refer mainly to policy development in which special emphasis is placed on the cost-benefit analysis of public projects. In the meantime, everything else in my opinion is just a fill-up. It takes a lot of time and effort to make these cost-and-benefit analysiss for all public projects, but that's why it has to be the first and the most important thing to do. If we start doing something else, there will never be time to do what is most important, the cost analysis that will result in priorities. Then I can tell you: Show me your priorities by means of cost analysis, and I'll show you the budget based on that record, just by a mirror. Here you go, it's the budget. So we know what needs to be done. We know it's hard. I know a way to make it easier. For a few years, Piratar and I have been talking about what the economy is and what it's about. The system is inhumanally inhumane, and it is dry to use words such as gross domestic product, economic rhythm of the corrected element, and the like. It also refers to a cake that must always be grown and grown, despite the fact that most people are not allowed to see the cake and much less get a piece of it, at most. Pirats and I have talked about civilian pay, shorter hours of work, and stopping growing forever. Nothing can grow into the infinite. Earlier this year, we were given a name for our efforts when New Zealand first made money based on prosperity, as OECD measures it. It may be possible to criticize the name, but its contents are the most important ones. We in the Pirates had used OECD's biographies for some time in the implementation of Congress. They are part of OECD's prosperous frame of life, in English, '-Well-Being Framework'. The name, however, is not everything, but it is what has been chosen. It is the contents that matter. According to these biographies, it was obvious that there was a large imbalance between work and leisure in Iceland compared to the rest of the OECD nations. There, our bad situation was used to offer a suggestion for an assignment to improve that situation. Such policies could be something we should look at in the future. I had just been messing with a financial program and how unsurpassed government policy was in the program when I saw the news on New Zealand's welfare bill. Then the whole thing got ripped off. That was the name of the film we had discussed during the past few years, the big picture that was missing in our discussion. The standards we used, e.g. in our assembly for abbreviated workweek, to build government policy. These standards are the anchor missing in these policies, the one that is missing in addition to the baseline laws on government government government economic policies. We immediately set up a matter of Congress in order to introduce the prosperous set up of laws on public finances and its product should appear in Parliaments over the next few days. But when we began working on this change in government financial law, we became interested in other categories and turned it into a synonym to give more space for others interested in the case. OECD is pretty simple. In the background, there are a number of studies and data analysis. Simply put, it is a means of success for future happiness. It is based on natureism, manpower, social wealth and so capital and economic wealth, which is pretty much what we're doing right now. Nature refers to all the stings of nature that must contribute to the life and function of humans. Under it falls land, soil, plants, animals, minerals, and energy sources, according to the export of New Zealand. Man's function includes the function of people, knowledge, and physical and mental health that enables them to share fully in work, research, leisure activities, and community activities. This is the standard for it. Social wealth describes the rules and values that are fundamental to society and includes factors such as trust and legislation. In New Zealand it involves the union between the Crown and Maoría, that would probably be something else for us. Then there's cultural identity and relationships between people and society. Under material wealth, things like houses, roads, buildings, hospitals, factories, equipment, investments that create the nation's possessions that play a role in maintaining income and economic quality of life. Within this, the way we measure our present prosperity, the quality of life, and the physical situation. Quality of life includes health, balance of work and life, education and skills, social relationships, counseling and management, environmental quality, personal safety and mental prosperity. Economic situations include e.g. income, wealth, work, salary, and housing. This is what government policy means that prosperity should be based. This perfectly fits the official financial law in order to pursue policy policies. - It's way too short a time as I've complained before, and the Ministers get even less time, I think, so we could only rethink the time. I wanted to talk very briefly about the church meeting, which is somewhat insane. There I find three different figures on how to meet the church meeting. There are 783.5 million on page 8. 119, 856.9 million on page 20. 212 and 903 million, respectively. 140 in a follow-up. We have a problem with this. There is a contract that we have not seen, and we are to fulfill it in some way for many years to enter the future if we accept it without making any comments. It's a contract for an infinite amount of money for a lasting estate after all. I would like to be able to sell my house to the secretary of finance for an infinite payment on me and my descendants forever, but no one would make such a deal. [[The president calls.]] Yet we make such a deal with the church, and I think it's ridiculous.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u60	A respectable president. I'd like to begin by saying that it is important that government spending plans follow clear plans and that they are well planned, especially when new projects are involved. One of the projects we have used is the so - called reassessment of budgets, where we progressively review a large budget force at the state and ask if things can be done better, getting more for less, reorder, and reorganizing. Hv. A senator talks a great deal about the need for further cost-benefit analysis, and I think he's going quite far in saying that such an analysis could even answer all the questions, and then things would somehow work out for themselves. However, I have seen this, so politics is just about answering all the questions, no matter what the cost - making analysis is, because our view of society may not be exactly the same by where we have set our minds on politics. To some extent, this is about how society in the world in which we envision it will lead to the end that most people are happy for life. I think cost-and-exploitation analysis will, e.g. little helps to answer the issue of individual freedom, answer questions about the state's scope, whether the taxes are better than high taxes, or how far it should go in securing income or possessions equalized by administrative measures. Can we, through cost-benefit analysis, respond to such questions as whether it is a better option to increase the amount of money we make in pensions or, perhaps, to ensure further funding at the end of the purchase? [[The president calls.]] It's that kind of cheeky I think it is. A senator's a bit past the ground, even though I agree that budget plans should follow good analysis.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u61	A respectable president. Whatever the case, can we just overlook all that cost and profit analysis and make positive decisions about whatever we think? To begin with, the laws on public finances tell us to do this. Second, we can, through cost and profit analysis, establish politics and political agreement as such on the right and left, custody or whatever way you want to have it. Granted, methodology and such things can be criticized, and it would be very interesting if we could discuss it here too, but it will only be more apparent if there is a great difference between the different priorities between the right and the left or the market or the business on public terms. If there's a big difference between cost and profit analysis and a lot less money to run something on public terms and profits are far more relevant to politics. That's what I'm trying to say. If there is no difference between cost and profit from promoting something on market terms or official grounds, we can definitely take politics into account. However, when the difference is very large, if it is much less expensive to choose market systems and profits for government funds and society, for example. More about replacing the current official distribution device with a market shell, the option should be obvious. Public financial laws focus on the evaluation of all options. Then we should prioritize, and a political decision will definitely be made to choose one advantage over the other. Then the political decision, no matter what it is, is based on the profit we can get for our country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u62	A respectable president. I have to say, I think it's quite simple, although I don't want to belittle the fact that cost-and-a-news can serve their purpose. With this ideologies, I kind of feel that we have to make a difference to all possible options. We need to determine everything possible, from not doing anything to do absolutely much and letting the state, rural society, or some private person handle it, and cost-and-improve it all. Then we can choose between what we were thinking about doing or just let it go and do something else. The laws on government finance are just about that, in connection with the decision that you will follow and suggest at the council, that an attempt is made to demonstrate that this decision can go on. An endless comparison with all options, of course, is impossible. If you're just taking the fishing route for example, I think even cost-and-exploitation analysis of the marine equacy would lead to word exchange at the council because we don't necessarily see that the same arrangement gets as many plus as others would like to give it. [[The president calls.]] Suppose, for example, that if people wanted to take all the money from the fishing road and share it with the people, I could see a great flaw in this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u63	A respectable president. It is just as is usual for politics that are oversimplified on things and without the information that government laws on government finance rightly assume that they are part of policies, decisions, and priorities, we are simply guessing. How are we better able to make decisions without these data? To me, it's crazy. Yes, it may be hard to get into a lot of really many and accurate analysis of all options, but usually when you're doing this option analysis, the choices are probably the ones that are obviously there. You start by sorting only what is realistic and what is not, and then you take the options that are realistic and that are more efficient and accurate. Then you can bring a political argument about why it was left out, and it may be drawn in on that - or not. There are many factors, but making decisions and setting priorities without having these data is failure. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u64	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For this discussion, the Björn of Gunnarsson's Leví is very good. He was in opposition to the highest. Economic and financial secretary on what we've talked about in the past. The budget, the induction process, about the introduction of public financial law since our approval of the 2015 office and our record of the year 2016. I don't think it's just normal speculation. It's part of improving the process. It's all part of the financial process. Hv. A senator here brings up a basic picture and comparison, and there are a lot of things you look at, including that it is very helpful to have figures in comparison. The financial bill is very important, and it brings to a full range of topics, and we really need to determine which numbers we want to control. What do we want to do? I agree with you, too. A senator on a basic film, she always helps, and sort of everything you do when it comes to planning and policy. Then there's the size. I think that's a good thing, like the highest. The financial and economic minister entered his speech, that has been included in a text set out in a financial program that is part of the process and leads to a fundamental bill. In turn, this text is often very careful and professional, and it is very useful. But I'd like to hear more ideas about the cost-benefit analysis, I know that. A senator was opposed to the highest. This is what financial and economic secretary's got to do with it. I need a little more control over the way we make it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u65	A respectable president. Yes, we begin by considering just how the land is and how evolution is without change. That's our basic profile. IRS changes, for example, how would the tax system be and the collection in years if we didn't change anything? Then there are the proposed changes and the effects they would have. There may be a few options that the board has to choose when choosing a policy. At least she can explain why she chooses one option above another. In terms of cost - care and profit analysis, I refer directly to the opinion of a financial body that immediately mentioned this in the introduction of terms of financial planning. Prosperity and profit analysis can have a tremendous impact on the survival of the State Fund. It doesn't necessarily have to produce as much waste as it can if there's a cost and profit analysis, it's giving us a much greater plus for the future. There were some factors to support this action, and of course it was the reason that it was under law. It is very clear that this is a matter of government policy. Number one to take the goals there, to look at ideas in ways to reach them, to evaluate each one's goals, to evaluate the benefits, and to what cost is each way. How much will each way cost? What is the gain of every way? Then you can say: We make this option, not the other, because it simply comes out better, much better. If there is little difference, then a political decision must be made on which one is selected, and not on the other. The other, mentioned here, is a reevaluation of the current framework and has been accepted into the total height. Of course, we must always be considering it very carefully whether it is still making good use of the money and not just the new ones coming in or going out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u66	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I think it's worth just one Mass and a few talking about the induction process and we're talking about for three years. Of course, we're working by government law, I agree. A senator said that other countries that have gone this way may have made more space and perhaps we should have done it earlier in the process. But this is a bit of the Icelandic way, just to get this thing started and work on it. In this regard, we are moving on with this. But the reason I'm interested in this and I want to make up for it is that part of this work, what we need to build, is what we need at things, what we get for the money. It is, of course, linked to a reassessment of expenses. Hv. A senator came on a prosperous scale, and I would like to ask myself, " How does my life increase in financial work? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u67	A respectable president. The prosperity economy and the living standards below are clearly the beginning, there are basic conditions to be set on the measuring board. There are many studies responsible for the biomarkers of OECD. It's very easy to start there. We should be collecting these data together anyway, so it should be very easy to start there. In answer to the minister of finance earlier, it was said that the cost and profit are everything, but that's not what this is all about. It is about determining the costs and benefits of government policies, the changes that are being made to the present arrangement. The magnitude of that issue is much lower than it might have been put on the weather in the past. Besides, we always have this reevaluation project, which is just as important, there is an annual cost assessment. The key point is that when government policies and changes are being put into place in the present system, it is well explained why and what benefits we have from these changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u68	Mr. President. I'm trying to put myself into these ideas. A senator on the other hand on the economy and on the other hand, cost-and-benefit analysis. I want to start by saying that on the ground, I think it's very important to have good information about society and build on it, and I think the history of income is an example of a scene that is extremely important to have information about things. I'd like to ask you what. A senator into his ideas on cost-and-benefit analysis. I think it sounds like some sort of self-activating thing, or it can be for the government's sake. I think we always have to ask, "A cost for who and a reward for who? " How are the costs distributed in different groups, and how do they distribute in different groups? So it matters how it is, but not just some averages. Therefore, we always need to make political decisions about how we employ the budget. I'd like to pray. A senator is a matter of giving details about this and also about the prosperity of the economy. This is a term that we in the left movement have used and considered important, but it is then an objection to the economic growth economy we have used in the last hundred years and is related to how we can deal with our climate goals, since the cake is not always going on. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to pray. A senator is discussing his ideas in that political context.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u69	A respectable president. I can take my mind completely for a reason to have more accessible data. It may also be more accessible. You could take more basics, not just see charts and things, to play with them yourself, so you can even look at them yourself, e.g. if I had a slight change in income taxation here or there or in person's discount, I would like to see how it affected various groups. Hv. A senator connected the cost assessment with the benefit analysis and then the welfare system and the levels. No, this is not entirely self-efficient because there is a lot of work to be done in the cost-benefit analysis and to choose which parts to look at on distribution, etc. It is definitely political in which points are examined and which points would not and definitely would be political debates about it. Why didn't you take a look at that and that? asked. We want to see what the benefits were, not the other, but that way. There's a lot of things you can talk about there. There would be no self - activity. However, this combines these issues on the cost-benefit analysis and then the welfare system. In the economy, we have a wide range of standards that I listed in the above talk, the way life and work are, housing, social involvement, and so on. The goal of the government is to do better. We are going to take steps to improve the quality of our home. It is already measurable to see whether the measures will eventually take place. The proposed costs and benefits are needed, and then we choose to go this or the other way, or we may even add and do two or three of the measures that are proposed because it would bring us much more on these criteria, not just on the basis of interest. [[The president calls.]] We can see social benefits, even though they do not reflect exactly economic benefits.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u70	Madam President. I think, in the final words of what? A senator is something we can agree on, i.e. that there is a greater need for a better perspective than what is economic growth or, in fact, absolute economic dimensions. I look forward to an ongoing conversation about this. What I don't quite understand about the language of that day. A senator is what we must always face as a community, i.e. how we're going to make money for society. Will we do so with taxes or by having people pay for their services? Has a what? A senator's opinion of which to go in or that there is something to be included in this model? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm not quite sure that I agree with that. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u71	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are to respect the deadline. They're in the second round one minute when three respond.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u72	A respectable president. That's where the politicians come in. I say exactly, we can't choose in advance which way we're going. That's what I'm pointing out, that we act on it in advance that this is a better way without having any evidence to do that. When the evidence comes, we can see it and say: No, sorry, the other way is actually better than any ground we can look at. We'll never get very precise. It's just given. We live in a changing society that moves at an alarming speed so that things are definitely changing back and forth, but we try to make the best decisions based on the best data each time. It may be true that this route is good now, but in five years it will not be good anymore. There are other things that can happen in the meantime. This is the politics I'm trying to avoid, the political to guess in advance, before I get the information, which way is best. It's these old politics that I think we're supposed to avoid, and that's why right and left isn't important in the future. It's the data transfers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u73	V.E.G. President. We're here in 1st. about a bill for budgeting before 2020. The bill has, I think, may say, never to be presented with a financial committee and media as early as this, i.e. before it arrives on the council program. There is to some extent a sign of improved practice, a more efficient process in any way. Of course, it has its advantage that members of the Parliament have more time to study the bill, which is the very nature of the language and the scope of it all. Despite having had more time to review key areas and classes, I feel that in 1st. To look at the overall picture as it appears in the form of pay and income, as well as the influence and role of the State Policy in the context of economic policy, and to me feel that the debate has been a little there today, so far as we are concerned, using it for economic development in our economy, which is to some extent dependent on what is happening elsewhere in our major business countries. A report in section 2.3 with the bill will discuss economic development in our main business countries. Similarly, in my discussion, I feel that it is a natural approach to link it to the picture we understood in a financial discussion program for the 2020/2024 season. In a financial and financial study programme, we also made changes in financial policy, which built an uncertainty gap into a policy. It is designed to increase the dependability of planning, which then returns to the budget. This is important, and financial advice has repeatedly identified it. At that time, there was uncertainty in the travel service of WOW air and about hairy fishing and can be said to have us at the time we discussed the matter, and economic forecasts were changing rapidly, experienced the scene at the forward gate. An approved national budget is being proclaimed to stick to previous building and spending plans and to provide for the planned rest of the previous policy. This financial bill is, in fact, a confirmation of the plan, which is extremely important when we look for success and economic control. It has long been criticized that financialism and money policy do not play together. But now we see it happening, on the other hand, I'm talking about the law on public finance, if it goes down in this case, looking at this bill, meeting the improvement in economic growth or contractions, depending on how it works. It's in and it's confirmed in the bill. Third, at the same time, we look to the Federal Institute of Growth as a joint agreement with the money policy, and we see that in fact, responsible agreements have created the assumption that growth can be lowered, as the Navy has done. The main fruits of the World Bank have not been lower, as we have seen in the discussion. It may be asked, " Would it not be the same with regard to government policy and money policy if there was not for a wise plan of state funds, increased discipline, and perception, whether there was such interaction that we see in the Court's fallout program? ' Of course, as a result of less economic growth, such interactions would have been possible only for wise government economic policies, targeted plans, and budgets that meet the values set out in terms of paying off debt and reducing interest burden, thus strengthening the status of state funds. I think this is the big movie. I think it's the message. And this is important in the context of economic management. I have to present here a significant contribution to the labour market with responsible collective agreements. The conversation they had with the government about making a contribution to those agreements is now fully new thought and implementation of income taxation by new baseline and integrated consumer prices and products so that employees will enjoy their economic growth at the present time. These measures reduce the tax burden most by smaller income groups and intermediate groups. How productive it is to view only the image of how this works according to different types of wages! Clearly, the tax load goes down to over 900,000 dollars, from the lowest wage. Most of it is reduced to less income and intermediate income. It is very important to see an experience there. Not to be overlooked is the other side of the labour market, the business of an enterprise. There, the level of employment is below, and the insurance bill is a major factor in this. It will be reduced by 0.25 percentage points, by the same percentage as this year. These and others - there are prolongation measures, child reform and child - reduction rates, housing procedures, social housing structure, increased support to the early buyers, support for cold areas - do more than improve quality and quality of life. All of them have fallen to equalize and increase the equation, that we candidates place great emphasis on our course and then manifest themselves in this financial bill. This is also found in the covenants and actions of the government. The government is now leaving, as I came to, the proposed change from previous policy, from 0.9% of gross domestic product, approximately 30 billion, and restore the state funds in balance and, at the same time, can continue to fulfill the promises of a government covenant for increasedinvestment. I say continue because investments have been increasing throughout the term period from year to year, most of them for transport and communications. Health and well - being interests continue to focus on health matters, increasing power in the construction of the new treatment core of the Land Hospital, while 8.5 billion are assigned to Project 2020. It is important that we keep our eyes on such projects and not delay because all delays in such big projects can become costly. V.E.G. Governments focus on environmental and climate issues and work hard to prevent the impacts of climate change on the environment and the marine environment. There, research plays a key role and builds a new ocean vessel is an important contribution to further research in that field. The government follows this with real action, building wood, with green taxes. Of course, such taxes are always controversial, but they are part of them if they are going to get caught. Then nothing will be less than real action and will motivate them to make a common effort. However, these taxes are not designed to raise income but are intended to be the motivation for achieving faster transport energy exchanges. As soon as it is a pleasure to see the priorities of the Treaty developing in a financial program and then a financial bill of the projects I have introduced in my speech, priorities, and the promotion of health and welfare services, health policies, and services to the heads of the country, there are, of course, many other factors. Increases in the income market of elderly income, support of health care, increased donations to reduce the elderly's dental costs, campaigns for transportation, and large amounts of contributions to the seminary. Increased contributions to infrastructure development, related investments, law enforcement and land care, helicopter shopping, environmental and climate-related measures. And finally, I want to introduce innovation, research and education, where we're suggesting a great deal. In this regard, of course, we look to wealth, employment, and the future for economic growth. High education and actual operations are being taken to care of the teachers'work, finance the development of the loan fund to increase access and equalize students, the language action programme, support for publication, and changes in the environment of the environment of the environment. My education and culture are as strong on the program as ever. There is an increase in expenses for these measures in accordance with covenants and plans throughout the period, with an increase in total pay depending on metals and 4.9% in real value. If we look at the topic area, the percentage increase over the period of the government is the largest for transport and communications. Finally, a dignified president, this: In a state-of-the-state balance, economic stability and sustainable financial resources are contributed to the continuation of financial stability.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u74	Mr. President. I want to ask you why. For more information, please contact the branch office or write to the branch office that serves your country. 297 on the budget bill is a good picture showing the situation. There is limited expenses, wages, and compensation, and then there is a budget of more than 3 billion, and a report assumes that the main part of the contribution is to the construction of a hospital on the Ringway. The maintenance Scenario is 528 million. K. Of course, most of these are hospitals, but then the Akureyri hospital. This is so that in 2020 the landspians are likely to enter with 4 billion dollars. Do it now. In addition, the government requires that the government be maintained, the government that was going to do so extremely well in health matters. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he believes it is possible to send the bill so prepared or if he hopes to make changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u75	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter for the question involved in making donations for hospitals and Hospitals in particular. First, I'd like to say that promoting health care is on the agenda. You're right. A senator comes in, there's a combined limp at the Land Hospital. This is what we've got. The budget is being analyzed and presented with information about the origin of the lame one. It has gained a lot of weight and it has already passed. This is shown in six months' resolution. A large part of it seems to be paybacks, indicating that collective agreements will become more difficult to deal with after the contract has passed. There is a discussion between recruitment, financial and economic services and the Ministry of Health about the accounts involved. [[The president calls.]] I think this is the big thing, like the situation is right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u76	Madam President. There may be a problem. The directors had planned to set better health issues at some point, but they are clearly not on the program in 2020. It cannot be concluded that the Landspians should carry some algorithms from the Ministry of Economics and allow them to suffer from patient service. No one who has had to lie in the Hospital, or Hospital, of Akureyri, or of their citizens is exposed to enormous pressures on people and the need for both money and human life. In the summer, I went through the experience of examining both the circumstances at the Akureyri Hospital and the Hospital. No way, Madam President, this council can agree to send 4 billion dollars to the National Hospital. Turned into 2020, as well as making a staging demand for a quarter of a billion more, and then standing here on a pin and saying, like a boy. The head of the budget board makes it planned to improve the health system in Iceland. This isn't working.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u77	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The answer, or the question, in the second answer. Of course it'll work out, but we need to find out what the money's about to go to. There are 70 billion people going to this hospital, to the Land Hospital. And I say at the same time, every day, miracles are called miracles to improve the welfare and lives of the citizens that we have put 10 billion in the hospital for the last two years. He's about 5 billion out here. This is a 15 billion increase. It is our job to identify what it involves, and no one spoke of a miscalculation. Now, the cost of manufacturing is calculated at the hospital, called DRG, which is higher than expected, and numbers like this are based on a little bit, and there is, of course, evidence that there is. A senator correctly admitted that the hospital staff is under heavy pressure. [[The president calls.]] We're working on getting the hang of it. I remember a long time back where there was a lot more complaining and wailing and now the discussion is much more professional about the importance of what we spend and what we're getting for them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is what we are on. It's a legal committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u78	President wants less of it. Councilmen are again to respect the time limit, which is a crisis when there are four answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u79	A respectable president. With all other concerns, I would like to ask about the church meeting that I do not treasure. Now, some additional contract is being made as a financial committee, as far as I know, has not yet been allowed to see. Still, it's presented in the budget bill. After all, that agreement will be agreed, upcoming with the General votes, or not. I guess the deal, like many other treaties, is made in advance of the approval of the Generals because there was a second violation of the Constitution. The Church Meeting - we have no idea what we were getting for paying an infinite amount of money for eternity. Which ground were under it? Nobody seems to be able to answer what society really got for the money it paid, for the tax money being paying. If we'd, for example. If this were to stop, it would be possible to lower the taxes by 1,000. in a month or some other way to finance the health system, as mentioned earlier. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u80	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Björn of Gunnarsson's Leví to the church meeting question. - It's getting pretty... A senator uses the word awkward, but it's probably a challenge, although I say that this has been cut in the wake of a collapse, in some way people haven't gotten along about it. [[Awkward.]] I'll just say, "I'm sorry, thank you." It has to be considered in exactly what the contracts are, what the money will go to and what it is about to be. I'm sorry, we don't have enough information on that right now. It must be said at the moment, because I know that it is. A senator spoke earlier in response to what he was doing. For example, consider the case in the case of Senator Steinunn, Árnadóttir, of our role in a financial committee and of our responsibilities regarding monitoring and maintenance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u81	A respectable president. Then I'd like to ask a simple question. We haven't received the data yet, despite repeatedly asking and asking for the Ministry of finance since November last and will be submitted to this council, since it was not answered. Considering that we don't have that evidence, would it be irresponsible for the council to accept this agreement? I think so. Watch your step. A senator intends to vote with the contract without that evidence?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u82	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question to the church meeting. We're on 1st. the bill, and it's in the hands of the council and goes to the budget board at the highest level. The Secretary of Economics and Economics has turned it in. We're about to start a pretty busy process where we're sending the case up. This is, of course, one of the cases where we call the Ministry and review what these numbers are, in the process and in the deal. Before we have done our job and covered it, and many other matters, of course, I cannot stand here and answer that question in particular. [[Up front.]] Yeah, it's if and you could have it all. We're going over this. That is the work ahead of us, or we would be minimizing the process we are working on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u83	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator and president of the budgetary committee for his story. I just wanted to talk to you. Senator on IRS. Now the bill is on page 18. 119 expected 200 billion. K. increased tax monitoring. Then we will see that some 250 million dollars are due. ... ina governmentfundoverprice. But now it's been introduced to us, including it was presented to a budget at the time, that the amount of tax fraud could be up to 100 billion. This is reported in a report from June 2017. What does it look like? A senator? How can we cope with the natural problem? Two hundred and fifty million are nothing compared to the amount of tax fraud shown in this report. [[The president calls.]] It would be interesting to hear from what you hear. A senator provides what he can do, how we can improve that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u84	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's son's offer for an excellent, tax - control question. It points to page 18. 119 where there is an increase in tax monitoring and then income that is estimated to be greater than the cost of follow-up. The overall value of tax fraud or of what we may be missing may not be entirely clear. Yeah, yeah, yeah. A senator mentioned figures, but the simple answer to that question is that the simple tax system, enhances the efficiency and responsibility of the citizens. I think the culture that's been built up here is something we need to look into. At the same time, there is a need to monitor the systems we have today, and then we work at the Generals constantly to improve and simplify the system to make it more efficient. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u85	Thank you. The senator's answer. I did so because he specifically mentioned it to simplify the tax system. But now the government is beginning to complicate it more by adding tax steps. It also says in one of the bill, Madam President, that it is previously overwritten with income tax returns to $17 billion. This amount is enormous, and it would be interesting to know if. A senator knew what kind of taxes these taxes were leading to. Then I'd like to ask you what. The senator on the genetic tax to be returned about 5.1 billion on the bill, if there's any idea of changing it. It has been discussed and published by members of the Independence Party. [[The president calls.]] Is there evidence of change in the matter of reducing tax returns in that area?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u86	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question in the second answer. I think the tax demand that's being dropped, 17 billion, may give us more evidence than the programs we're looking at and show a much higher figure about what we're missing in the tax system. I don't have the exact disunition of that money, but it's one of our tasks at a budget to call for notes when we want to get more information about specific sizes like this. I'll just record it with me, I think before I start to give myself something in that subject, that's the wisest way. We're calling for that information. Of course, you might imagine what kind of tax requirements are down here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u87	Madam President. Thank you. A fine review is made by a senator and a chairman of the budgetary committee. It was a long list of many projects that we can certainly agree to be all the best, but now we're going to work with this bill. We'll send it to a number of stakeholders, and we'll get their assessment of the plans presented there. Of course, then, you wonder: " Do I build this bill on practical grounds? Are we calling for comments from stakeholders about our reality? Will we be in a position to fulfill the promises made? That's why I must ask you why. Councilman and chairman of a budget board: Does he believe in the economic candidates on which this bill is based, especially when we appear every day on news of things developing worse? Admittedly, things are good in the economy, but there is nowhere to see the optimism that distinguishes the economics of the Habitat, including just in the words of an assistant bank manager who recently said that the bottom was not reached. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u88	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for the question. This is really the big question we should ask ourselves. I came in on a talk on a very professional and practical subject, that I feel, in section 2.3, about economic development in business countries and some evidence, even at home, that there will not be as much economic growth or quick a change in the economy as we might choose to look around and really lead to this financial bill. I can stand, of course, and say, "I have full faith in this, but you just look at reality as it is, and it can lead to both hopes. " I appreciate it so much that we've put the foundation in a revised policy and a financial program that is fundamental to the budget, which makes it more likely that this will work. I hope so, and I have full faith in it. I can assure you that this work is more likely to do so. [[The president calls.]] I'd also like to mention that we're working against the economy. The actions I listed are designed to help counter the decline. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u89	Madam President. I fear that the economic foundations of these budgets will not be right and far away. Here, for example. two simple factors to point out. The building industry is shrinking, not handsome growth, as expected in the next year's economic forecast. This has a significant impact on the income of the state's funds. This is a very important industry in the economy. It also affects expenses, since because of the high number of construction workers, unemployment is expected to become more abundant. It's coming even. published in the recent reports of the industrial Association this morning, which speaks of interlocking. You can see this in a segregation hall with a fifth cord between years of age. It tells us that this industry has fallen into a recession, and as a result, it is completely unrealistic to expect 10 interest next year. We also see that the import is greatly contracting. Importing is a major source of revenue for the state funds, e.g. car transport is highly efficient for the state funds, so that next year's handsome growth is at best optimistic. [[The president calls.]] I'm afraid this is where we're deliberately putting out too much bright prospects that we have no obligation to do, just so that the government can stand here and make an anonymous promise in a discussion of the budget. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u90	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. No, those are promises that we can keep. If things go worse, if these prospects test to some extent, we have time to deal with them. We're going to be on this bill to restore the state funds in balance, so we're going to keep looking for sustainable financial resources, and we still have all the space to give up more than what is already planned for. This has to do with the aim of making public investments bigger than the job investment. I agree with everything. A senator came on, we're supposed to watch this and always worry a little bit about how the development is in the construction industry, tourism, and these sectors on the demand side. It should be noted that if the import is combined, the client's balance will be more favourable. [[The president calls.]] It's a complex interaction, but we've certainly changed our policy into that and we've made the basic programs that give us the opportunity to face this uncertainty. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u91	A respectable president. The 2020 budget, I have had the privilege of visiting a representative of the consultants to present to us her expenses, her contractions, her business problems, and all of that. I'd especially like to start by thanking you. paritaprevir For him, the Björn of the Leví of Gunnarsson's son is for the wisest march and great enforcing of my life that he shall be given to a body of sheep. He's one of those I'd say had his finger on your pulse. If we were more like him in the money business, what would become a trust fund, the situation might be a little different. Despite this budget, however, the optimism, boldness, and prowess are a number of uncertainty factors, and many ends that you cannot quite control, e.g. The wonderful optimistic prognostications that are announced right next year, which increase economic growth immediately next year. It may not be boring to be optimistic in this regard after the downtrodden we have had to face in the current year. We all know the fall of the airline, the failure of the airline, and other factors, of course, all of this plays in, but that doesn't change the fact that there are certain points of vendices that I find quite positive. As I have mentioned before this morning, it is first to talk about a declared goal, both the highest. Secretary of finance and the newly appointed bank manager, of the development and development of the development of this building, created a basis for further expansion. It is the dresser that was specifically called for, especially in the spring when the biographies went. I think it's very positive, but it doesn't change the fact that we all know that the budget is based on financial policy and financial planning that we have had to discuss. When she was printed first last year, a man had the feeling that when all her grounds were broken and further as soon as it turned out, what I mentioned, a collapse of airlines, and a failure of hairy hair, we had to pick it up all over again. She came back in June. As for the financial bill itself, I especially want to talk about what health - care facilities are like. We received a representative of the Land Hospital of University, which showed us the major business problems the hospital faces, the priorities of money where we are to be maintained, the way we handle public funds, how the flow problem that costs more than any other nursing space, or any other resources that we can offer is permanent at a Lands Hospital, and how difficult it seems to be to reach beyond the human resources of health care. There is no need for nurses or other staff to do so at least a new nursing home built on its Seltiannenes. As I said, in fact, no matter where you look, there's a problem. We have a serious health problem, and people in general are very at odds with the endless wait. It doesn't matter whether it's waiting to get to the doctor or wait to get your ear or knee fixed or anything else. Lately, I have had to go through visiting these blessed health - care providers, even though it is not for me but for myself. I have to admit that we could all benefit from looking at them and pretending to be somebody else, so we wouldn't get to go ahead of them, being the average Icelander who has to look into the health - care system. Indeed, it is worth considering. I'm going to share my songs with a cross and talk about that although it's truly reporting tax losses to be done over the next two years, it doesn't change the fact that there's nothing to do about those who only live on social security and have nothing else. In the fiasco at the highest rate. Secretary of finance is spoken of as being between 325,000 and 600,000 remunerations. I'd like to meet the invalid with 325,000 bucks. per month. I don't think they're more than the finger of one hand. We have to realize that there are about 22,000 poor people in the country, some with pension rights, some people have been badly hurt and dropped back and entered the system, but what will happen to them there? Their pension fund is destroyed and they are naturally impaired, and if they have possessions for, housing, and so on, they can just forget it. They can return it, or they can be bankrupt or whatever. These groups don't really care enough. If we want to try to live up to our privilege of being happy, and if we want to remain the happiest country in the world as we should, we have to try to make it count for everyone. That's where I say, as with our budget, "Let's think that we repeatedly have to bring in a little extra money--and now I'm going to talk about the hospital Vig. I'm talking about AU. I'm going to talk about an emergency service. It is now, for example. It is recognized that there is a cocaine epidemic in the end of the opioid epidemic, a stronger drug on the market, repeatedly bringing people of all ages and from all classes who have been taking it in their noses and are completely at the door of death. What are we doing about it? I'm asking, "Where are all the prevention?" What are we doing about it? I think it's small and lazy. I have to say right now. The financier authority, a financierate board, introduced into the council in December in the previous additional contributions to the United States. Every senator I've talked to in this room understood the trust as I do. We certainly wanted to meet the emergency problem at Vogi Hospital and infirm people who needed their first treatment. If I'm going to tell you just as far as I can tell you, there's no permanent extra fund to the U.S. in the budget, not a dollar. It still needs to come up the way for us to see if somehow it can be reassigned to the great General Assembly that the funds of our people feel sorry for them and bring an extra treasure into the seminar. Imagine that. Wouldn't it be simpler and easier for all of us to get this to where it belongs, into the budget, that we recognize the problem? I can tell you that on Wednesday before the commercial weekend Vogi was called in a case-wrapped case people who were supposed to lie in the next day and say, "Sorry, we can't take you in. There's so much emergency we don't have room. We don't have room for you. You have to cancel. What happens to the addict, what happens to our drug addict and the alcoholic when he finally makes a decision and is ready to go into the hospital Vog when he gets this message? Sorry, you have to wait a little longer. I think most people just go out and get drunk, I have to say. Anyway, we can do better, and I know it. In the big context, to meet this and to fix this as we really can do, we're talking about pennies. We're talking less than when we were installing a new Microsoft system, a service system with Microsoft. We've been paying for it for over a year and a half before the system. Is this a great treatment for public money? Then it becomes evident that rather than paying 50 million for this computer service, the National Hospital, when it happens to a financial committee, has to pay 200 million more. The service we're doing this is costing Land Hospital ▪ College Hospital now 250 million instead of 50 million in the past. If it's a brilliant investment and it's well-funded with public funds, I'll say, "No. I wish I'd got these 200 million already, put them right into the hospital Vig and help our young people and our addicts, who are too many at the door of death.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u92	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the introduction to this discussion. It is important that we discuss the situation of lesser ones and what is being done to improve the situation, both in taxable matters and in many areas of health care and welfare. The importance of supporting health institutions, both government drivers and those who work on the basis of an automaton arrangement, as well as on the basis of that, I can assume that these institutions play a vital role, and we need to observe how they are enabled to perform that role. I'd like to come into a word or two. A senator on micro-energy pensioner and whether there are over a number of micro-energy pensioners in the income range we are here. Hv. A senator used the expression "to be counted on the fingers of one hand or something like it. " I know it wasn't meant literally. It was suggested that there were not so many of them. Especially if we look at how many micro-energy pensioners claim to promote tax organizations in the range of 300,000,350,000, it is more than 3,300 people. They're not small groups, they count into thousands. The fact is, when we take a special look at who we are reaching out for the tax reduction, it reaches a maximum of 325,000 dollars. it turns out that there are large groups of disability, large groups of pensioners, and, of course, we know, many in the minimum, but at this range, from 300,000,350,000, are well over 3,000. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u93	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for the counter-sponsore. Over 3,000 micromasks of 21,000 in this area at the highest level of income. A minister may mention that more than 18,000 are familiar with what I'm talking about, which only have an extension from a insurance institution and little or nothing else. It tells itself that when you get paid 246,000 bucks. or, over the next two years, it is likely to be 5,800 k. - Isn't that the amount this group gets, if I get it right, when it's fully accomplished? - Oh, my God. I'm just embarrassed to talk about it, it's so small. We are talking about 21 billion that these taxes cost. Would it not have been possible for us to use it a little more fully? Is it completely impossible to cancel a bank tax? What did the banks show, e.g. a lot of money now? Can't you take more of our resources? Is it not possible to make more money and really show that we want to help everyone, not just some? The General Assembly of the Icelanders scraps the bottom to what is the trust of the common people, the trust of the nation in us. This is how we build trust, by showing that we work for everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u94	A respectable president. I have to start by doing a little correction. I had only misread my file, but there are not 3,300, but more than 5,300 micro-employers who have income tax stocks in the range of 300,000,350,000. On the contrary, I'm not here to argue that there are high incomes, I realize that we're talking about low income groups. This is what I state because most people were claimed to be far away. These are large groups, and they count about 5,300 who accept disability benefits and are in this income range. Other than that, I want to refer to an answer from the 148th legislature Council, 2017-2018, to which. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kársson, of the insurance company's payments to senior citizens and disability. This is the answer requested by the Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. 174, 57th case. It shows that we have been in a great effort to improve the quality of these groups, but our work continues. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u95	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. Then I'd go down from 18,000 to 17,000 to the top. Ministers are a complete sync with numbers of under 300,000 microchipes. They've got far below 300,000 down payment, that's a fact. However, a group of people has proclaimed that there is no problem, no problem, no problem in getting the lowest contribution at 300,000, no tax, and no impairment. All it takes is the will.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u96	Madam President. First, I would like to protest what I felt could be understood by a talk. paritaprevir Sæland for some time ago, the general members of the United States used some sort of priorities in health care, that we would have to try to wait for us to come like the rest of the people in the country. Such nonsense, Madam President. Of course, like everyone else in this community, we go into the health system, and our good health professionals do not treat people differently by whether they are members of the general body or by any other location. This just doesn't make me feel possible. Tomorrow, there will be more discussion in the field of subject as well as a minister. A senator only introduced the flow problem, and the need to put people elsewhere is addressed in this financial bill, setting up extra funds, 1.8 billion, in the construction of nurses. Also, less than 2 billion are involved in nursing care because the cost of operating is, of course, increasing when we multiply our nurses. This is taking part in the budget bill. And finally, I have to say that it's good, and it's important, and we're supposed to improve the quality of disability, but it's also a big responsibility to speak properly about these matters. There should not be any indication that general changes made to the tax system do not benefit everyone. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it also uses microenergy pensioners because they are part of this community. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u97	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I don't know why it hasn't realized that we're part of a privileged group. At least I have. Since I became a senator, my life has been transformed in all the services that prey on me in the community, all of it. It doesn't matter if I call an insurance agency and ask for some service that took a long time to get, and I never could get in touch with a lawyer because they didn't have time. Now I'm only contacted directly, although I didn't even ask for it as soon as there's a senator on the phone, so they say. Second, when talking about disability - what. A senator has never known it all his life, I think, what it's like to live on disability. I don't think so. I don't think I'm joking when I say that. How you experience your situation, how you have to rely on them or have not. I'm not gonna even it. I don't suppose it's comparable. When you're talking about like a dog. A senator--I don't remember what she said in the middle, I never write anything down but maybe wants a reason. A senator reminds me of that. [[Up front.]] Yes, exactly. Today, there are 375 people in waiting lists for space in nursing homes. It doesn't matter if they're trying to step in now, there's a lot to do better and much more if they're going to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u98	Madam President. I'm very, very open to what was said in a case. A senator, that she should be given a whole different service after she became a member of the body. I don't know. I don't know. When a member of the body attends to serve as a member of the body, does he always serve as a member of the body? There are many ways to do things, but my experience is that those who work in our public systems are professional, and whether they know your name or not, they give you the services that you have a right to. It doesn't change what title you have. I'm not going to get drunk trying to figure out who's the biggest invalid in here or who's been in the middle of it. It simply doesn't matter. It's not a competition to who's lived with anyone for the longest time. It's about our priorities in the community, and it's important for people with all kinds of knowledge and all kinds of experience to get involved. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u99	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It's a pleasure that we have such charming generals here who fight and laugh and stumble around us. There's a really high level of development, it's almost like yesterday when I gave a talk about poverty. But it doesn't change the fact that I never present myself as a general. It's probably enough to call Sæland Goad, the only one on the whole earth, so I usually introduce myself like that, so they say. Whether there's a competition about which one of us is more of a invalid is not what I was talking about. That's not what I was talking about. Hv. A senator turns out of what I was saying, and I guess she totally understood me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u100	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland Land for her speech and input into this discussion. Hv. A senator sits at ease. The legal committee was only involved in the work of the Committee. It is now a third of the budget covered by the Commission. In the middle, this same committee has passed through national financial policy in the dual and financial policies, everything that lays the groundwork, and fulfilled its important roles, in the entire hold of financial resources, and in the control of the state's funds as a whole. A senator came in. Hv. A senator entered the committee's work and stated why. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. I can totally confirm that he's doing a great job. But that's what I want to say about what. The body of legal committees, as a whole, plays a very important role and has worked hard to do so, during the time I have been on the committee. There is both great knowledge and experience, and I can commend the entire committee and all of them. Councilmen who are involved in it for a very good job contribution. I think all committees are very aware of their roles. Hv. A member of the council has repeated comments on the importance of improving the interest of citizens of the land. The Society's main fruits have never been lower. Now I want to ask you why. A senator's reasons and reasons for interest are to lower the country's growth rate. A senator is so pleased, as we all should be.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u101	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator and president of the budget board for the counter-sponsor. I agree with every word. I'm naturally very proud of all the budgetary committees, and especially the better-looking management of the Chairman. But I could not refrain from taking myself outside the parentheses. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, as the Chairman knows, he is extremely zealous. But what makes a growth reduction, which I believe, is one of our greatest dressbacks, play a variety of factors in it. It is of particular importance, as has been seen and seen. paritaprevir Willum Þór himself gave in his speech before and at the height of his speech. A financial minister specifically introduced us when he introduced to us the budget bill of his day, this interaction that is now between money policy and state culture, it's beginning to work out better together. This would especially mean that this might even be the basis for further ahead in order to reduce growth. I think it's totally great. So we don't talk about the biographies and the stability we've achieved and the low inflation. The rest is in that direction now. Nor was anything overpreciated in our hearts, as we all know, but more was called upon by change, and we tried to meet them and the people of the country and the companies with a decrease in interest. That's exactly what we see now, and I really hope to go on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u102	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Of course, I couldn't set myself up as an old coach first. A senator offered an opportunity to name some members of the committee. The legal committee and their performance, talking about the helpers and sharpening the role we have, commending the team. I can say every word about growth reduction and the basis for growth reduction. In this crisis here and in the discussion of the budget, we will face and, of course, should deal with different viewpoints and also draw out something of great importance, especially when it comes to economic management. There is evidence that responsible government policy and responsible collective agreements work together, but for a long time it has been criticized that there is a lack of interaction. For the first time, there is much to indicate that this is working together, and we are in position to lean against the down cycle so that we can get out of it quickly and faster. Of course, I can say every word, and we should be happy when these things happen, and hopefully the next thing we do, we will get even better control of things in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u103	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's answer to that question did not involve any particular question. I just thank you for our cooperation as a team on a financial committee. We have a lot of work to do, and I look forward to handling the challenges and challenges that we all face. So I'm just saying, "Go on, Fundament Committee." Well, let's just keep on doing it for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u104	A respectable president. We'll discuss the budget bill before 2020. To begin with, it is proper to say that although criticism can often be intense and harsh in this room, there is, of course, much good work and much that we can all agree on, e.g. the importance of setting priorities in the interests of improved education, increasing focus on health and health matters, and for many of the underlying projects, there is no doubt a small transnational community in this hall. However, I would like to make three points for a discussion in my language that I think we have to take special care of. It's very important that we build our plans and plans on practical grounds and then I'd like to discuss the economic grounds for this financial bill. I would also like to discuss the lack of public investments that are very clear in the bill and that have become a persistent and long - term problem in public finance, and most notably the total lack of clear targets for the expansion of the policy and, in fact, the low estimate of the use of money in government management from year to year. If we first look at the economic foundation, we expect to have less than 3% interest in the Economic Organization, one of the most optimistic values we have in mind. I think the government is getting closer to this subject so that it is inconceivable with one advantage to use the Organization's national ideals as a guide, no matter what other market experts say. It's simply not right. Looking at official national forecasts, the law clearly states. There are more than one of them, including There are predictions of other specialists, such as the Bank Interpretations, and there are other specialists, who work for their prosperity, which is not as optimistic as the Economics of the Haust, and there are predictions. This raises the question: Why does the government repeatedly hang itself on the most optimistic forecast? This has been a ongoing problem. We began this discussion when we discussed the basis for the government budget for the first time, which repeatedly spoke of by a number of specialists as being too optimistic. We resumed our discussion in the budget talk a year ago. We resumed that discussion when we had to take financial and financial policies from the foundation earlier this year. In all cases, this criticism has proved to be completely justified. It's worked out from far too optimistically. It is based on the hope of economic development that has never gone by in the fluctuated Icelandic economy. Next year, about 3% of the world's economy is predicting interest, and that includes. Look at a significant increase in investments that are not seen in today's economy. On the contrary, it is cooling off. There's no reason to paint too dark a picture. The economy's doing just fine. This is not some crisis or collapse we're going through. This is just the question of taking reasonable precautions, so the income of the state's budget depends on the level of payment being set by this government. We see the recession that takes place in the construction industry, news from the Industrial Association this morning, which has been estimated to have been considerably lower baseline than since spring or a year ago. We see the same numbers in the work board's economist number as in Semitice. This is simply not a reason to believe that the economics of the Habitat will go on in an investment in an apartment building, that there will be growth in the next year to 10%, and an investment in an apartment building will be one quarter of the total investment or a financial investment in the economy. This alone gives immediate reason to exercise caution in these matters. This must be kept in mind, especially when it comes to the fact, which is the second point I would like to make up for a specific subject, which is the low investment level of the government. It has been all streets since the collapse of all governments to try to set priorities in the lawsuits to cut down or cut public investment's fingernails. It is simply that when we watch the long - term average investments in our country, they are missing in the past ten years or nearly 400 billion in infrastructure so that we stay under that average. In fact, it is quite comparable to the modern industry's organization a year ago or so ago. Their assessment of investments in the country, whether seen in the airports, the distribution system of electricity, or the road system, was that it was nearly 400 billion. It is an enormous figure as we watch that the government plans to increase its investments by 10 billion, allowing them to remain under the long - term average. It's not even enough to start working at that angle. There would have to be an extra investment of the government at least about 30 to 50 billion in the next two to three years. I'll ask you, if not now, when? There's some slacker in the economy. Such stimulation is needed. There is no problem with a government fund being thrown with little or even a compromise in these circumstances, but there is a big point for a limp to be put together, that we are setting priorities in an investment, on short - term eating projects, not to bust out our business, so we do not cover the expenses of a government budget on a normal year's trip. In the context of this government, we must not forget that we were living in a large assembly, which was a huge sum of money for a trust fund. It is irresponsible to build long - term budgets on such foam, as it was called during the crash years. I don't want to use that word, but we know it very well in this fluffy economy how the map is making a wealth of money. There will be no planned planned development for many years, and it will come at a time of day, as was warned of so much. Clearly, there is a need to take up the budget and set more priorities in order to make more investments. I don't think a government saying that it's reducing tax commands at the same time that the only way to live under a normal economic level is to charge users, as in the road system on expenses. It's called a tax raise. On the contrary, the independent party has kept on talking about public financial matters. This is where we've got to make some things we can't do. The third and final item I would like to mention is a lack of goals. From the beginning, the government has talked about a big move in all areas of government management and has spoken gruelly, whether as ministers of an independent party, left green, or advance, of the huge expansion of every legal budget. The increase in expenses, however, is not a goal in itself. There is nowhere to see, neither in this financial bill, in the government budget, nor in previous budget primes, any measurable aims on which the huge expansion is to be accomplished. We have increased health costs of nearly 50 billion in three years. We are still wrestling with a waiting list that we used to wrestle. We still hear the same news about the end of summer, and we could continue to count it. We have a home run at the Land Hospital in those circumstances. I'm asking, "What is the result? " What arrangements were made for the expansion? That must be the purpose of our initial treatment; improved health care. Not that health costs are 11% of domestic product, as has been basically the sole purpose of the government in this regard. It is the service that really matters, and it can also be done more effectively, looking for ways to provide it more effectively, not just to draw financial support into the problem. We need to be able to care for our health systems in the long run, and we know that, along with the aging of the people, the cost will be greatly increased, the need for service will be greatly increased. That is why we must always be careful. Of course, the same is true in education and elsewhere. The result is the most important thing. The object of the cost cannot be self - centered. I hope we'll be able to get a discussion on public financial matters at a point where we'll discuss more about the main objective of the expansion or the changes to take place from year to year in service goals rather than costs. More important, we have some standards on the effectiveness of the funds we are working with in public business from year to year. Is that better than last year? Do we get more for the crowns this year than we do last year? [[The president calls.]] This is of utmost importance in government matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u105	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for a detailed three - part discourse. I'm going to come in on a budget on a realistic basis. As shown in the bill with the most optimistic project, the bill takes into consideration the findings of the Haust Lab. Then I only want to go back when we're at what we need. The budget and the what. A senator with us, working on a reexamination policy, talking about an uncertain gap. Then we got another person, another fortune - teller, to install the committee and go over their predictions, and we certainly took into account the predictions when we ended up with the uncertainty gap down to 0.8% of GDP, so we have time to face down swings, such as water. A senator knows. If I'm right enough to run my right, we'd have a little bit more inexplicable space. There may be a worse way to go. This will be discussed in a paper with the bill, both of which are international uncertainty in our business countries, and so on. A senator was well versed in strong clues that we should always read in as we do in the construction industry. Then I wondered: " If we could have gone further to meet the blackest predictions, which would predict if I remembered correctly 1.9% of the contractions, how would such decisions be affected by such decisions, e.g. on state financial policy and money policy to the interest decision made by the Secret Bank Board of Money?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u106	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. There are many interesting points there and perhaps the best way to start with the impact on money policy. Clearly, interest is falling so fast now, not because of some great success in the economy, but because the economy is cooling off. The late bank is responding to a cool economy, not applause to the government for having done a great job in the economy. But it is certainly noted that moderate agreements have made a difference in reducing the rate of inflation. In those circumstances, however, public investments are not a problem. There is room to stimulate the economy for exactly the same reason that the second bank is reducing growth. It's simply starting to relax in the economy. There's the government's budget. It is so important that we focus it on the investment rather than on permanent pay, not on the stall, but on temporary investment initiatives. There are many opportunities we could use. It's true, reverend wanted this uncertainty curve even more. I don't see any basis for thinking that we were going exactly to run a state fund in these circumstances with a lean, 0.5 to 61% angle, for one to two years. It's not a problem if they're in the right direction of money, i.e. More than anything else, it's a struggle for investments. Similarly, in this budget - how long are we going to sit on the hundreds of billions of dollars bound into the bank system's own money, hundreds of billions of dollars, that the state can direct to important investments right at this time? I think this is the time when we should be beginning to release that possession to actually turn banks into bridges instead of taxing more taxing the population in order to attack the necessary investments. That is a reasonable action, very much in line with the priorities we had in return in discussions about changes in financial policy and financial programmes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u107	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. We're not sure how to grow up. On the contrary, it's not only for responsible collective agreements, responsible biographies with the presence of the government but also for the absolutely fundamental factors to work together. I see strong evidence of that. I think if we go too far as we can see how state funds are maintained, that's a lot to say. Public investment. I agree with what. A senator that it is important to look to where we put our money. We're getting our weapons, let's say, in public investment. We had to take painful action in that area as a result of the collapse of others. But now the bow, the downside, on the forward side. If we watch the national economy, many of the measures we may see here may influence the demand side. [[The president calls.]] And what? A senator knows that the value of the transfer systems is to increase in total expenses, so we are always smaller and smaller. [[The president calls.]] It's something that's involved in our future on a budget board, in the Senate, and for the governments looking at that balance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u108	Mr. President. I think we're gonna do what. A senator just has to disagree on the responsibility of the state's affairs. The policy of this government has been to destroy all the dollars it has acquired. For the 2018 State Department, it was a source of pressure and criticism. Then the economy fell from under the government, and suddenly it's okay to be stimulating. I just say, it's fine at this point that the government's affairs are stimulating, it's important that they are in the right direction, to stimulate investment. If not now, when? We cannot always prepare for a long - term average, long - term need, and then when the dishes out of the cow become still one, like after a collapse, no room for extra investments. When are we going to work on our investment debt, the debt we are facing? It's been a long time, and this would be a timelined point. That is why I feel sad that I can't see more emphasis on investments in the budget than I can see.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u109	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying that the claim that the government had an independent goal of destroying every dollar, of course, cannot hold a view when reimbursement is observed in the last few years. If we look at the latest government bill that came out earlier this summer, last year state funds were fired with 84.4 billion leftovers. It's not a government that's destroyed every cent. On the other hand, I'd like to agree with a lot of things. A senator comes in and makes comments. First, the living room doesn't always have the most practical predictions, it's not like that. Much closer to saying that the Haust Room and the Secret Bank are very close in their predictions and if you look at the prognostications being referred to in the discussion, they are in the range of 1◯2.5%. That's the gap we're talking about. You might say that people should have shot somewhere in the middle of that room, but we have for years compared to the Hap lab's project that has been very close to what the Navy says, and that's official, and that's a premise we give ourselves. Of course, when it comes to saying that we have a very irresponsible spending policy, the question arises: Where does it appear? Hv. A senator has pondered the question, What is the result of raising his expenses? The answer is seen in the fact that we have been expanding our investment called after we make it. We've also managed to do a very large improvement, e.g. Through social security, it's a tremendous sum of money. I guess it's going to be somewhere around 70 billion a year for what we've been paying for social security compared to when I started at the Ministry of finance in 2013. It's going to disability and pensioners. Surely we must measure it as some success, to be able to lift under the interest of those who have little between their hands. Then there are many other employees, and now we are talking about buying helicopters and many more. It's a success. In a later answer, I'm going to come on a little bit of the opportunities I agree with. A senator on the matter of releasing investments in financial companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u110	Mr. President. For example, let us not spend long time arguing about the accuracy of economic forecasts. We do know, however, that they are likely to experience a failure to produce economic growth in fluctuating situations. It is a load that we know very well in economic forecasts and that is also true. one of the reasons why this great change took place in 2018 in the bank account, the economic growth of that year eventually far exceeded the expected amount of money. As a result, the government did not succeed in destroying every cent, in fact, in an effort to have much less to do with the situation. Similarly, for the same reason, this year's recovery is going to be far worse than the target, i.e. We will see how the variability in economic growth affects the quality of the state's funds, both on the income and on the pay side. That may be my point. Much more caution is needed when we are in a cooling economy. Then we know that we are more prone to overcast economic growth than the other, so we need to be even more careful not to get back into it, as in the past year, that in November, after meeting all the stakeholders and going over with them what plans are going on at the expense gate, we need to cut this whole thing down because it will not prove to be the ones who made it. It's important. In terms of success criteria it is correct, e.g. That older citizens and disability are greatly increased in relatively short periods of time. Much of this is explained by the two changes in older citizens, the changes made in the pension system in 2016, which were greatly improved by the quality of the pensioner population, but there is, of course, an abundance in the world. The people are getting old. It is also a precautionary development in the case of microenergy pensioners, which has increased dramatically, reflecting, not our successes, but our failures in e.g. Work responsibly and on the way to stop these trends and ways to help people to work again, which suffers temporary loss of energy. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u111	A respectable president. It's far from when I wanted to get into a word-out at what I heard. A senator that should be handled well with each cent, that we would definitely need to make sure that the cost of money would not be too much in areas where there would be no progress in making donations. I am a great spokesman for the coming of the time that we need to increase efficiency, efficiency, search for ways to do so, for example. with new technologies, more assessment. I am a great spokesman for the better use of the council to provide the European Commission with support for these factors, that we strengthen the committee field to care for that, etc. With the banks, I agree deeply with them. A senator with the exact same view that we are to dislodge this possession. It will open up an opportunity to further add to investments. That discussion remains. What's important to me is what I think it's important to keep to the economy, and the basis is that we're always talking about doing things for the given reasons. If the circumstances change, we must agree that this leads to some different conclusion. [[The president calls.]] You can't find a certain way if you suddenly hit a traffic jam, but in itself it's not a problem that you said you'd come, given the reason it wasn't a traffic jam.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u112	Mr. President. I'm so happy that I and the highest. Secretary of finance will agree that public funds need to be handled well. You see, I've had a bit of a disturbance in the Independence Department's Affliction of Exploitation in the history of this government, but I hope there will be an end to it. It is not sanctified by any wickedness or by our refusal to take good care of the important issues underlying. It's just that it's so important that we could always hold on to government business so that we don't lose control of the government, like I claim the government is doing. The tax growth is simply out of control, and we see in this year's projections that the hook will be far beyond the target. That may be a basic point when we talk about the uncertainty range in the budget and the budget for the current year. It's an uncertain vector. There is no room to face a trend that we can anticipate. This trend for the next year, we can simply predict it. We can't assume ahead of time to start over-thinking plans and then plan to use the uncertainty gap to meet what we should know completely, and we'll expect to know in November when new economic forecasts come. [[The president calls.]] That's not the point of the uncertainty curve.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u113	Mr. President. I'm thinking about using this answer not to say much more about the economy and how it's done and what else to build on but that it's the Habitat doing economics, but perhaps not our job at the Council to win them. Of course, we can have an opinion of the economic predictions published and thus work with them. Hv. A senator believes that an investment has been too small, fine. What I'd like to do is ask him to be a little bit more konkot. Where do you think that is? A senator should be more investment than that? And then, because he's talking about not improving into the booth, whether he feels that somewhere he's too increased when it comes to the health system, to the shoes, to what we're putting in the environment. I think it's more important to talk more of what you're talking about. A senator would like to see more in and whatever it is that he thinks, in view of the coins we have to change, to put less in or whether it should give something completely different.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u114	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists and draws me out of the debate on the economic forecasts. That's a very good question: Is it somewhere too little done? If we start with the investment, obviously. We can see this on the streets of Reykjavíkurburg and the capital area in the traffic pool and in the important investments that have been in the street in the southwestern corner for a decade. The street system's been quite efficient. We're talking about important investments, such as completing a double on the Smokey Way, finishing a double on Southland Road, a new bridge over Alfjuvei, etc., which is now announced the need to pay in particular on road expenses. It's all been starving at that point in the economy that would have been very good at attacking such projects, e.g. Right after the crash, and now that we see this relaxation. Of course, we'll see this on the road system around the country, on the state of the Arab coast and how many European bridges are still there. In fact, our investment in the road system has not been able to keep up with the large increase in traffic while the bomb in the tourism industry has been involved. We've accepted the income from the tourism services, but we haven't invested in our infrastructure to meet the same tourists. That's a very clear sign of this fortune. We can also see this in the lack of nursing facilities. Over and over again, nursing planning plans are being delayed, now at the end of the budget talk less than a year ago, the schedule was delayed and reduced. We simply see that we are getting into a lot of trouble there. There's a lot of places we can do better than that. In terms of health management, I also want to improve our quality of life and improve our health - care services. At the same time, however, we would like to point out that there must be a clear, successful goal, not just a spending goal. The lack of successful management methods is not a successful management method, and it is only the experience in global management, whether in public business or personal business, often, almost always, that there can be a better way to provide services than at the same time in a more efficient way. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u115	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's answers. I like this because we're talking some bit of politics. I'd like to state that there are a number of things being done in the road, but there's still more to be done. All that stuff as long as possible. A senator mentioned urgent, but these are also issues that play in some ways into the promising goals, perhaps especially the solutions in the capital area. I know one minute is not a long time, but I'd like to pray. A senator is merely going into the process of letting his own investment goals interfere with our climate goals. And because of what? A senator mentioned investments in nursing homes that, of course, there are money on the budget that goes into construction in nursing homes, which I think is very important. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u116	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator responds to his second. With respect to investment targets e.g. In the capital area, conflicting with climate targets is the most obvious objective of city lines. It is one of the most important investments we have to make in the southwest corner, and it is happy to see that they finally look to a country with a deal between the state and our rural society. I hope that they will be able to speed up their goals further and to increase their ambitions for energy exchanges and necessary investments, especially to look to both heavy transport loading stations and environmental energy sources in this regard. Here, we really need to skim, for the fact is that we do not achieve our goals in climate. releases grew last year, and this does not depend on our continuing to reach our goals in 2030. [[The president calls.]] There will be plenty of money for the government if we do not correct it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u117	Mr. President. We'll discuss the budget bill before 2020. I would like to reflect on the discussion that has been the past few hours and the emphasis that has been put on the past few months, trying to figure out a little bit more and re-enact the big picture that I think we should watch this financial bill. The financial bill reflects the objective of the government to counteract a temporary downturn in the economy following contracts of tourism and hairy failure. This is done without compromising the plans for the construction and infrastructure of the state, by compromising the terms of the government, and by reducing the planned rest of the budget. This will be in the hope that the economy will seek balance and a new economy will be right around the corner. This economic guide is to promote a stable, improved standard of living. It is the role of the budget bill in the state of the budget, the dupling of the economy with the lower income, a significant rise in grafting to unemployment, and an increase in infrastructure. The budget bill suggests that the arctic order of the Icelandic Crown, which has recently reflected underlying economic development and decreasing the growth of the Federal Bank, will also rest on the same swing. The bank's basic fruits have never been lower. At that time, workers have contributed to economic stability through recent labour contracts. Invested by the fact that the nation's outer position has rarely or never been better. The rest of the business with countries has been on a steady basis since 2009, and clean foreign positions were positive of 10% of national production by the end of 2018 and will be much higher by the first quarter of the year of 2019. This situation is unique, and the debt of state funds has been halved since 2012. Other manifestations of this form are increasing savings between households and businesses and a lower debt status because of a lack of resistance in the economy. In this situation, the reality is that the state's budget has provided support for the overall demand, since there is room given within the financial policy to reduce growth at the right time in the economy. Similarly, increased confidence in the government's management of the economy has been reflected in the good credit ratings of government funds and the analyses and support it provides. That belief has many meanings, especially in financial matters. The wealth of government has never offered as good the markets as it was at this time, whether in Icelandic crowns or in any other coin. In order to cope with a slower pace in economic development, there are factors to consider. One of them is the illegal financial management and also the stability donations caused by the release of capital waste. Then other irregular incomes, such as making money, have been used to reduce the debt of the State to a great degree. It is important that we draw this forward at this point in the discussion of the next year's budget to realize that we are letting the budget work as the swinging device we can let it do. This can be done because in recent years we have simply kept financial matters in check. We're on our way to do it, and we're doing it. I wanted to discuss the changed position of a financial bill. We have finally closed our circle in the use of government laws. The financial bill is no longer the focal point it was for a short time when the veil was finally lifted off the sentence of the Council in the fall, which was much later than now. The financial bill is now a product or processing of an approved spring financial programme. So it is no longer such a major milestone when budgeting is proposed, as was usually the time I referred to earlier, but it is a further development of a well - developed policy. I'd like to say that there is neither cause nor reason for the council to take as much large a financial discussion or discussion as it has been in recent years. In the spring, we will take this big discussion in making financial plans and processing of it. I think it's very important that we look into it now that we've developed this work ethic. We're getting into the position to close the work course we've been pursuing for a very long time. It can be taken into consideration the question that has been presented today on the need to increase investments. However, there has been no special reason for this in the uplift that has been during our longest economic growth so far. In a somewhat dramatic and dramatic way, economic growth was reduced. There's been a fluke. It was a shock to travel services. However, I would like to say - and this has clearly been made clear in the work of the budget committees in the past few weeks and months - that because of the way we were employed for financial purposes during the springtime and how they have been successful and how the reality has been revealed to us since then has fallen with us, not against them. I'm not in the pessimism of the recession and crisis as deep as we were afraid of working on a financial program during springtime. I hope it works. It is in such a situation that we should be aware that at least we are not responding in ways that would bring us relief. That is why public investments are growing considerably. That is why there are published schemes in the budget of the 2001 -76 - billion public investments that are 3.8% of GDP and that have not been so much for a very long time. However, there is no question about whether there is enough work to do, and I can really be part of the team that wants to see a faster investment on roads and on other infrastructures. I can totally agree with that. But we are doing this, not weakness. We do so because we have prepared the money for that position. We are not now in debt, as we were in the past. We do this because we have returned the rest, and we have held the money in a very responsible way. We've run a well-finished government fund in recent years, and I refer to the contribution of a government account for 2018 that shows very good results. In fact, I will allow myself, a respected president, to refer to the findings of the 2017 budget put under a lot of tension in Icelandic politics, which I do not intend to recall long ago. But all of this tells us that we have gained a far more solid bond and have gained a more assured grip on the use of government funds, financial laws, and control of public funds than has been for a very long time. We study all the time. We're always doing better, and hopefully we'll keep on doing it. The premise that we have more public investments and faster must always be considered in the context of whether our economy is going to rise and whether it will rise quickly, since we must be very careful with the matches when there is plenty of fire food available. In this context, I'd like to present the image of the budget bill as presented here. It's actually a product of our success in a concerted way, with the labour markets, with the responsible application of the Peace and Money Office of the Secret Bank to create the circumstances now that we are not deepening a recession or deepening constriction. We, however, are building ourselves slowly up again, and I believe it will be. There's a lot to discuss about the importance of the budget bill. It'll be a win-win. In the weeks and months that follow, as is customary, I am not going to take a tenth of the outstanding examples that come to mind when reading it. Some of this has been observed in 1st. Then we'll have a meeting with our clients and guests. On the other hand, I plan to bring back the big change that has taken place and is developing in the budget bill, that the big, heavy debate on the use of money, income and money now takes place in the spring, not in the fall, as it has been in recent years. I think that in many ways today the debate reflects the situation and the strong grip we have on government funds and thank you for the most objective discussions that have become of this financial bill discussed in this fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u118	A respectable president. That's two main points I'd like to mention. It's the one with the induction I'm really interested in. I'd like to hear your opinion. A senator's opinion of where we are in the so - called production process of law that is of full value and of the points I have suggested is a complete key to saying that we are following the laws on public finances, are working under the conditions set out, including the cost of recovery, priorities, and a missing report on the development of demographics, etc. in the next few years and decades. The second is the comment about this wooden debt, which I love that it's beginning to get a little more talk about; it didn't exist a long time ago. You see, we make very often the decision to pay off debts based on the expenses we see in our debt, but the debt we owe, as it has been expressed and shown in our reports, is a great gathering need for investments. That's a lot of stuff to keep up. It's exactly like a loan. The roads go down, and there's interest. We don't see exactly how high they are, but if we saw them better, we'd make other decisions, pay off other debts that will cost us when we get all the more. [[The president calls.]] I'd be interested to see this in the context of the induction process of public financial law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u119	Mr. President. Thank you. His senator answers, and as far as possible, he will try to answer questions. I am generally very pleased with where we stand regarding the induction process and how we allow these legislation to work. We are one of the few countries who have adopted these legislation, and I was doing so in my speech that we have begun to see its products, primarily in the form that we have arrived, knowing that, with a much more reliable way of using government funds. There are stories, and you don't have to read many years back in time, as we can see that there were far more releases in the business of a state fund than we've seen in the past few years, sire the past ten years, where we were going through very unusual times. So we are generally at peace with the introduction and how we are applying these laws. Hv. A senator talks extensively about cost estimates and cost analysis. No doubt we can move further along the road in those areas and assess the impact, the cost. But somewhere, there is a frame to be wrapped around it so that it will be of some help to us. Through woodwels we have what? A senator often discussed the financial matters of the State, the inner debt that is dedicated because we are not sticking to road systems and other infrastructures. It is simply our political reality that we too can view it as certain debts that we have been paying off recently by adding money into our health system and our general social network. That must have been the emphasis. On the other hand, I can say from this platform that I also feel that my emphasis is in the way, bridges, airports, and other factors that are these economic structures that must be on hand for a long time. But for you to say it again in this sermon: We passed through almost ten years of quietness following events that we do not need to recall here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u120	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's appreciation for this summary is great, for this is just what has been mentioned by the economy. It is this social wealth, and it is this economic wealth and debt within which we have to make decisions but never really get measurements. We are not measured for the lack of material resources we have, such as airports, etc., cost us. We get a lot of information on the financial infrastructure, how much money they cost us in interest and how we like it. Without better information on social wealth and the debt there, the debt to which we owe, and the material debt to the road and airport - if we don't know the cost of that debt, we cannot make enough good decisions about where we share our money. If people knew how much we owe them to us, perhaps they would be motivated by elections or elections completely different, or they might emphasize everything else. So I welcome such emphasis toward the economy, or whatever name you want to name it. I like that word. The methods behind them are even better, regardless of the word. And finally, I want to add to it that it is easy to say in a flash and a great deal of economic growth that the economy has been well maintained here. But I'm not quite sure that there's a direct causal relationship between that, i.e. that the economic state's strength has caused this much economic growth and a lot of tension, so I would like to be careful about compliments there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u121	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator later answers, and I just want to say, "Oh, no, no. It didn't happen by itself that we came to this position. This happened because we had prepared to pay the debt of the state's debt. We've turned Kingdom interest payments into investments in hospitals and roads on a growing scale. We have reached 3.8% of land production in public investment. We've gone higher. We need to do better than we are, as I said in my speech, to do this in strengths, not weaknesses. Strong bones were needed in such a way that we were not using the vast amount of money that, for example, was not to be used. were released by a capital break to expand the government's affairs. However, we were improving our health system, in education, to fix what we needed after the contractions of the past, and that's what we've done. It's been a priority, and I don't think it took a lot of complicated Excel documents to see that the priorities were simply right and have been on our side. Other than that, I'd like to say in the cause of the previous inquiry. A senator, because I forgot to mention it, about the induction and all that process: What I feel is missing and we need to do better, and we'll work better together at work. It's a legal committee, me and what. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, is that we need to put our own place to a greater degree. We need to be more specific when we receive a three - month allowance to put on better terms for missteps, no matter which direction. We did well in the summer of 2017, where we took one party especially for a financial committee and dug to the bottom of the cause and the consequences of that arrangement. I'm not gonna run it any closer here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u122	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. I would've liked to ask you why. A senator only into the carbon account. It's about to rise by 10% and has increased considerably during the season, i.e. in the time of this government. We in the Middle East believe that this tax, this currency, is not leveled against the population in a fair way and will be relatively low in the country. This means an increase in the fuel and diesel colour. Today, it's about 12◯13 k. And then there's a 10% raise on top of it in this bill. It has also been noted, and I have mentioned it in a speech chair, that the Environment Ministry has said that there is no way to determine whether there is any success in this payment. I wanted answers from what. A senator or his opinion on how much this price has gone up and how it looks to him as a member of the country. He knows something like that. Unable to connect to device %1. I'm wondering if he can predict that this will not be a negative influence on the more scattered areas of the country and how he can see it coming. Well, now, for example. They say it's part of energy exchange, a part of the fact that people switch to electric cars. It is now much more difficult to deal with the land area and especially with the agriculture. It would be interesting to have an opinion. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u123	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For him, the Birgir of Þórarinsson answers. He gave me an opportunity to discuss carbon expenditures and energy exchanges that I would like to share in more discussions. I just want to say, we've taken this step, taxing on the polluters, and I don't comment on it because inside it is to motivate us to do better with what we're using, in this case, fossil fuels, and find other solutions when homes and businesses start to manipulate their business. It's interesting as hell. A senator brings up, and I know a lot of jobs when they're at work. The budget, that the Environment Ministry could not pull out of its hat what it would have paid to raise these carbon costs. However, I would like to draw it up here in our discussion that with the Energy Fund and the Climate Action Programme, significant funds have been given to support the construction of vehicles at loading stations. Last year there were 200 million. This year more than 200 million are being completed. So, from the point of impact, load stations. A member of the United States named transportation, is now beginning to become such a person that it is completely and completely practical to travel around the country and between most of the species of electronic vehicles. And the energy fund will over the next few weeks show the distribution of this year, where this network is still being convened. I'm just going to say that I was surprised by the great interest shown in applying to install these devices and install these stations, which restores my optimism that transport's energy exchange can go relatively fast and well for itself. But I'm going to answer it. A senator of his concern about agriculture so that we are still waiting for electrical tractors.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u124	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator responds and agrees with him. It'll be exciting to see when electric tractors come out here. But something else I wanted to think of at night. A senator in charge of this is, as noted in speeches, that not everyone can afford to buy an electric vehicle. Sadly, they are relatively expensive still. But have men, e.g. You might consider paying back credit taxes from electric trucks. There's a more specific procedure directed to a special group, which is predominantly tourists who rent these cars. But what about those who live here and own, e.g. old cars that pollute relatively much? Is there anything that could be considered, should it be supported to simply decommission such vehicles? All possibilities and equality need to be considered as well as to be obligatory in the matter of renting a car raises questions. What about trucks? What about cabs, etc.? Is it not vital that these vehicles be encouraged to move to electric cars, where they are widely used? There are various aspects of the material worth considering, so I would be happy if I did. A senator might give a small tip about not just focusing on a particular group, such as. the rentals, they keep a broader group and, for example, Old cars, for example.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u125	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator later answers. The discussion that has taken place between us, on carbon bills and inquisitions to rental cars, I'm going to answer in this way to say that this discussion is to take exactly what we are going to do in this country. I think it's very fast that we have to make it up to ourselves both in order to finance the needed transportation and also in order to face the transformation of our vehicle fleet, and we want to encourage the use of ecological energy. That's why we should place our binoculars on how we're going to tax traffic, much rather than talk in favor of rental cars or not, vans or any of these things, and make the motivation more general than we do today. I'd like to say this because of this speculation by the senator in his objection here, we do not dissuade this discussion from the huge body of tax that the state has taken from traffic, which is highly recommended to be drawn together. We need to be able to answer how we will then face other changes in financing, e.g. if, in any case, you are going to need transportation support in ways that are not being done today, which I think we should look at and discuss - but not cut it out of context and say cutbacks, not in the context of how we pass through.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u126	Mr. President. I thought there was an interesting exchange. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, the son of Thorin, and the highest. Secretary of finance this morning on the big taxation case. According to budget 2020, the largest tax change in the budget is a income tax bill for individuals and says on page 20. 107, with President's permission: The extent of tax step integration will be reduced by induction of new basal levels and by an increase in the percentage of mid-stage tax percentages. This explicit resolution harmonizes with what says on the same subject in a proposal for understanding financial schemes for the years 2020-2024. It states on page 19. 79 that in February 2019, financial and economic ministers have introduced governments's plans, which include three important changes in income taxation. On page 18. 82 goes on to say, with president's permission: Third, the release of the taxation of a partner's steps. Determination of tax steps is a step in behalf of both the simple tax system and the sex equality. The agreement has included living together with one side over the lengths of income taxation, and the other under which the earner receives a reimbursement for the stress of income taxes. An assessment of money in this relationship is shown in a report by experts on a review of income taxes and improved systems presented in February. By permission of the President: ▪ After changing into a two-stage system, the highest possible amount that will be transferred between taxes will be 5 billion. K.◯ Then, with the permission of the president, it says: ▪ At the pressures of 2018 on the income of 2017, this amount was taken at about 3.5 billion dollars. There they have the amount of $3.3 billion. After two members of the Central Party had brought attention to these plans of the government, which are so clearly described in a financial bill and a proposal to be held as a body of Congress for a financial convention in the year 2020,2024. Financial and economic ministers and his party brother, huh? paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason didn't want to know the scheduled course. Grip the latter for disaster, including by calling the members of the Central Party's tenets on what was in the requested Senate documents a gas poll. September 9th. The Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs published a report on the correction of a tax decline, which states that the integration of couples and couples who enable them to add a new personal discount will continue in the tax system. Mr. President. I welcome this transition confirmed by the secretary of finance during this morning's discussions. It is good to think that the Central Party was involved in a better conclusion in this important matter of a similar taxation that the government had clearly planned for. Mr. President. In connection with recently diagnosed budgeting programs, there has been an ever - increasing discussion of government spending and is not unnecessary. It is a special point of interest to see how the booth is expanding and, in some respects, is a sign of insufficient support on public expenses. And what do members of the board say about this? In an article, why not? paritaprevir Óli Björn, the son of Kárason, in the Morning Press that week, from 2017 to the next year, in three years, it was assumed that the State's expenses will increase by 139 billion dollars. or about 18% absolute value. These figures are a sign of the inexhaustible expansion of the booth. Looking further, the figures become even more striking and should make people wonder if there is a need to stop the expansion. A chart on the development of government, state, and rural expenditures can be found in the Habitat's Web since 1980-2018 or a 38 - year period. By 1980 government expenses were 34% of national product but 42% last year. If this growth continues, the object of the government will be taken over about half of the land's production in the middle of the century. Most people must agree that such a trend is shocking. A part of this growth is seen in the state of the State, which has more than 30% of the country's production, while the rapidly increasing proportion of rural society from 7% to 13% of national production is even more concerned. Mr President, it is necessary that politicians, both members of the United States and the General, be aware of this dangerous development and take action to reduce their activity before it is too late. Mr. President. Recently, there has been a lack of justice, and the government has at the same time condoned the increase in control over the government. More and more are being added to new institutions and existing ones. The number of workers is increasing, and the facilities are increasing, especially here in the capital area. If there are ideas of contracting the sails for government business, the first answer is always to eliminate the very few government institutions in the country. The latest is the county office. The number has dropped from 27 to nine in a few years, and a recent example from the Western Islands is still to be continued. A few days ago, it was suggested here in the city to reduce the number of police services and should be just one. And where will it be located? The foundation of the capital is growing like gorbets on a ice pile. The newly founded Iceland Office now considers nearly 40 employees a few months after its establishment. The Ministry of Presidency has swelled into the present government, and side rooms continue to grow. The latest is the plan to establish a special service site for the Ministry of Presidency for Life and for President Jón's memory, which in itself is the best case. The idea of forming a national park is hard to imagine, and it is not hard to imagine who the number of employees will soon be inside the door, based on the power that has been involved in government quality projects. The government seems determined to set up a national fund, which is some of our small city's reasons to imitate the Norwegians and to provide lovers with high-paying jobs in the management of the budget. Mr. President. Is it not correct to make things simple here in our fine country and to keep the money that may become left over in our old good government fund or simply use it for investments, e.g. in the transportation system? I don't think there's a greater chance of financial counseling and discipline. The project appears to be often overworked by managers and executives, and the only advice is to set up new offices, new institutions, complicate the system, and increase the costs that will then weigh more on taxpayers, individuals and businesses in the country. The bow blows out as never before. Mr. President. It is important, especially in good health, to show firmness and discipline in financial matters. It is obvious that the government has ample ideas for establishing new offices and increasing existing ones, including the many projects and groups in the government, with a very broad group that appeals to and endeavors to maintain contentment. But if a recession becomes difficult to return, and it is difficult to close the sails just when it is urgent that the government have a table to support the work life by maintaining jobs and projects. Mr. President. Under drumming, the government announces that taxes should now be reduced, mostly later or during 2021, i.e. In the election year. In other words, they are going to leave the next government expenses they now make to a knight. Let's leave it. But what are the effects of these tax reductions compared to the rate of higher taxes that the government announces and plans at the same time as before? A 2.5% increase in radio charge to cover the giant growth rate of the medium that is always in irons, increase in tobacco and alcohol costs, the continuing rise in carbon pay, although it has been pointed out to be completely unexamined whether its use has some minor impact on emissions of greenhouse gases and is thus just another tax rate, just being presented in a more beautiful costume. It has been suggested that the government's methods for stress of glucoc taxation may arise. hardening those who should, in fact, be more inclined to further increase the production and consumption of healthy products, on the part of sugar taxes, have a much nicer appearance and are charged with the same responsibility as the extremely sweet carbon taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u127	A respectable president. All I want to do is continue the discussion on the use of tax steps together and try to explain how the documents that have been submitted to the council call on that point. Then I'd like to first mention the financial program and presentation of ideas about the changes we made in spring. In the introduction and in the underlying terms of the financial programme, the cost of the income tax system was estimated to be a sum of money and that the subsequent change would be reduced from sources to add a tax step to the taxpayer. It's been dropped ever since. This will lead to greater tax changes, in some sense more expensive, costs for the State. However, it does appear on page 19. 107 on the budget bill and what. A senator referred to him. It simply leads from the code of law, which remains unchanged through these tax changes. The legislation for interaggregation remains unchanged, but it is thus permitted to use the middle step for the same taxation. Taking up a new bottom step makes a difference, as stated on page 2. 107, the size of the cat. But the warrant in the law has not been moved. It is not shutting down the efficiency and efficiency of steps will save taxes to billions, perhaps 2 billion or more.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u128	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The financial and economic secretary for this explanation, and I am very pleased that the plans made in a financial programme were not going to work out. He repeats here what he said earlier today, that this must not happen, and I rejoice exceedingly. It is good if we have made such a contribution so that the government has lost those plans because it is very important for married couples and couples to be able to change the individual's discount, and especially if the other party has no job or a very low income. There are a large number of people who use this very way to run homes, and these are certainly two people who run homes and natural that people should be able to take advantage of these. But I would like to repeat that I welcome this answer to a minister and that the government should abandon this path.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u129	A respectable president. If there's a further explanation, I'd like to state that we were never discussing it in any context of reducing the potential to add to the personality discount. He'll still be useful between the cat and the cat. It was all about the co-efficiency of the steps. Just so everything was on the table, the only option was to finance as best of the reduction in taxes on underpayers and underpayers. To make ends meet in the studies, this was considered, and we realized that the cost of the car was based on a reduction in taxation. This is not done, as indicated here. But at the same time, I want it to be crystal clear that it affects the size of the interbody, the degree of the fusion steps, the appearance of a kind of floor with the latest level, since the source only takes advantage of the next step below. That is why everything on page 18. 107 on the budget bill. It's a factor. Of course, changing the percentage of the middle phase also affects the situation. But the basic princely act of a partner being able to make a new person's discount and that they can use a new younger tax step mate, a tax collector, at the moment. The rule remains unchanged.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u130	Mr. President. Yes, thank you very much. Economic and financial ministers for these explanations again, in which he reiterates these issues. Of course it's understandable, and I understand perfectly that the government has to take the money she intends to use to reduce taxes at the lowest paying. Of course I realize it, and I understand it, but it has to be clear. This must be clear in a financial program. This has to be clear in the budget bill so that people can understand and perceive it. But these were certainly purposes, and there was an inspection. We were pointing this out, and we're called gas cylinders, which I really don't want to object. We have our logical case completely and absolutely. This has been said by a minister who announced that he would not stand to judge the rights of married couples and couples in a similar way, as has been for many years.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u131	Mr. President. In his talk, the senator spoke of the growth of various institutions and other nicknames. I'd like to talk to him about what he's thinking. He also said that if you had to carry a cut - throat knife, you would be cutting jobs off in the country. That's right, that's often the case. I'd like to ask the senator if they were out in the country, if they could grow if they went ashore. And what is the booth? What are we putting money on? He's talking about the government's pet project. Most of the funds in this budget bill can hardly be considered a pet project, a respectable president. Health is not a pet project, a wedding is not a pet project. A ocean - research ship is not a pet project, to support a teacher can hardly be considered a pet project. We're talking about the big context. We can disagree about all the smaller things we thought the money should deal with. But when we're talking about growing the booth, I also have to ask the senator: " Where does he want to move down into the booth compared with what big money goes into the budget bill and cut down? Where do you want the senator carrying down?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u132	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. In my speech, which took ten minutes, I do not know how to mention the privilege of giving. I don't know what it was. I was primarily involved in the expansion of institutions and the proliferation of institutions. I didn't talk about pet projects. I can give a long talk about this. I worked in the administration board for 30 years, and institutions tend to grow and grow, and this is happening. It is happening in the time of this government, which is not unique, but it is basic and in particular, in the best of terms, to keep discipline and firm in terms of government, i.e. in the government of government, and send a clear message to the institutions of state funds that they show the same in their operation anywhere in the system. It's not just tied to the capital, but it happens that when there's ideas about where to go for cutting down organizations, ideas that often come up, it's usually the first idea to cut down on the beach. I have spoken against it, and I protested it in my speech earlier. That's what I meant. I believe it may be fully examined to reduce the scope of many strains here in the capital area, as well as in the country, but not always in the country when people start to talk about cutting and reducing their strains. That was the subject of my speech at the end. I didn't talk about pet projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u133	Mr. President. You can look at the talks later, I wrote right down after the senator. But he did not answer my questions. What institutions would the senator want to reduce? If he were willing to reduce the number of jobs he wants to do in the capital area, he would be willing to leave the country, e.g. to strengthen some institutions there, to add them? Or what is the booth? So the senator did not answer. What is he talking about when he says that the booth is expanding into the budget bill when the largest money goes to what I was counting earlier? That's 44 billion on social and insurance and health issues. The big money's in these sectors, i.e. Health and insurance, transportation and education. Where do you want the senator carrying down? Here are the contributions to the Generals and to the checkpoints and to the top administrations. Will he cancel building at the International Assembly Hall, and spread the work throughout all places? Is it practical for a government fund? No, it's shown by a financial committee that it's just not at all. The increase in expenses there is first and last of it, but there's not much money in the big financial context, and that's why I'm asking. It is irresponsible to talk about booths when we are talking about what we are running together. It has these large financial resources, and I don't think the senator should try to slip past it by taking some phrase against me, whether he gave a pet project, or not a pet project. When the Central Party presents suggestions or ideas, the senator must be able to answer what they are. Where do we go down to reduce the number of institutions regarding the budgets discussed here?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u134	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, where to load to shrink the booth? For example, the Ministry of Presidency. There's been an enormous increase in workers just over the last two years, huge growth, you can check that out, you can look at figures about it. It's my suggestion, starting there, just starting at the top, the Ministry of Presidency. What institutions are expected to land? The Ministry. One is to be moved if not two agents in the country, e.g. To Akureyri. The Ministry of Environment, e.g. That would be a good start. It's a suggestion. I've already answered the question. A senator asking this question. [[No.]] Export the Ministry to the country, that would be a good first step and a courageous step. She mentioned the health system. I was reading it a few days ago that the land hospital was up to 5 billion over to the budget. Is that discipline?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u135	...cutting down.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u136	Is it attached? I'm talking about control, I'm not talking about cutting down. [[Up front.]] If they have so much money and so much money to take care of, they are to resist the law of the law. [[Up front.]] I'm talking about discipline and firmness in the management of state funds. That's not what you're doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u137	Answer the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u138	I already answered the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u139	No. Where to carve in the booth?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u140	A respectable president. We're discussing a bill for financial purposes. It is strange that there have been about tens of billions of dollars a year, or about 140 billion in three years. The state's response is out of control and is over tens of years from 32% of GDP to 42% of GDP today. Of this product in the state, 30% and 14% of the income growth in rural society have nearly doubled at the same time or. But has this increase really paid off to those who need it? An older citizen, an invalid, a low-paying man? No, she hasn't. How tragic it is to know that the budget has reached about 1,000 billion, and it has always been said that when it comes to good health, older citizens, disability, and low-payers would gain their compensations and increases. V.E.G. The minister of finance spoke in his talk that there had been no greater gains. People who are on the lowest pay and pay and in pension don't buy money. They don't know about the power of purchase. They don't get the power. Hence, talking about money giving to everyone is amazing. He does not, and it is a serious matter when those who do not share it here are given a false hope. It is a serious matter to say to people: By 2021, you will already have 10,000 bucks. reduction of taxes. This isn't right. It doesn't make sense. It's forgotten to report that at the same time as this tax percentage, the new tax product, should arrive, the lowest tax product, should reduce the personal discount by 5,000 k. vs. Who does that? If there was some meaning in this, and that there should be some real tax reduction to those who need them and give them hope and tell them they'll get them, you don't say: "We'll give you a lower tax rate with one hand than we'll take from you by person. At least The character discount is. It would have been a great step, just to let him stay or raise according to a consumer calculator number as to be done. No, that's way too much for this government. They had to make sure that those who had least received the food rations that were to be passed on to them. That's when they say "big." Secretary of the budget that the new tax level should be of some value. But we're talking about people who are living today at 215,000 bars. down payment. 70% of the micro-germs get it. And it is surprising that at the same time, there is a large group of employees who work full - time. What's she giving it back? Yes, 230,000 bucks. down payment. I'm sure of that, and I know that none of us in this council hall would want to live on those terms. That's why it's ridiculous for us to give these terms to others. The rise in older citizens' pensions and disability will be only 3.5% or less than half the pay to be raised next year. Once again, economic violence is being maintained in the last few decades toward the number of people who are the worst in our society. Is the budget a correction to this group back in time, as we senators, Ministers, and all other hired men have? No, no, no. Not for discussion. A Promise of Correction and Their Time? No, nothing. A statement that this group could no longer wait? Inside words, again and again. The 5,300 sufferers, some of them in the pay range of $300,000. a month on pension, as mentioned at the highest level. In the past, the minister of finance is people who receive a pension fund and a salary and who become financially impaired probably a year later. Sadly, in most cases, the overall pay rate of disability due to post-exposure reduction is not to be determined. I think that's a violation of human rights because their right payments are corrected a year later, but they don't show up. I can't believe we're allowed to have the system like this, that someone has $350,000. a month on a total salary over the year, then a year later, it's gone down. I have experienced that every dollar of the government's insurance agency for a year has been taken away from me a year later. But did that come up with a tax report? Did it come out somewhere? No, this is how they hide the repairs, which sucks because there's no need for them to be able to show these numbers in real time. Then he spoke to the highest. Secretary of finance at 8 billion dollars. contribution to the construction of a new hospital, i.e. the increase. But at the same time, there is a business hall. It seems that the hospital's management cannot be properly restored. They pointed out the highest. Secretary of finance says that many pensioners would not have built up the rights of a pension fund and would be worse. But what about stopping the first 60,000 dollars. The monthly payments from a pension fund? That's the worst thing for women to do. It's a so-called impairment of 60,000. there are in many cases a possession of all the bank's pensions. 100% tax from this government. Isn't that disrespectful to people who are getting from a pension fund, largely women who have earned an incredibly small right from a pension fund, from 10, 15, 20, 30 to 60,000, that it's all taken? Of course there's also discrimination because at the same time, we've set $25,000. An older citizen's vacation goal. Why do we stand out as different? And why on earth are we also discrimination in that way so that those on unemployment will receive 30,000 dollars. More than a cripple? I'm sure a donor needs 30,000 bucks. to cover expenses and expenses they may face. The rise in child improvement and the increase in their limit of impairment is not sufficient to allow for an increase in all costs. I mean, tents are nothing more than taxes. What on earth are we going to say to people who are going to have a 3.5% rise by the next year, which is 8,645 k. For tax, after the real estate fees have been raised, the car fees, the parishes, the radio costs, new garbage charges, all kinds of fees? When the government gives people the hope that they will receive 10,000 calls, is it not obliged to say that they are opposed to personal discounts and all the government's fees, to subtract them, and to state exactly how much is left? What is it really that these people are receiving? Why doesn't he? Yes, because simply he knows and has calculated it, and the government also knows that there is nothing. It's about to pass 10,000 with your left hand and take 20,000 bucks with your right hand. And it's terrible and pathetic for those people who rely on them that it's finally time for them to get some righteousness. At last, we've been saying and trying to make it more beautiful: now is your time. Ten thousand will be yours. decreases in taxes. Don't believe it because it's going to deduct, the personal discount, and all the fees and new taxes that will be laid on the person.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u141	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Kristinsson Kristinas, who cares about the ideal microorganism, makes them his subject, and that's good. It is important for disability workers to have a good standing in the council, and unfortunately, there are too many in the disability - saving world of poverty. There's a situation that needs to be changed, and I think that although this is a 3.5% addition and despite the changes made, to form a dollar in front of a dollar in the last year, we're not done yet to the level of disability, we need to do better. I agree with what. A senator in it. But I would like to ask. A senator referred to the constant expansion of the state, as well as the meaning of it. To me, the state's advances are that of putting money on the welfare system, putting money on payment for pensioners, health care, in the elderly, in transportation and education matters. How is it compatible to want to gather in government business and, at the same time, do better with certain groups of society? I understand the view of wanting to do better with certain groups of society, but I don't see what it's like to reduce the extent of the state, because that's exactly what's so important in this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u142	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For the questions and answers, the Árnadóttir Þóra Eagledotir for the question and the answer. If we start at a crown, against a crown. Yeah, it's 65 bucks across from a dollar, that's good. But that's far from being right because we know that only by this change, to 65 dollars, is still taking 81⁄29 billion each year that older citizens have already received, but the poor are not receiving. I'm afraid that's not good. And the other, also, is a 3.5% raise in disability, only about half of that given to employees on April 1. Why do poorer and older citizens never get the same things they do when they earn? Why do older citizens and poor people not get their life certificate the way others did? How, though, are we to cut this rock down? Yeah, we could start by cutting off a big mouth and just letting it be just like everyone else, on the usual market, RUSV, the State Radio, 46.5 billion there. We might also consider foreign matters. Do we have to have all the embassys, all this embassy? We can do this umbilization all over, and I'm saying for my part that I'd rather have us cut down on something like this, just so that those who don't have food for today, not for themselves, but worry about whether they have food for their children, get an advance they can survive, and don't have to worry about the next day.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u143	Mr. President. It so happens that when it comes to money into the social security system, there are very large amounts of money. I don't think we should skate by it. Actually, I don't know if I understood why. A senator's right to say that he wants the State to come in no way to financing RUS. He spoke of 5 billion. I don't know if the Senator's talking about the fact that we should totally abandon support for RUS. That would not be enough. It takes much more than that. There are other ways to make money. Hv. A senator also spoke of cutting down the foreign service. Yes, there are some things you can cut down there. But there's also an enormous interest care in Iceland, which makes us get more money in the box, so I don't think there's a huge amount. And the reason why I mention this is that I think this is a matter of responsibility, it should not be used as a phrase to cut down the state's face and use it as some kind of magic solution to improve group status. It's not that simple. If it was that simple, I think it had already been financed. I think this presentation is dangerous, i.e. mixing the desire to speak for improved groups that really need but using empty phrases, such as cutting down the state's perspective at the same time, as if it were the solution. [[The president calls.]] It's dangerous politics.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u144	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. When you talk about cuts, it always kicks back. I stabbed, for example. There is a chance that a blunder could be reduced to a single channel, a safety channel. And the entire booth can be considered as a whole. If we just take the total financial package of 1,000 billion and take 2% of it, we have 20 billion. How much would it cost to raise the pay of older citizens and into 300,000? It would cost something similar. But we can finance it right away by supporting the people's White House bill, the taxation of deposit in a pension fund. That's 72 billion. We put everything in order, the hospital, the whole health system of our own, the older cities, the microchip, in place of everything so that everyone can live with. It tells itself that surviving the 215,000 cc. In a month, to try to survive it, it can't be done. We know that. We don't have to talk about it anymore. To come up here and say you have some phrases and you can't cut down and you can't find money for this pet project? These aren't pet projects, these are serious cases, people who are sick out there who's thinking right now: Do I have a meal for myself today? And if I have food for myself, or not, do I have food for my children? This is a fact. You can laugh at it or make fun of it, unfortunately. But that's a fact.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u145	Mr. President. After a long period of growth and economic growth, we now look forward to a slightly changed reality. Even the brightest economic forecasts show that lying ahead can be very difficult, both homes and businesses that have driven this growth. This is true of various employment practices, e.g. Tourism and the construction industry A number of uncertainty and risk factors are listed in the highest budget. Minister. First, the development of tourism is not known. Second, there is uncertainty about the continuing growth of residence investors. There is still a certain uncertainty about the workforce where tens of thousands of public employees will yet be negotiated and we don't know how the gang's going and unemployment will develop. Besides, we have no idea how the world's best interests will grow and how our major business countries will depend on it. All of this can have a profound impact on our economy too. However, it is clear what the government is going to do for all the richest people and the largest companies. They're supposed to reduce hunting costs, eliminate the bank tax, protect capital owners for inflation, and capital tax will remain the lowest in the North countries. Hv. Harðardóttir So, I'm going to concentrate on my own factors. I'd like to talk in particular about measures in the interest of the smallest of the enterprises, which are the grieving part of Icelandic employment. The majority of companies in the country are small companies or micro enterprises, but governments have more than taken into account the largest companies. Here it may be right to make a decision that small companies are those with 49 or fewer employees while the microspheres have nine or less. Of course, this enterprise is very diverse, both in size and in size. Some start with a small number of employees and succeed in growing and increasing. This is especially true of innovation companies, often based primarily on intelligence, is now in the middle of the digital technological revolution, and has the whole world as a market. If we are to succeed in the future, these companies need to become a larger part of our valuables and exports. Then there are the other companies who are not going to grow up, are, and want to be small, but are still enormously important to our community. These are often services, sometimes a family business, and the main purpose may be simply to create and create one's own, perhaps one's own. Some other living bread. These enterprises are proportionately more in the capital area and are therefore very important at this weight point in which 70% of the population lives, while they are absolutely vital for smaller areas. Under these circumstances, the Typtic close - up service, e.g. hair shops, plumbing companies, shops, or a small design firm, but also individual employees in companies, often starters, whose headquarters is far away from home, even in foreign lands. In other words, the small towns around the country make the necessary services, diversity, but they can also be magnetic and attractions for young people who look here and go home to study so that they return. In the European Union, people use a thumb rule called, by permission of a president, or by first thought. It is thus encouraged when setting rules, stipulations, taxing, or working-related legislation should be considered first for smaller companies and how the environment will affect them before it is applied to all. I think it's a way of thinking that we have to start developing around here. Small companies are the driving force of individual initiatives and creation and often lead to new ideas. There's often the people who turn the ideas on first. But they find it very difficult, especially difficult to get their feet in an unstable environment and often face challenges and obstacles that prove to be less difficult for giant companies for various reasons. Therefore, we need to take decisive steps to improve the environment of micro enterprises, to promote growth, creation and pioneers, and particularly in support of research and development, especially now that our economy is getting cold. One of the largest growing rods of Icelandic employment is the intellectual industry that many have discussed here, which operates within the business that builds its competitiveness primarily in the human wealth that works there. They base the business model on innovation, evolution, technology, design, special status and connection, but the key is, in fact, the valuable creation of an enterprise based on the knowledge of the resource rather than the use of natural resources. They have considerable advantages in many fields ahead of our good old professional roads, which, of course, must remain. These companies have great potential for growth - even if we have to do better, we have well - educated people. They often demand less capital in the first place. The cost of pay in Iceland is competitive at the moment and distances are less important when it comes to public goods. So Iceland has a lot of potential for this, and we need to take care of it. However, there is concern that since 2014 the number of new registration enterprises associated with innovation has been reduced. This is a reverse trend that must be reversed. Icelandic knowledge and innovation companies have criticized the roof on reimbursement of research and development costs and a number of companies have moved their activities elsewhere. Iceland is at the bottom of OECD's list of countries using a reimbursement method to support research and development projects and even a triple of the maximum may not be enough to change that image. I think a lot of school would really be the right answer. If so, it is not enough to turn down the insurance bill a little bit throughout the stairs, though it is a positive step. I believe there is an even greater need to turn down the insurance fee on companies that are most oppressive, i.e. those enterprises which have relatively high pay costs. These are often small companies. This is especially important before companies start fighting in banks and downturns is difficult. I realize that such a reduction would lead to a substantial loss of income for a government fund, and it has to be sure that enough money goes into a non-employment fund and a feeding reserve in spite of such reductions. On the other hand, such a procedure could prevent the layoffs and even the bankruptcy of companies in important areas, where pay costs weigh heavily and could save many of these companies in the more scattered areas of the country. One way to finance this is e.g. to postpone the planned decrease of the bank tax, which is approximately the same number as this would cost. In the United States, the contribution of micro enterprises to GDP is unusually high compared with the European Union. In fact, most companies here are considered micro enterprises when they are formed. But we need to create them with growing circumstances so that they can grow, if people are interested in them. It is as if giving your children light and wholesome food when they are young. Just at the end of the day, because I don't have enough time to finish the talk, there's a very, very complicated, very small policy environment here, especially for smaller units. Of course, rules are of utmost importance to create firmness, equilibrium and transparency, as well as social maintenance, but if they are to produce the desired results, they must be plain and simple. I myself have been running construction companies for 15 years, and I know very well what it's difficult to keep such things floating when there's a lot of fluctuations up and down. The crown's gang has, for example. I don't suppose the government had a lot of bad influence on these companies, but I don't think the government was planning to change coins. I'll have to come back later and finish this speech, but I'm ready to say if there's anybody.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u146	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator, president of the United States, for a very interesting speech. Much of the talk went to the small company, the wands all over the country, and I can say every word. We're here to take care of these companies. I found this very refreshing and interesting to be an introduction to this discussion. I'd like to now say that the government has done a lot of things in this area, and I would like to mention reimbursement through the tax system for research and development to be used by all companies. But certainly there may be bigger companies, like cot. A senator came on, better equipped for research and development. I myself have repeatedly proposed a plagiarization proposal that turns to official cluster policy. It is precisely designed to use the products throughout the country and to foster such enterprises by building a bridge between knowledge society, schools and small companies that can cooperate and participate in such cluster activities new knowledge in their work. But I would like to point to a very interesting statement from the government, i.e. A technical transfer office. It does not sound very good, but it was followed by a report on these subjects. It is designed to be a bridge between research and innovation, providing the fruits of science and knowledge and to be used by smaller companies, small companies that may not have the power to use this knowledge on their own and, as a result, to use this knowledge. A senator entered, being a novelist as they really are.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u147	Mr. President. I know this mall thing a little, I've already looked at it, and I shall not be able to try to pay for it's street. I think these scales are just weights. I think there may be no one in particular who has been focusing too much on these giant companies and giant branches. But I think it's about time, just because of a change in evolution, we start thinking differently. I thought it would be interesting to hear a viewpoint, whether people can agree with me that they should consider either a gradual or a gradual insurance spending, so that small companies should be taken into consideration. I'm also talking about changes in taxes that encourage investments, simple regulations and services so small companies don't have to be out all over town if only to start a small business. I'll give taxes incentives to strengthen growing companies, within e.g. The software industry, and the research systems of the industry so that people who want to start a small business have someone to ask for help and help. Most important, I think that the basis for such a community to really live and thrive is that we still increase the emphasis on industrial and technical education and creative articles. That's where my natural concerns are considerable because it seems to me in the budget bill that my donations to school are better reduced than those raised.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u148	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The son of Einarsson's Logi for the answer. I visited a technical transfer office that got the name Desolation. I think it should be useful to smaller companies, although I have to admit that I haven't studied the job since that recently opened office started a year ago and how it was used. Behind me is a report prepared by Boston Consulting Group, if I recall correctly. It focuses on the dynamic memory units of the entire country. I think we need to consider more carefully that innovation, research, and evolution into the future, and that is, of course, this more professional text of future economic growth that we must bear in mind. Happily, we have been blessed with an ever - increasing number of donations for innovation, research, development, and education. If we take together contributions for research, development, and education, that is, if I recall correctly, about 17.6% of what we have done since that government began. If we take the entire budget, I'd like them to be growing to school and to see the financial bill as much as it is. But then we have to look at education in a larger context. It is education and culture. Of course, there are many things we are doing. Perhaps I would like to give some significant results in finally doing something about teaching and teaching and caring for the teaching work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u149	Mr. President. Yeah, at what. A senator may put the pills in his budget bill together. Looks like a bit of a shrink to me. But well, we all agree that these areas need to be advanced, and I think we can agree on a lot of things when it comes to the development of employment, both to supply more efficient and varied resources, than to make good use of the morphological changes that are developing. In fact, we are familiar with these very fish productions, where you decide to open a pen factory and then you have to create a new pen, a new pen, and a new pen, while digital products are available, so it may take a very long time to develop one product, after which a product is sold free. It travels between parts of the world on fragments of a second without its resulting carbon tracks or costs, so for a small country with high levels of education, it is such an interesting option. After the marathon talk here in spring, all of us agree that even the energy resource that we thought was inexhaustible is not at all. Similarly, the fishing resource is not, but the intelligence, if we know how to harness it, is surely utterly unlimited. And in fact, it is so remarkable with the human brain that as we use our heads more and less if we forget it and become critical and take things for granted. So I'll put my hopes up for it. A member of the body can work together on such fine issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u150	Mr. President. I like what you're doing. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, chairman of the budgetary committee, agrees to thank and thank the senator for this speech. So he threw it into the hall to see if he would follow him in discussing the growth of his secular life on the terms he traced here, and I answer yes to that question. You see, when he started talking about how we could use the insurance money and other factors to do that, I was listening. I find this very interesting input and the need for debate as a matter of course. A senator has here. I may have wanted to take more from the senator, even though I eagerly await the events he preached. In both the current budgets, in budgets over the last few years, and then in financial programs, we have put 2,500 million to facilitate cables throughout the country. I believe it, and I know it's already starting to turn jobs into scattered settlements and support these companies as a cause. A senator mentioned, like the mind - working industry and various services that can be done through the Internet. I'd also like to mention campaigns as the highest. The marine and agricultural minister announced in a policy discussion last night, a review of the surveillance system the two professionals have launched. There's a lot of work to do, and I'd like to hear from you. A senator's view of this. It's not simple to revise a surveillance system. But there are some basic elements that we want to keep in order and must not escape. But if a senator could take only part in the work I was describing here, the fiber optic project, and then reevaluate the surveillance system, discussing how he would still want to do that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u151	Mr. President. Yes, the fiber optic project is very important. I think we can agree that it has had a tremendously good effect. I know examples from many parts of the world, such as the U.S. Northeast lands where young people, miners, have been able to return, even engage in some type of farming but work on translation, graphic design, and all sorts of things that do not require a specific location. What has been worse about this project is that the rural communities may have been inviting them to do this, the least they could get from the one who needed it most. At least that's the experience I had with it. But that may be a misunderstanding. However, there is a need to make sure that these reach more widely and are everywhere, preferably in the most scattered areas. As for the surveillance system, I certainly would like to consider how it can be simplified. But like a dog. A senator rightly says, we need to make sure that there is some stability and clarity because we also need to protect people's social status and social rights and such. On the other hand, I have always found an amazing, coming from the construction sector, where I sometimes work with construction companies that work with 70-580 people, and there are two, three carpenters with a small business that is quite important in the service of small towns, that there are the same criteria for the big company as there are little when it comes to quality management, responsibilities, and insurance, and so on. This, of course, is far beyond what needs to be done. So at times we make our life overly complex. These are two things I'm sure will not get in the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u152	Mr. President. Let's continue through the fiber optic project and the weakest settlements. Recently it has simply been so that the amount of money targeted for urbanisation has been directed there to settle the position that a senator points to and is clear to all. I'm totally agreeing with it. A senator, in his previous answer, told how little difference we make between small agriculture and large companies in all these heavy systems we expect companies to follow. I think it's just one thing to do, and it's a completely independent thing to wind it off. But what I want to do in return to my second answer is our interest in getting them done without a location, perhaps asking the senator to discuss it. I don't think that, basically, we don't disagree about the importance that we stop viewing the government and the government as one permanent home. But I'd like to discuss which routes and motivations we could apply to make this work faster. Just as we have discussed the fiber - optic project and the circumstances it brings in to carry out jobs regardless of location, it is essential that we begin to isolate and control the motivation that we can use to make this work real, that we move our jobs back out again, and that they will actually be without location. For the surveillance system, finally, a respectable president, we are also required to use the surveillance system to be improved. Then I mention e.g. A competitive patrol in which the United States organization can become more effective in making better use of investments than just being cops and not saying what to say but also pointing out ways to go.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u153	Mr. President. Yeah, I think that's the last thing that's going to happen. paritaprevir Haraldur, the son of Benediktsson, is just right and interesting. I remember how the government changed: When you put one toe across the threshold in the past, you looked at a person as if you had changed, but it crossed into being a very good and informative guide. This, of course, should be the case. I agree that it is extremely important that we encourage ourselves to work without location. It's just not that 75% of all the people in the capital area are there just because they want to live in the capital. It's just because many of us were forced to do so, even though it's extremely good here. We are a small nation in a vast country, and we simply had to put our health care, our culture, our courts, our lawgivers, everything in the same place, so we need so much to come here. But with this new technology, people will have the opportunity to live, if they will, in their locality. I think the government should go first. The EEA is exemplary in this regard. It just offers that you can apply for anywhere in the country and work anywhere. On the other hand, I think it would strengthen these ideologies if we decided that in several places in the country, Akureyri, Egressians, Westlands, the Icefjords - on the Hornfjord is such a set - there would be places where some institutions and businesses would be together and where people could benefit and, as well, enjoy one another, drink coffee. Singleness in front of a computer can be ideal for only a limited period of time. I think the other one would be more productive and enjoyable, and I feel that the government should be used to further such centers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u154	Mr. President. We will discuss budgets for the year 2020, when members of the Parliament have been covering today. Perhaps I'm going to focus on a relatively small number of compromises. This is how general it can be said, as many of the members of the board have entered today, that some changes are being made, including: on the IRS, in connection with these budgets, which will be useful in reaching the country's interest, in distributing taxes, and in fairer, and the rest of the tax system most to those with the lowest income. But I'm going to focus more on a few things, as mentioned at the outset. It's remarkable, if we look at it with an open mind and try to look at it a little bit, that the budget of this year is still being added to the contribution we are going to the health system and to the media. The health minister is approximately 8% increase between year and year. After all, the increase in the reign of this government has reached about 32%. That does not mean everything, but the amount goes well over 60 billion is about 63 billion, which has been added to this fundamental system. There you are, I mean, the focus of the current government. Clearly, the promises made to add handsome to our main system of things and also to the interior have followed through. In particular, the subset of this important system is a joy to see the degree to which health care has been maintained. It is a pleasure to see the improvements that have taken place in the nursing business. It is adding significantly between the years, this year by 13%, and although much of it is due to the growth of nursing, it is just the built - in structure that has been called after. That is exactly what humans have been asking for. However, it is not that everything is perfect, not yet. Fortunately, projects remain. So I specifically refer to the members of the committee in what is happening. Legal committees, both government and government, that special attention should be given to matters of concern. The Board of Directors of Nurses and Nurses. This is something that has been done and is in the government covenant, or covenant, mentioned, and it is important that we try to deal with the anxieties that have been expressed in public areas over the position of these institutions. I think that's important. Secondly, there are other aspects of welfare, i.e. Things under the Ministry. Social and child-friendly minister, being made a significant change. Perhaps it is proper to mention that, because people do not realize that it is at the top of the case. The increase in the reign of this government has been 36%, i.e. Some 76 billion have been added. We have heard that in our discussion today and yesterday's debate that the senators talk about little doing and that there is no evidence that the government is doing decent things. Yet, it is still being added. Of course, the government does not take any huge changes in one year or two, but gradually we are able to turn, let's say, this ship more in the best interests of life, more in the edification of the health system, in the interior, as this government was established - and it's well. It is always a joy to see that governments can fulfill the promises they make when they start. There is something else that has not received enough attention during the discussion today, and in fact, some members of the conference have gathered to 2.5% of the interest in the others and these government charges between the years. This is special in many ways because what is actually being done is increasing more than a dollar's increase and more constant repercussions between years than previously, i.e. Not fully modified index increase. This means that the State's authority is in this way directly helping not to contribute to the inflation, to reduce the heat and pressure that contribute to the loss of prices. This is very positive and will, in turn, contribute to reducing the cost of households, including the Because of inflation and interest. It's a joy. Finally, I would like to mention just the good news that are in the budget for positive intentions on environmental factors. It is especially heartwarming to be on the move and to expand the appeals of environmentally friendly vehicles. For example, there is an amendment of a reimbursement tax from environmental-friendly cars in rentals, which can be of great importance and may be relevant to our image as a environmental economy and a country that really wants to take something into account in this regard. It's also adding to so-called green taxes, and I think we're on an important path. Of course, these are no giant steps, but there is a strong aim for those who are contaminated by cities, while those who look for ways to reduce pollution enjoy it, and I think that is important. I'd like to be closed, because it's been mentioned, not only to this financial debate, but also to a financial debate over the past few years, that the government is not doing enough to meet the children, to point out that in this very financial capacity, the only way to increase the contribution to child reform is over 8%. In this government's working time, the rise in child reform is now more than 37%, and that is extremely important. This is a very important message to a family in the country and, in fact, a very important message to the community: This government is going to do something to keep the interests of children and family in first place.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u155	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the talk and agree wholeheartedly with him when he calls attention to a limited rise in the rate of dollar bills and its lack of merit. In fact, if we charge it to the end, it is a tax loss. But what caught my attention in his speech, and I wanted to have a word with him a little more about nursing. It's been discussed quite a bit at the scene. In recent years, the legal committee has taken a number of cases into consideration, but even more of it has been made available to members of the committee. We spoke especially about nursing homes. Then I'm going to throw it to the ground. paritaprevir Ólafur Gunnarsson's son discuss our possible routes. I think that in a certain way, nursing facilities alone can, as we have considered so far, not be the solution, but we also need to look for other ways. There's another factor I'd like to draw out too. It is a business form or complex holding, a management form, and a responsibility for the operation, which is quite a matter of complexity. In many cases, the responsibility for business ends with the rural communities. I'll include a small example with many parallels, the responsibility of the Dala Corporation on the management of a nursing home in Silver Talent. For a small community with a low average income in the area, this is a very heavy load. We need to discuss more, precise and detailed in this room how we're going to get our business settled so that there's more money than we can afford, but other ways that we can possibly find, and I'm going to beg. A senator considering this with us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u156	Mr. President. How much time do we have? We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson could likely be able to add much of the day and into the night without necessarily reaching a conclusion. But it is true that the senator enters, in some respects, the unique nature of the operation of nursing homes in Iceland is, in some respects, the inhumanities of many. It is from a clean, private business to a clean, state - of - the - state business. In between, free communities, rural communities, sometimes federal institutions, parts of the local community institutions, etc. It's really complicated. As the senator knows, I have spent a large part of my life working with such institutions and at least receive insight into how things could be won. It is shocking, as the senator agreed, that there is not always clear where the underlying responsibilities of the institutions lie, and even small communities may sometimes have to relax the management of a nursing home when, as the members of the council know, one space may cost some 14,000 million. K. every year. It will be very soon to become severe if the clump is any. I don't have a solution on it, but the Senator decided we need to find other ways. There I agree completely with the senator. We'll blow up the state funds very quickly and definitely if we continue in the present system, building more and more nursing homes to meet the growing numbers of older people. [[The president calls.]] We need to find other solutions, including additional community and state services.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u157	Mr. President. I'm quite aware of that. A prime committee wanted to prevent a parallel in the public talk program. But I was interested in hearing the senator answer, since I don't think that a few people have the same expertise in the current field of expertise. I want to put my mind back on that we have in the past few years. The legislators tried to meet small homes in small rural areas, to control their business so that they do not become a burdensome pack fund, as is true, far too widely seen. I'm going to allow myself, a respectable president, to announce that I think there must be some thorough discussion with this budget now on which way we're going to look out of this. I know it's the highest. Although it was not a long time for her office, a health minister is our helper in it. We also have excellent members of the health companies who offer this service, the self - possession institutions we are assigned to use. But I am helping myself to talk about the budget now and to focus on how we are going to develop that long - term service and get better control of the donations and households so that they will not become our concern today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u158	Mr. President. Yes, it is true that in many areas, small business modules are very difficult and difficult to deal with. Of course, this has been reacted directly through the years. Legal committees, but also sometimes with direct intervention by the Ministry of Health. But like a dog. In effect, a senator was saying that we have to stop this piece of skinting. We have to stop treating this with micro-dose surgery. We must allow ourselves to enter into our discussion of how we really want this and how we want to improve the platform of such homes. How do we want to make sure that our homes are really able to function and render the Kingdom - preaching work? One part of the answer could be that by increasing their rural development, as is now being proclaimed by the highest power. Transport and Regional Ministers, they may be able to take more responsibility for the operation of these households. There is no secret that I have long been a spokesman for the fact that the aging business should be the business of the local society, but I am not so desperate to argue that it can be done with the arrangement we have today and that it is a private basis for business. That's absolutely impossible. To take them step by step, rural society must have more stroke power. They need to be larger, and the public services they want to buy from their homes and services to benefit their inhabitants.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u159	Mr. President. I'm going to do a little research on issues that I didn't get into in my first talk, where there's no time. First, I'd like to go over a little genetic tax. He's due in this bill for $5.1 billion. We're about to lower taxes on the lowest wage in the country, and we in the Central Party celebrate all taxes. However, as mentioned above, it is somewhat unclear whether this is possible to influence the nation's middle class, whether they need to be affected by the costs involved. But I think it's right to consider a little bit of the need to reduce the genetic tax. It was elevated after the economic collapse from 5% to 10% of the tax stock. This was done under special circumstances and reasons, and it was primarily a means of ensuring financial resources in the face of difficulties. The state funds status is much better now, but taxprosentan is still still at 10%. In addition, it is interesting to consider the fact that independence was transferred by independent officials at the last noncommunication bill to the reduction of the genetic tax. I miss a little bit that they didn't take this matter further in the discussion about the budget bill because this bill was just good and I supported it. It included the plan to make the genetic tax more progressive and to be 5% of the first 75 million of the tax stock of the grave, as well as 10 percent of 75 million and more. We need to keep in mind that the value of the tax stocks of the fiscal product has been taxed before, both in the form of income taxes, capital taxes, and property taxes. Then there is the strain for calculating the genetic tax, in fact, double taxed by this tax. So I wanted to promote, Mr. President, because I believe it is reasonable and normal that this matter will be considered in connection with the fact that we're here to lower taxes. There was a tax recovery that was substantially elevated, from 5% to 10% after the economic collapse, and circumstances are quite different then and less needed to have the tax percentage that high. I also just wanted to come on, not to include it in the above talk, agricultural contributions, and especially after research, development, and agricultural innovation are up to 42 million or so, which must be considered a relatively small contribution in view of what lies ahead of the agricultural system. This will be the import of agricultural products, i.e. Meat and carnivores, eggs and dairy products, free from the European Union and this results in a significant impact on agriculture and the need to strengthen the development and innovation of agriculture and meet the big changes in Icelandic agriculture. I'm sorry, but I have to say that our interest interests in the European Union in this matter and on behalf of the agricultural industry failed badly, and we're stuck with the fact that we're living in an area of agriculture as far as they've been. But I see that time is running away and saying good things, and then coming into the discussion later with 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u160	Mr. President. For word's sake. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, the son of Thorin, for the contributions to agricultural research I just want to give an answer as the sounds are, without asking a specific question at the back of my head. A senator. For the first time in a very long period of time, though, we are taking the step of increasing the donations needed for agricultural research. It does not come from just one direction, there are other foundations. We have also made progress in raising contributions to university and then funding for research. I don't think that in this context, in the discussion, we're gonna have to forget how we're going to live in this industry, and then we're gonna get research from somewhere else. I know and I want to tell you what. A senator's new policy of agriculture is very focused on creating a situation for his employees and their scientific staff to collect from a research fund. Sadly, this is how we can have strong opinions, and we can discuss it for a long day, that the part of our country in research funds and various developing funds is rather sad, and what we should do is talk and even research. The budget for funding, the distribution of funding. So I wanted to make a point, we're once again rebuilding research into agriculture, and we're preparing the basic institutions that they can look after in other places to do tests that I take heart by reason of. A senator must be important.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u161	Mr. President. Thank you. For this excellent input, a senator can wholeheartedly agree with him that the region has placed a sharp object on a table when it comes to research grants. I think it's about 35 million for agricultural resistance studies, and I would have liked to see that amount higher, especially in view of what has happened and lies ahead of us in agriculture, but it is very important to have access to other sponsors. I'll agree with that with what's happened. Senator. It's necessary for us to be prepared when we arrive here, as we know, raw meat, unfortunately. It is, and it will soon be. Another aspect of this matter is our clean stocks, we don't know how they'll be able to rely on if there were some diseases for which our good livestock stocks are vulnerable. It may cost a considerable amount of money if that were to happen, and it actually came out in my inquiry at the highest level. Agricultural minister that if so far the country had serious housing diseases, it would be the State to provide a water supply of damages to these materials. It's been shown, and it's the right thing to do. [[The president calls.]] But the point is, it is very important to expand research in the light of what lies ahead in our vital agriculture.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u162	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. There are two things I wanted in my later answer to his speech. First, the interpretation of the bill that was often called the raw meat bill. I've been successful in the agricultural country for a long time, and I'm going to tell you that what it was and the policy it was probably one of the most news that has been offered to change the environment of Iceland for a very long time. I just want to say that for a very long time, I haven't seen enough of the Allied Parliament as ambitious as it came. Secondly, I would like to discuss specific contributions to the agricultural sector and the development of those to whom I know why. A senator has sometimes picked up and discussed. The reduction in budgetary production, with a considerable amount of money today, should also be considered in view of the fact that it was merely solving an old knot that had a retirement debt in the old agricultural system that developed at the Iceland Farming Society, which was the semi-valued institution of that time. Penalties of workers serving there and other institutions were left at Iceland's Farmers Associations. For many years, it was a struggle to obtain some refinement of the government's financial relations and the company of farmers reached last year. This explains to a large extent the decline of the donations that now appear to us in the budget of this year and year. [[The president calls.]] It is not all that seems to be involved and that we need to discuss openly that for years and decades, we have had to fight to clean up old systems for a long time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u163	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator proposes this. I think this is a drop of 279 million on this bill and about 237 million on the farm deal, if I'm right. Of course, this is a bit of a problem with other employment sectors and increases in the general budget, with less agriculture coming from year to year, showing natural government policies. I think it's pretty clear that agriculture may not be at the top of the list of thoughts, if you can put it that way. But we must cherish our agriculture, and I have said that all nations support their agriculture. Now in the climate debate, which, of course, is of great importance, about carbon balance, and in all of it domestic food production is very important to counteract climate in this respect to reduce carbon dioxide production, as is said. All political groups are expected to gather on these products and support Icelandic agriculture and try to increase the number of Icelandic agricultural production. Therefore, I have never understood this great interest in some political parties in bringing in as much food as possible, but at the same time, they talk about the importance of reducing carbon lines. It's a little paradox. [[The president calls.]] But I think it's very important that we make sure the agriculture gets normal funding.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u164	Mr. President. It may be appropriate for me to conclude this discussion with the private members of Congress today, where I am moving from a legal committee after a six-year stay. But I have to agree with a lot of things that have happened today with my friends. I am very pleased with this financial bill, which reflects the objective of this government. We are trying to cope with the downturn that we now face because of the circumstances we know, both tourism and phlegm, as we have today. That's what we do. by showing the cards about investment in what we like to talk about as wood, some believe that we have paid the price of that word, i.e. Invest in the state's basic services, maybe you should just say it. We do this by reducing the remainder of the business we had previously assumed. This is our role, and we have considered it so that when such an attack occurs, we deal with it with the measures that may be taken. You can find in the budget bill, by inserting a slight input into the system. There are a lot of things that say we're on the right track, and I think it must be when we have historically low interest. There's a lot of stuff that's playing with us, too. With the career and union unions accepting so - called biographies contracts, the government came at a considerable point, that is probably 1 16 billion that these measures cost, or they are accepted by the government to set them up. It has to do with maintaining social and economic stability. Although we place a considerable amount of money, or about 80 billion, in deposit, and that has not been so much for so long, we know that the need is far from satisfied. But we are certainly on the right path. I just want to come into it, in view of the fact that I'm moving around, that I think the legal committees should follow what we've discussed before, i.e. Now, there is experience in the financial work from start to finish with the same government that has done things in the same process that the spring industry might want to do over what it is that we want to do differently. Then I mean that there will be a lot of consultation with the Ministry, with the Committee, even the council, on the other hand, that President had made such a recommendation in some way. I think we should, because there are some conflicting views on the project. It's always getting more productive, slowly, it's not going to happen very fast, but it's going to happen. A much clearer and more fun presentation of the bill and its data is being developed, so it is becoming easier to see behind, as has often been said. On the other hand, we on a financial committee have at times felt that we had a narrow cut and had little to do, and we also need to change our practices so that our council will gain real power in this regard, not just take over as many times have been. I urge you to follow what we've been discussing before. I'd like to come on a few things, but this isn't a long time worth telling about, and it's found in a budget bill. It's been one of our left-green priorities to keep our birthworm system longer and higher. In view of what is being proclaimed here, both are becoming reality, slowly and spiritually. The total budget will be around 20 billion in 2022 compared to 10 billion in 2017 on the prices of each year, so we are doubleing them, and this is extremely important for children's families. Happily, there is an increase in maternity, and this is a source of great pleasure. The parents of 91% of children born in 2015 were paid birthworm from a birth stock, but last year it was 95%, so the ratio may be going as high as possible. It has been discussed a great deal of climate and was done yesterday as well in discussions about the policy debate between the prime minister of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. This must be highly positive in the environment we face that contributions to the environment are increasing now between 2019 and 2020 by 1 billion. It also takes less than half a billion on climate - related projects, so we'll be on top of the government contract. Of course, it's about the climate, but we're also talking about research and monitoring in nature's areas of large sums of money, more agriculture, and so forth. I'd also like to come to high school, for it has been said that there are contributions to decrease, but when the group is considered as a whole, it is not. The budget has increased from 1,732,000 to 1,819,800. each student is increasing. The financial program should continue, so since 2017, we have increased the budget for the high school system by 1.3 billion. Such sums of money cannot be counted as a recession. We need to protect this, for nothing really is more important than education so that we can meet the challenges ahead of us. We don't need to talk about the need for additional strength, we have to keep up. The bill expects to promote trade, occupation, and engineering, so the high school calculus takes more into account than has been, there's been a lot of comments on this. This adds up to 172 million who may have something to say. Then there are many activities that we know and that have recently been in the media. And because there is constant talk about OECD and the comparison at the university then, Ministers in the days showed that it had been sent directly to OECD how they could help us measure those criteria, and it appeared at her meeting with a financial committee, I think, that it would be impossible to do this. We'll see how it goes, but it's at least that. ... intheway. Then there is a rented house that must not be forgotten. This is one of the things in the bill that will bring good results to those who may have mentioned among their hands. It is also part of the biographer agreements that the founding industry will probably take place between 2016 and 2023, with the largest and the largest building effort ever made by the government in the history of Iceland. We are trying to meet those who may not have been able to get a roof over their heads properly. Anyone who's even. to build these apartments and have already done that, the apartment club is a source of saving and others who are in dire need of buildings. Then it's transport. It is now increasing by 4.5 billion each year, an increase of 11%. That's an enormous figure. The largest part goes to work and maintenance, followed by contributions to other transport services and other projects. Then there are budgets linked to a ground-in plan that's coming in on this too. I'd like to ask the panel members to keep an eye on the money on the parish plans, not drop it. There is an appeal that they increase rather than the rest, and we have talked about moving an assignment to the national part of the organization through the strategy. [[The president calls.]] It goes into a community plan, but it also goes directly to the parish plans.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u165	A respectable president. I'm sorry to regret what happened. A senator from a financial committee, a great deal of experience there. Maybe I'd like to sort out a little bit of that experience right now. A senator has sat there for the whole period, before and after the change in public financial matters. Part of my question line here is a little bit to get people's opinion of the situation on this so-called induction. I believe, however, we're quite far from being in place and that we haven't started the right pairing, i.e. In fact, we have not even begun our main concern under official financial laws. It's cost assessment, profit analysis, priorities, etc. Regarding government policy. When I look at the laws on public finance, I see this as a very important thing in order to make certain decisions as to whether our policy is realistic or not and whether it is to take good care of public resources or not. I'd like to have a brief review of the story and the situation now from what it is. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u166	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I agree with him that we would have to have much more advanced data than we have. I told you before we were on the right track. They're opening it up a little bit better. The Ministry of finance is showing more of the cards, making this more graphic, more comfortable for work and all of it. But I can totally say that you get impatient when you're working with dolls that aren't fun reading like the budget is. It is the dozen, and those of us who have been on the committee for perhaps a few years feel that it is not easier unless you know how to turn it off. Still, I can tell the senator, but as he pointed out, I have been on the committee before and after the government law, that I feel that we are moving toward a better arrangement. On a budget board, we went to Sweden and met with both state accountants and legislators and others, and I found this very interesting, many of the information a man took from them. But we always felt too optimistic to think that we could change the snail as an official system in three years. I thought it was really unrealistic, because it's come by day, it doesn't work out. We're getting very slow, but we're making progress. What I concluded earlier was that I feel a bit like we're taking over a project that we're just supposed to do, that the committee doesn't have more space in the frame to work with once she's got company, get some tips and can deal with what it says instead of having been a tradition in Iceland, before and after a change, almost everything's new. [[The president calls.]] In fact, that may not be done now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u167	A respectable president. You've got to cheer up one of the financial agencies for the interactive Web site that we got access to, and everyone has access to, and can look up funding teams and look up, very smart, you get a good comparison between years, really cool. What, then, is the point? A senator on his way out? Now she doesn't have to think about it anymore, into another committee, can suggest any nonsense. What are the next steps in bringing this to us? At least I think the project should show us the induction program. All right, that's not in the law, but at least... showing that this should be done next year, this in the middle of the year, etc., so we have it in front of us. If we were to get some serious action, we would bring it into the public financial laws so that the project would act on it and not violate the promise. You expect much more than is the case today, considering the way the law is, and it is true. You expect certain numbers and data and information that you don't get. It makes you feel rather disappointed and let your hands drop. In many cases, it has occurred to you to see a number, e.g. Regarding land hospital, and one wonder: " Why is this number, not some higher number, or a lower number? And when it comes to business problems, why isn't it a little financing? You never get answers. That is why I pray for the very cost-benefit analysis when new funds enter the box, so to speak, it can be attributed. The cost of covering all the information in the frame is natural, but gradually it is replaced, gradually increasing, and eventually we may receive much better and more beneficial information that would explain why that number is, not any other number.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u168	A respectable president. I can totally agree that if we had installed some scheme called the lead-in plan right away, maybe it wouldn't have been so optimistic that it could work, for the first. I think it might have been wise, and it makes sense to try to look at the situation the way it is. That's why I mentioned a lot of discussions we were talking about, and we've only swaddling, and I think it's time for that to happen. Then we can exchange our views without necessarily discussing the contents, just doing things and doing them. I think something might happen at work because we can work together better. We both mentioned the tissue, and it has been found to be a gradual loss. As we have seen, some of the costs can be measured; others, all of them are harder and estimated. Of course, there are plans. I can say that we should be able to get more basic data and information about it. The Senator mentioned, for example. Hospital. The land hospital itself, as it has come along, I don't remember whether it was last year or meeting earlier, a fairly detailed analysis so that the hospital itself does so, he knows what it's based on. In itself, his comments can be the expense point. But then there's the benefit analysis, that's what you put your finger in the air. We can't exactly consider everything, but we can start, I agree with it, we can start with some sort of measurement, because we say that this is what we want, and the health minister does it considerably in his work. [[The president calls.]] She says: We're buying health care, and we want her to be that way, not somehow different, and we want it out of her instead of something else, so she knows what she's getting for the money. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Of course, this may call for a profit analysis or a measurement or something like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-09-12-3.u169	A respectable president. Toward the end of this discussion, I want to express my appreciation for the arrangement set here. I realize that all the leaders of the class have found this to be a short time, like myself. It's a little odd that when the seminars assume that, under normal circumstances, you will have 30 minutes to present a bill, large or small, but when one of the biggest cases comes, which is the financial bill itself, time cut down half, or down 15 minutes for a chronicist, and the class spokes and others will have ten minutes. Still, this discussion has been a good grip, and it may have been accomplished by this arrangement, which is the same thing last year, to have only a sharper exchange of opinions. None of us find any special pleasure in listening to half - hour talks. Not what I miss in this. Nevertheless, I wanted to mention that I feel that I have been a fine flow in the discussion, and many benefits have been made. For me, it is very evident in the large context of things that now it is useful for us to have prepared for less growth in the economy. Some years ago, I remember having been in the car on the way home from work or on my way to work listening to radio programs that said: "Well, it's a job to do, why is the government stressing the importance of 30 billion dollars? Why is there an urgent need to give up much of the money? It may be showing up now, and it is a lesson that we need to take to the future that humans will not calm down if they set the budget when it works well that they do not have expenses when slowing down. It is as follows, on the basis of the national interest we have to play with - or from playing, I should rather say - that we are all on our budget without going to a corner. It is remarkable that we have never before in the 20 - year history, which will be considered in the financial section of the bill, with an initial equation at the same time that economic growth is 1.5% or less. In this respect, we have been working to benefit by the way the Parliament has provided financial resources in recent years. We have obviously dropped debt, and we benefit from the benefits of our global growth environment right now, short since we borrowed foreign loans at 5.5% interest, we now pay 0.1%. 0.1 to 5.5 a few years ago. Clearly, lower interest rates have contributed to the growth of space in other ways. At times, we say that we would rather place money on the welfare rather than on the increase, and we have indeed been doing so. The financial expenditures that have taken on the most important increase are health and welfare issues since 2017, and the priorities of these two segregations, these areas, are very much higher than others. Your health has taken approximately 35% of the increase from 2017 when we look at this budget in comparison. We are talking about 35% of an increase of 110 billion a year. These are enormous sums of money, but they are useful in the community in order to serve more effectively. I hope no one takes that shit away, even though I mention that there's a big difference between today's discussion when it comes to a budget bill and the one that wasn't years ago when, for example, it happened. Some weeks later, the director of the Land Hospital said that he would not rely on him to work in this situation, as it happened, or that there were big words in the Senate that the number of institutions and key services to the State's responsibilities were incalculable. What a difference there is in the discussion today compared with what was just a few years ago in this regard! Just as a review helped to deal with that discussion back then. We received more favorable economic forecasts, and we increased our expenses in line with the more allowable economic forecasts in the autumn. As far as I can remember, we care for the council for up to 20 billion winters from the contributions of the budget bill until the budget was taken care of. So that is not long ago. In an economic sense, however, it has somehow become overexcited for a long time. We're about to get somewhere else on this. This does not change the fact that there are many enormous solutions to the council and that the debate today shows that we have the greatest ambition to do this well. There have been indications that a person wants to be more supportive, better data, better planning, to justify the amount of expenses being proposed. Similarly, there has been a view in the discussion that priorities are not quite correct, that we should have a higher proportion of investment spending. I refer to the context of the economic exchange of bills listed in the budget bill. There is good reason to believe that in the present situation, we should give even greater attention to investing in infrastructures that will be of longer use. So it could continue to be viewed as a number of opinions that have been taken up and done today, but I believe that we are now well in the countryside to handle all these matters. We, like the last few years in a relatively early fall, come forward with budgetaries and income arrangements as well. The committee is now considering these matters. The Ministry of Economics will strive to provide answers and information, as it will be called, and I wish the Commission a good success in this work, offer our powers, and ask for good cooperation with the committee.
