ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u1	Borist has received a letter from a marine economist and agri-gri-gri-gritary to provide a written answer for a suitual query. 258, on the increase in the export of unsurpassed fish, from the Sigurður of Páll Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u2	A respectable president. The U.S. Army case has greatly followed. A high - quality minister and minister of justice have claimed, a special law enforcement agency on corruption has begun an investigation and arrested marine emissary, and published that all research data indicate that there has been a huge amount of bribes, money laundering, tax fraud, and corruption. They enjoy informers who are protected by special laws on exposure protection in order to make it easier for people who know and have even participated in criminal activities to step forward and help the authorities inform crime and corruption. In fact, this case is thought to be the largest corruption case ever to come into the history of corruption police, which is viewed as very serious. I'm not here talking about Iceland, a respectable president, but of Namibia, some of whom want to be overworked as immature and uncivilized developing countries. However, Namibia is light years ahead of us Icelanders in legal matters and establishive defenses against political corruption, as indicated by my account here. In contrast with us, Namibia has long ago legally protected the informants and established an organization that specializes in the investigation of vices. Here at home, we've seen that year after year the informant protection is being pushed off the table on the council for vague reasons. Now, or perhaps not so vague as to the comments of the Association of Professionals, which are found in the current bill. Prime Ministers go way too far and increase the likelihood of misuse of employees who want to get their revenge on former employers. The same organization that didn't tell us so long ago in the review of the same Minister on the registration of interestors or lesbians that in this country there is no record of corruption, nor by permission of a president: It is not customary for corruption to be evident in the fact that the strong special interest stakeholders can control governments and influence them by their reaction to their individual decisions. At least. There is also no need to establish a special issue of defense against corruption, in contrast to our role models in Namibia, and our government is not even able to finance our surveillance agencies properly. [[The president calls.]] President. I just wanted to come up here to say that I think we should be exemplary in corruption instead of speaking the country down like some of them. Councilmen and the highest. Councillors in this hall have made a mistake. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u3	A respectable president. This morning, there was a number of foot and footprints in the Environmental and Transport Committee because of a suspected leak from the Committee on a report that the committee received last week's presentation. The committee noted that despite its failure to submit to a minister, the media had dealt accurately with the subject of the report. Accusations ran back and forth, and alleged leaking asked to step forward and acknowledge their responsibilities. So when the report was presented to the committee, it was requested for the beliefs, such as good and blessed, until the report was completed and delivered. But when it comes to checking and asking who got the report, it seems that the report has gone quite widely in the past month or so. But what caught my attention on this matter is different, i.e. what people expect about religion at the council, what individual representatives of the public have expectations about the confidence of other representatives of the public about their work and their work. True religious beliefs are justified in various cases, and the rules for committee meetings are clear, not to be directly quoted who said what. Not much, however, if nothing is meant to be committed to the council because of what we do, people we work for, people we look at evidence, people we make decisions for. The people here outside the Council will be allowed to see the data we base our decisions on unless they protect national security, privacy, or similar. We keep notes from council hearings too closed, they're to be published in public. Much too much testimony is tied to the verbal transfer and the ability of the committees to quote it in a material way. We need more transparency and confidence, for confidentiality creates an environment of secret thinking and corruption. Usually, we need to have an open meeting for the committees of the Generals. The reason is that they don't have the courage to open up. There's evidence that came up at this morning's meeting with the Committee. But do people not understand where that fear comes from? You see, we need to tackle the problem, not put on a confidence patch to protect the violence. People should not hold back from telling the truth and rights before the committees of the Generals. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u4	A respectable president. I'm gonna use this short time to talk about the people who come to me, the people who cry and ask me for help. I would like to use this brief moment to talk about the woman who lives in Breiðholti, stooped to illness, and was returning home in five days' time at the Land Hospital of ◯ University Hospital. She's alone, she has no family, she has no relatives, she has no friends. She had no food, no refrigerator. It's more than just tears that we're going to talk about an abundance of Iceland's community. Sunday is the first Sunday Sunday of Adventist - another Christmas and always as anxious for so many. I think a sad, respectable president, how the government manages to paint society so that here... butter would drop out of every straw compared to what I see every day around poor people, people who are asking for help. How can we be sure that after that, we will be walking through 3rd? Funds without any consideration of the changes we have made and the good will we have suggested to meet our smallest brothers and sisters. But it is as I have been since I entered this high public speaker, the highest speaker of the nation, for the good of those who are being kept under hunger, anxiety, and weeping. They're in pain. The government that is out of sight does nothing to help these people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u5	A respectable president. Two weeks ago, the trigger show was shown that was an amazing and disgusting history of corruption, bribes, and money bullshit. We're all shocked. We got angry and sad, it's all a normal reaction, and of course we all insist that the matter is investigated by the competent authorities, and by case, and judged. I think it's important that we respect the government's tribunals and leave it to the local authorities to investigate and judge the case. It is a vital lesson that we should have learned, not to make this hall a judicial hearing. It's not long since we covered the payoffs and the maximum punishment for the violation of domestic or foreign labor, which allowed the penalty to weigh from four years to five. This was done in the past. paritaprevir Sigríður Á. Andersen of the Ministry of Justice, and I have to admit that I felt that this conversation was absurd, but unfortunately it is not. However, let us not lose sight of the fact that we are in the midst of a world full of corruption. Of course not, but we should respond to this news. We need to make sure, as we have done, that until good people have the resources they need to investigate. The government has taken action to increase confidence in Icelandic employment. The UN Food and Agriculture Organization will be consulted but will be evaluated for the commercial practices of fishing and business ventures, including developing countries. This will require increasing transparency in the operation of unscheduled companies and large marine resources. Bribes and corruption are a global problem that must be eradicated. Iceland is to participate in the full-time project, and it is completely unacceptable, indeed illegal, that the Icelandic company is involved in it. These suggestions must be investigated into the basement, charged, and judged in accordance with the law. It is simply and will not be the case when an Icelandic company violates laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u6	Mr. President. Yesterday, the UN's International Day for Sexual Violence was an international day. The day marks the beginning of a 16 - day campaign against the sexual violence that the UN Women worldwide sees. I spread out on the UN Women's parade for the occasion, which was like always a very beautiful event. There, people gathered in the cold and the dark to show solidarity with victims of violence. Sadly, one third of all women and girls in the world are exposed to physical or sexual violence in their lives. It's statistics that you don't get used to, and it's always as striking. According to UN sources, a large proportion of fractures are not reported, both because in many societies, they are not violated by penalties and because they involve shames not all are willing to reveal. Violence also has a variety of manifestations, but whether it is sexual abuse, power imbalances in workplaces, or the abuse of violent men in order to attach women to violent relationships, all manifestations of violence are indiscriminate. In the United States, the various spiritual awakenings have made us here openly talk about the shame. The discussion in society over the last few years has included: has led to bringing shame to the homes of people who have shamed them for many decades. Such progress is invaluable if, like sexual violence, eradicates social ills. The silence is one of the most powerful weapons of violence. Despite all these improvements in our homes, however, we must never forget our brothers and sisters who are suffering violence, some of whom are daily. We must not lose our sense of urgency.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u7	Mr. President. It has sometimes been stated here in this Assembly Hall and elsewhere, when discussing agricultural production in Iceland, that people constantly testify to the success of vegetables. It's all right with the vegetables, customs were just knocked down, everything's going well. Lately, however, the share of Icelandic vegetables has been found to have dropped dramatically. There is more than 7,000 tons in production in nine years. And why would that be? I believe that this is because vegetarians were tagged on a shelf where they were supposed to produce only three different species. In doing so, they were locked up in grapples, tomatoes, and peppers, with high respect for their vegetables, instead of being encouraged to increase production, that is, the variety of productions. Of course, nothing has been done to fix electrical prices for this production. As far as I know, a kilowatt of vegetable electricity is even less expensive in Holland than in this country, however it may be. I wanted to come up here to encourage vegan farmers. I think this is about time for guts. I think, for example. that it would be a check to see if they can't get wind mills by the greenhouses so that they don't depend on the superpowers of Legislation and their partners. Then, too, innovations must be opened. I'd like to direct the audience to the vegetarian prayer class and show them a chance. So it is with interest that there is a shortage of vanillas in the world today, and a gram of vanilla costs a total of 50 to 660 American cents on the plant, i.e. That's 5,5,66,000 pounds. There is a possibility that humans should take, and there are others. You need to keep your eyes open and develop the production.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u8	Mr. President. The work of the Parliament involves the history of the Council of Arctic and others dealing with northern issues. The chairmans of the Parliamentary Committee on the Northern Areas meet at least three times in the year, which is between every Parliamentary conference on the north. At these meetings, the conference itself, which is held every other year, is prepared for its declaration. The declaration is then sent to the Council of Arctic and to the eight states, as well as to the European Parliament. The Senate committee of each of the eight states explains the declaration in its annual report to the council. A third meeting of the council was held in pieces this November, and it was mainly a matter of time before the Russians made much more of an open view of climate change and increased environmental effort in their Arctic regions. In fact, they needed representatives of the United States and Canada, but they are beginning to secure the presence of the U.S. senators at all meetings involved in the Northern Parliament work. At the same time, this meeting was held by a two - day conference of the Norwegian dimension, or the ◯Northern Dimtion, to which the two - day conference of the Norwegian dimension was held. This is the European Union's cooperative site and instrument, i.e. Dana, Greenland, Sweden, Find and then Russia, Iceland and the Norwegians. The Barent Seas and the Baltic Sea are extremely heavy, and thus countries are included in the Baltic Sea as well as in the picture. The Barents area is interesting because there is a very open border and an unusual open communication between the nations, i.e. Norwegians and Russians. Also important is the cooperation between the EU and the Russians, e.g. has helped in recent development of a complete irrigation system in St. Petersburg and the use of radioactive waste from a nuclear - powered ship that had leaked ovens. There is also a good deal of work between the North and the Russian population in combating the risk of bacterial infection that is resistant to antibiotics. The NV declared that for the first time there was a clear link between the climatic activities of the northern business and that the percentage of the Paris Convention was adopted with the full approval of everyone at the table. That's a really good news.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u9	A respectable president. To see poor people fighting every day against the inhuman obstacles and violations of the income of people who face it every day, weeks, months, and years after year is a disgrace to us. How hard governments after governments are ready to kick financially into sick and injured people is ridiculous. The effect of poverty on life expectancy shows that poor people live much less than they do, and the difference between five and seven years and the gap increases. Sick people do not go to doctors because they cannot afford to do so. They do not solve all their drugs because they cannot afford them and too many of their groups do not have housing or clothing, much less for food. The number of poor people who seek medical care is large, since they cannot afford animal studies. How many people can't afford to pay for drugs at the start of a new drug pay period? Our society is a disgrace to the fact that people are so poor in the government that they cannot seek medical help because of lack of money, much less if the poor die because of illness, diseases that can easily be prevented. Are there some who have died of disease that would have been easy to cure, and because of poverty? For my part, it is a serious matter if some are unable to seek medical help because of poverty. I'm sorry, I've been aware of this because sick older citizens and disability have recently told me that they can't afford medical care, e.g. due to laboratory or drug exposure. They are not concerned about poverty because of Christmas, not about material goods, no, but about whether they can save their lives because they can't afford medical care or drugs in Iceland today. I refer to the shame this brings to the present government. Their responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u10	A respectable president. The fourth industrial revolution, electronic management, telecommunications, and telecommunications give us amazing tools and opportunities to reorganize much of the community. Let's use them right, so they don't turn into their rebellious side and turn things upside down. We often need to ask ourselves, " How can I take advantage of the opportunities of long - term work in order to strengthen my work where there is no need for people in close - time service, but there is still a need for close - up service? ' This must be done consciously. With conscious management, electronic administration and telecommunication can be used to distribute jobs across the country, to promote operating stations, to promote entire institutions and systems. Some examples: There is no need for a full - time nurse, and employment ratios were gradually cut down until no one was able to do the work. The approach has now been reversed. A full - time job is available, and a nurse does certain jobs, using technology that was once done elsewhere. As soon as this was done, a qualified individual qualified. The establishment of an electronic administration by the county must also promote national services, including the city of Reykjavík. Tasks that do not require close contact with citizens between work stations are required. Parts of the work in special knowledge of specific matters can help to reduce tasks at work stations where there is a great need for service and payment. Electric administration needs to be enhanced. To ensure the opportunity for my powerful teachers to be in the full - time ministry and the school system to have access to knowledge, a distant school needs to be strengthened. This is what the Ministry of Education needs to consider. It is not natural that most of the schools or the ever - increasing educational centres have the power to develop telecommunications, on the contrary. We must use the technology to strengthen the weak points and thus strengthen the whole.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u11	V.E.G. President. On 16 October, a signed petition for the seamen's pension for the social and child - care minister, which the minister answered yesterday. Among other things, many fishermen were asked how many were using the right to take a pension pension from 60 to sixty - 67 years of age. In answer to a minister, it was stated that the requirement for the administration of a pension in the 50's was 25 years or more. It is proper to note that there are many ways that the rights of pensions can be involved. Sadly, many fishermen do not always have great rights in pension funds. I expected this group to be quite large, but in answer to a minister, it said that only 29 people would receive pensions from a insurance agency. In order to apply for pension, they need to submit copies of tax returns, income schemes, and a record of legal days at sea. A walking agency is holding a cover to these data, but some cases have to be called for information on the registration of the registereds to those responsible for the registration prior to the Day of the Agency. V.E.G. President. This is an enormous interest. The fishing work is physically difficult and weare. A major understanding is that seamen's working life may be shorter than most others. Seamen have great interests that they use their rights and interests, and the government should, of course, provide such information. Getting data and guidance can be difficult, and it needs to be available. The sailors certainly deserve it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u12	A respectable president. Yesterday, there was a debate about the new jungle and its carbon binding in this hall. It was appropriate to observe this discussion during my first meeting, where I originally took part in politics to support my grandmother and the names of the battle for Icelandic nature. Its battle began more than half a century ago, and it is still hardly visible to land. The country's greenhouse is very low, and satellite images reveal that it has not changed much since the turn of the century. When we value carbon binding because of newly cultured forests, it is interesting to examine what the land itself breathes. It is one thing to bind and another to stop emissions, but our largest emissions of carbon dioxide are land itself. A 2016 report by Jón Guðmundsson reports that net emissions from the Icelandic Mothers could take up to 38 million tons of carbon dioxide per year, whereas, in 2017, the entire Icelandic economy released an estimated 4.7 million tons. The only way to stop breaking free and bind the land is to heal and to do so requires peace. We cannot cope with fire power and weather swings, but we can control bait. We need to give the country a chance to heal where it is bad, but that reversal and self - abuse of forests will never be a realistic reality when there is a top priority in our land use. A respectable president. We are the world's leaders in responsible use of the resources of the sea, but when it comes to the use of vegetation, we are not exemplary. We woke up fish stocks and guided their use, but when it comes to national monitoring and control, we lack perspective and resources. In the 2014 OECD report, we are severely criticized for our lack of research and monitoring. Soil destruction is said to be a major problem in Iceland, including Because of overexploitation, and agri-environment development, the problem is fueled by the problem. We're trapped in the habit and we're afraid of change, but I quote the source of encouragement that was always guided by our grandmother's charm: We have the obligation to bring back the land's vegetation to a better condition than we did. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u13	A respectable president. Today, there will be a bill from the Department of Social Affairs on Childhood and Parentorof, which is in accordance with the Government Treaty and biographies contracts of a general labour market from spring. It is taking an important step toward a 12 - month maternity clinic, which will be completed in 2021. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] This is in accordance with the proposals of a future policy group in birthworm cases that returned in March 2016 their proposals for the then social and housing minister. It is not surprising that this is now being carried out on the head of the Ministry. The panel has taken a big step in improving parental rights, and it was Páll Pétursson, the then social minister, who made it legal in 2001 that fathers also have the right to take their parents'rights. The child's right to associate with both parents in the first month of his life was an important step. In the joint review of a professor of social security and social studies at Iceland's University for the bill comes in, among other things. ... tothe prolongation of the rights of parents to birth coded in the bill is a turning point for benefit to families in the interest of children and parents alike. In addition, many studies among parents show that the parents'own right to birthworm is particularly important when families do not share legal households, while a large portion of fathers do not share legal households with their children use an independent right to birthworm. A respectable president. Also, the elongation of the maternity diet fills much of the gap between parents completing their maternity vacations and until they can get their children to preschool, since in many parts of the country, their rural society has begun to volunteer for high school space as long as 12 months of age.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u14	Mr. President. I would like to discuss one part of the Parliament's work, which is a variety of dealings with the administrations, especially with the application of queries and reports for Ministers. So that I was a 1st importer, along with 12 other delegates at the original request to the Foreign Minister for a report on Iceland's benefits and failures to the European Economic Convention and the impact the contract has had on the country. The request was accepted at the Council in three seasons, first in the spring of 2018 and then twice. The minister set up a three - member team, which has provided a report that is very helpful, but in October 14, I discussed it in the October 14 issue of this magazine. Interestingly, in a letter given by the Minister to the staff, the request is ousted and submitted to the group to make a summary of and assess the benefits that Iceland has gained from the participation in the EEA work programme and the main solutions established by the government in the implementation of the EEA Convention. Nothing about the pros and cons, Mr. President, which is a key factor in your request. The report, of course, shows that it is written according to the prescription of a minister in a letter of communication. Of course, this raises the question, Has the Minister really answered the request? It may also be asked if it is customary for a minister to have a letter of application. On that occasion, I allow myself to ask for it. The prime committee that it makes an assessment of how common ministers are to the same extent as this is from the subject of reporting. Whatever the outcome may be, it may be remarkable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u15	Mr. President. The government decided last week to take certain measures to increase confidence in Icelandic employment, as it was called. Even there was a number of them. it would be particularly important to consider financing a local district attorney in connection with the Samher case and that the tax authorities would be able to temporarily increase human resources for immediate and successful purposes. I have no doubt that the prosecution's staff is independent of their jobs. However, it is important to ensure that the situation is not that when large issues arise that require special effort, the government's special well - being is needed in order to obtain money. Our legal system, inquisitors, and inquisitors, must be financed to respond to whatever comes first, without being subject to government, welfare, and the events of other political opinions. Today's morning paper, in which the former prime minister is editor, has, for example, an editor. Refer to the Samherjan case on one hand as a distant case related to the ◯ cod or decks, as if standing below from Namibia - and as an old-day setup of the VOLV macros ◯. Who knows but the former prime minister and former head of the Independence Party have brothers here at the council at least About this case? It is simply a result of government growth and financial decisions related to research on individual matters. The prosecution's independence is subject to such a approach. This must be the goal of institutions in general who saw the potential to care for these matters. At the General Assembly yesterday, Dr. Bjarni Benediktsson made this statement that this sect should not be approached, so that individual cases are subject to political goodwill or political opinions. I agree fully with that statement. Sadly, the words of the secretary of finance are followed by a completely different operation by the government because the system offers no more than the availability of governments when specific and extensive matters arise. [[The president calls.]] These stakeholders must have the authority to enter the projects that arise without having to rely on the provision of special funds, especially when major and complex research is provided that is important to our community, regardless of government opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u16	A respectable president. This is why I would like to discuss the activities of the council. Later today, if the contract permits, it will be the highest. The social and child-regional minister recommends for a bill to legalize a change in the law of birth and parentoroft, a bill that has been waiting for since the signing of biographies in spring. Perhaps we should talk about a bill that has been waiting for ever since the government wrote in its government covenant that it would extend its birth lagoon? We are happy that the government will fulfill its word to extend the food Ordinary, but I must say that I regret that this bill, this important matter, is delivered just under the month of November/December when it comes to the election's Christmas break. As everyone knows, the matter of Congress, whether in the approval of all people or not, goes to the general public and the economist, and is accustomed to a three - week review process. If this bill is to be treated as necessary as necessary, it comes from a narrative when the council begins its Christmas break. These are practices that the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, the government of the forward movement, the Independence Party and the Left Green, welcomes the Allied Assembly of Iceland. This bill is about all future parents and all the future children of Iceland and we're supposed to do it with our hand pies in a single or two weeks' crisis. [[The president calls.]] I don't think it's entirely acceptable, Mr. President, and I expect the President to discuss with the government a business venture. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u17	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a more part of the legal committee for the 3rd Environment. about a bill for budgeting before 2020. The committee has discussed the matter again after the second issue. ... tohavea meeting with a representative of the Department of Economics and Economics. The most technical modifications of the majority of segments are, i.e. Correction of economic exchanges of pay and prices, changes to market agencies, and corrections between individual causes and issues. Only two modifications have been made that impact on recovery at Article 1. budget, total amount 102.6 billion. K. which lead to less survival than after the 2nd. The bill. There is an increase of 82.6 billion on one hand. K. Based on the price of a further agreement between Church and State, a temporary 20 million is granted. K. to strengthen the sector of the Vigidian Institute, international centres of languages and cultures, which work within the context of the establishment of Vigdís Finnbogóttir in foreign languages. The contractual contribution of the State was temporary to three years and will fall within the next year. The majority of the contracts expect to be renewed, and from now on annual contributions will be expected within the financial borders of Iceland's University. In addition to the contract contracting of the state, the Agency has gained a number of international and domestic grants. Changes in the income-side are found on the deck. 539. A total of 1,45.6 million are affected. K. vs. corresponding reductions in budgets of the charge panel due to altered production of donations to the National Church. This change, therefore, has no effect on the survival of the Kingdom Fund. In addition, there is one intermediate on the income side where plan 165.1 billion. K. The category of environmental legislation is modified, shifted by consumption and permit taxes on the public consumption and permit fees. This is the case, a respected president, a changed category. Subsidual changes in the remuneration side result in an increase of 623.7 billion in spending outlets. K. The most direct increase associated with the marketing rent payment of 521.1 billion. K. These expenditures are classified as internal transactions according to the economic standard and therefore do not affect the contribution of the State Fund. Another reason is a remuneration of 82.6 billion weighing. K. to increase with a discussion of 2nd, there was no calculation of prices due to an additional contract between Church and Church and 20 million. K. a donation to the Vigdicular Institute. As opposed to a reduction of 1,45.6 billion. K. in connection with the altered production of contributions to the National Church. The corresponding change is made on the income side and therefore has no effect on the survival of a Kingdom fund. Taking into account the correcting of the individual business ventures due to market deposit, costs are reduced by 43 million. K. The number of affected incomes is 1,5.6 billion. K. As a result, a total of 102.6 billion. K., as I explained, of what was expected at 2nd. about the bill. In addition, two changes are proposed at 6. The bill, and I'll lead them to threshing. 540, team 7,26, who is authorized to bring in the internal rent prices made under Kingdom ownership, the rent price of similar property is in the same market area as after the incident in preparing for the change in budgets for this. However, it is section 7.27, authorized to negotiate with owners of ID on the implementation of holdings of the union to the state. The marketing accounts for government property were implemented into the budgets of this year and in accordance with Article 52. it's a government law. There's a total of 521.1 million. K. Since the University of Akureyri's property and part of the Council's property are now paying rent on markets, and there is a warrant that the government can give them its money to the state funds. According to modified accounts, property is now to be deemed and decried at the time of their extensions. By taking up internal rents in government activities that reflect the value of that property, there is an increase in financial transparency to government housing. These changes are drawing out the real cost of public service. Depending on whether the work is being done in a statehouse or a home owned by a private agency, the organization is a factor in this effort. Governments will be improved in their current and planned rent payments without affecting the survival of the State Fund or changing the scope of the Kingdom accounts. In this phase, the real estate of the University of Akureyri, as well as real estate at the Management Board, is being moved to State. Most of the proposed changes are economic transfers, i.e. economic exchange will pay or modify the category of income. Government expenditures are set up in management budgets, management initiatives, capital contributions and investment contributions according to international economy standards. Suggested changes in the classification not resulting in changes in total cost are made. An example of this is 2,382.9 million. K. In accordance with the Agency's agreement with Iceland's Secret Bank, a contribution to the FEC changed to some 2,782.9 million. K. a contribution to the now proposed national church as a management tool. Business contributions refer to contributions made by the state's funds to individuals or non - state organizations without the purchase of services. The purpose of the foreign service is to use 200 million. K. to purchase equipment for the Ministry Directorates and emissary emissaries from abroad and is proposed to make a total of 200 million. K. ... ofexploitationofaninvestment warrant. There is a suggestion to temporarily transfer 150 million. K. contributes to the development of the Marine Research Institute. The bill expected 280 million. K. a contribution to strengthening basic marine and food research research research research studies and is a part of the further implementation of this provision. At the same time, contributions in the fishing industry are reduced by the same amount. A total of 14 other suggestions are made that are classified as changing the economic exchange rate and do not change the total budget according to Article 1. The bill. The majority of this calls to mind that he does not feel the need to contribute additionally to those who work to secure an effective IRS. The bill already expects 200 billion. K. an increase in the office of the head of the state tax due to an increase in tax control, which will be implemented by strengthening both the surveillance fields, the analysis teams and the office's valid registration check-ups. In addition, it refers to the actions of the government, which was announced November 15th. &lt; 0.001a &lt; 0.001a &gt; &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.001, &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.001, &lt; 0.001, &lt; 0.001, &lt; 0.001, &lt; 0.001, &lt; 0.0001 &lt; 0.001, &lt; 0.001. the development of fiscal tax collection legislation and the increase in information exchange agreements with other countries. Since 2017, contributions to the national taxpayer have been increased to an absolute value of some 450 million. K. which is less than 14%. In addition, it is noted that the media reserve is up to 77.4 billion. K. During the next year, it can be used to promote tax control even more if necessary. It should be noted, then, that the general reserve of this year has not yet been fully used and the scope for handling expenses within the year. According to Section 28. a law on government finance shall be within two weeks of the approval of budgets at the General Assembly of the Council of America's Council of Auditors in accordance with the changes made by the General Assembly on the bill. The minister shall present an updated copy for a financial committee. The majority suggest 10 million. K. will be transferred to the team due to support the development of a general sports sponsor, taking into account the fact that three national conventions will be next year and will be strengthened for the development of national conventions should be taken into account. In addition, more part contributes to 50 million. K. will be transfered by the New Parliament's budget to the International Assembly Hall of Churches within the same reference book's budget to address the costs of setting up elevators in Thorshamri. A member of the General Assembly is in a house in Thorshamri, where there has been no access for the disabled because there is no elevator in the house. The building and elevator installation are under way and the government is in charge of the work for the Council. Except for the economic and market changes, this is suggested to a number of cross-overs where changes have been identified as being proposed for 2nd. the bill is more relevant in other joints, and further information is provided in the closing section of the Committee opinion. I refer, a respectable president, to the committee's opinion for further explanation. According to this, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed on by the changes I have made and will be further explained by the committee's list of members, and the proposal for special Parliaments is made. Under the order of the centuries. Councilmen: Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Páll Magnússon, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, and Þóra Árnadóttir Auradótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u18	A respectable president. I have one thing on my mind that came up just before the end of the 2nd. and more of the budget is being met by financiers, i.e. ... witha secretary. A greater proportion preached to a minister who was held in the committee field without having a share in these meetings and received information from a minister and asked a minister for details on the details of his language field. I'd like to know, sir, a respectable president, whether the chairman considers it a little unfortunate and how it actually fits the separation of the legislature authority and the executive's authority that a meeting between the European Commission and the legislature can be made suitable. [[The president calls.]] Why do some members of Parliament find greater access to stewards than do others?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u19	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question, or if there had been any special meetings, was involved. There were no formal meetings. First, I'd like to say that all the business items, financial requests and business items that come into the budget are all registered by the Committee and sent on to the minister where the responsibility lies. Then we call out for special answers to these matters from our councils. We were calling primarily for where it was in the Ministry, how it would be with them, because we did not receive formal answers to all those matters. But there were no formal meetings. I can bring it back in in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u20	A respectable president. There is a formal visit to the council on the legal authority here, and where it is to be done, it is now under the law on public finances, but it is another way. The financier may send out tips there for the person who sent in the request and to the local Ministry. That's very formal. Here's a bill for the budget, it's all very formal. From what I heard in answer to the highest. Since the head of the budget board is suddenly not formal, when more of the legal committee is given a minister to meet him at the General Committee to explain what happened to these requests and the memory items are not allowed to come there or ask more questions about the mail messages that go there between the Commission and the legislature. A law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland defines formal and informal communication which the Minister shall record. [[The president calls.]] That's very clear. I don't see how you can hide behind the fact that this is informal, just not at all. [[The president calls.]] The biggest case of every year is here for the council, and there can be nothing informal in dealing with recruitment and legal committees in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u21	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For the question is the Björn of Gunnarsson's Leví. I reiterate that there were no formal meetings. It's perfectly normal for us to have conversations with our Minister, but there were no formal meetings. If the meeting had been formal, they would have been with the whole committee, that's just the way it is. I don't know exactly what to do. A senator is about to go in this matter and can't answer any other question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u22	Mr. President. We had a few words at a Senate Hall yesterday about additional sources of money because of the so - called Samherjas, especially the tax investigator and the district attorney. It stated, without further details how this was done, that there was sufficient room for financial resources and even a reserve. I was found to be quite vague in response to a minister, but today we find that the district attorney has requested permission to hire six employees from the start of the next year and even two more that could mean that the total pay of the office will grow by about 101⁄215% per year. It's quite a bit different, and I suppose that there's quite a bit more than the space that a special reserve there would cover. So I ask. The chairman of a financial committee: Has he received adequate explanations from the secretary of finance to meet these expenses so that they are included in the law on public financial matters? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u23	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for the question. First, regarding the business involved in the local district attorney's office, we have a total budget of over 1 billion. It is a very powerful organization with 51 employees and various subjects on it. I can very quickly answer that there has not been a formal hearing or a petition for some particular matter. We have a very aggressive organization that is able to cope with many different and complex issues. Besides, we have an office in tax research that has a lot of financial resources. Hv. A senator also introduced a reserve, but it is not a reserve associated with these local district attorney classes. [[The president calls.]] However, it is at the tax office, 77 million.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u24	Mr. President. That's exactly why I'm asking. Yesterday, in a Senate hall, it was claimed that there was enough room for this to be met, but there is just no reserve to meet a request that has already come from this office, that the staff will be enlarged without a particular decision on what projects. Between the lines, it can be read that it is not even connected to the Union case that the government has declared that enough funding is being spent. However, it has not taken any steps to make arrangements for this today financial discussion. I have to admit, I don't think it's a very good thing that it just isn't done raising the financial resources of this office. In addition to the more than 50 employees there, there are six or eight other employees. It is a significant increase in the activity of the office and would be very normal to have it completed at the Senate Hall, which was rejected by the majority. That is why I ask again: Has the chairman of the legal committee been given satisfying answers to how the government intends to meet these challenges? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u25	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Let us bear in mind that such differing organizations are very well - off and with vast financial resources. If we take three offices, the local district attorney's office, the tax president and the tax investigator, we are talking about over 5 billion sources into the next year to work on many different issues. [[Up front.]] That's 307 employees. These are highly knowledgeable institutions, and they deal with many different issues. I suppose they can, in agreement with their minister on where the responsibility of the seminars lies, work out the matters that enter within the budgets they are required for next year. Hv. A senator entered a matter, and it's in the early stages.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u26	But the request...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u27	Then it's just the Minister working it out with his organization, that's it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u28	Mr. President. I'm in a similar area because it's important. The largest part of the Committee is directly referred to the use of general reserves to meet the need for surveillance institutions for the Union case, but under law the use of that fund depends on strict conditions and directives should be interpreted narrowly. It says it's a report. That, in fact, is what the Bible says. that expenses need to be unpredictable, and that is not prior to 2020. There is no surprise that next year's Samherja case will have to be investigated. In addition, spending under law must be made so that it is not met in any other way, as the law says. This is not fulfilled either, for we still have open funds that we are discussing here today. If it is to be used, the expenses must also be unexpected, which, according to the law, are not in this case in view of the next year. I would also like to remind the chairman of the budgetary funds for the district attorney is empty for 2019 and 2020. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Does this mean, then, that the U.S. district attorney does not come to the U.S. attorney for the United States? [[The president calls.]] How's it going, man? A senator or a judge who puts money on the district attorney's side?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u29	Hv. Councilmen are asked to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u30	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question and the answer. Hv. A senator was well - versed in public financial laws and the article on the general reserve. That's right. This points to the leading list of parts to the general reserve and what is included in the general reserve this year, and there's a big difference, and there's a problem. A senator, though he reads the law many times, there is a difference this year. This year it is unpredictable, inevitable, and temporary. It's just that way. We're not talking about 2020. It's not in the committee's opinion. You need to be right. There's a big difference, though we read the laws over and over again. It's not true that the mercenary's reserve is empty. There's no reserve, it's just a minister's choice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u31	Mr. President. If there's no reserve, the reserve's empty. [[Up front.]] That's for sure. We're talking about 2020, we're looking over there. So I don't know what's going on. A senator intends to ensure that we can finance, for example. The district attorney when he is not prepared to support the Community's transition to place money in the district attorney's district attorney, not prepared to make changes for himself to secure funding for the district attorney, and not to ensure some of the local legal reserves involved in the district attorney's case. Then he needs to grab the general reserve, and that's not possible and he knows why. Senator. I don't understand why the chairman of a financial committee and the candidate would like to accept that one man, the head of the Independence Party, will determine how much research agents of the United Nations will receive. Why can't we make that decision here? We're accepting a new proposal between discussions about putting money at the Vigdicular Institute, in snow mist, in Vienna, in Iceland's Air Force. Why can't we make sure that something goes to the district attorney and the tax investigator? I just don't understand this political bitch, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u32	V.E.G. President. It is very important that we have powerful and polluted institutions. Because of what? A senator introduced a tax investigator: If we take office, government taxpayer and tax investigator and district attorney, we all have the authority of over 5 billion to deal with different issues. Here we find some issue in the media as a matter of course. A senator would like to refer to and demand - speaking of public financial laws - that we are going to push out bills of institutions for some particular issue in the media. That would be the first time we were dancing on a very strange line on government law, talking about it. We have very powerful organizations, in view of 5 billion, that will deal with these issues as they occur. The financial committee has not received any specific request to place on any further budgets. [[The president calls.]] This is a conversation at the highest. Ministers and leaders of these institutions will likely face this challenge.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u33	A respectable president. In the majority of these committees, it is made clear that in particular aquiferary market of 109,600 k will need to be extended. It is clear that this is unchanged from 2009. They say they're going to take a look at it 2020. I just wanted to ask, "Why on earth has this not been updated? " If this were updated today, the default target would be well over 200,000 bucks. It's kind of incomprehensible that they've been left unchanged since 2009, and then they're going over to the next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u34	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for his counter-sponsored response. I'll just admit that I didn't get the question, what exactly is this about the changes I went over here. I'm gonna pray. A senator to explain the matter more in the future so that I might be able to answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u35	A respectable president. It's just from a panther of commissions about bill change of various laws due to budget 2020 from a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee. It states clearly that the front line should not be extended in the same amount of 109,600 K. There was no up-to-date 2009, and there might be 2020. It's kind of weird because that's where we're talking about the cut-offs of businesses, which should be twice as much if the right thing had been given, if it had been updated. In that sense, this is really incomprehensible in order to restrict the level of disability. This also prevents the government from getting tax dollars from working because it is practical for the State, not troublesome.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u36	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and I know he's pointing to a holiday goal, that it didn't rise. I would think that should happen in connection with some of the big changes we've been talking about in this category, even though they're not indicated here. I would expect it to come into the overall context with other developments in the seminary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u37	Mr. President. I'm going to go through 3rd. of this blessed financial bill, and not taking much time in it, it is hoped to achieve some change in this share. However, I would especially like to draw special attention to the peculiar tactics of a greater part of the left green, progressive, and independent party not to agree with one single form of change from the opposition, although some of them are actually exactly like the earlier suggestions for the same people. This is incredible, Mr. President. It is also particularly interesting to sit in this blessed budget where there is a great deal of work, to welcome a number of visitors and managers, and to review a good report, but almost none of it is due to the changes made by the Committee. The changes made in the budget bill are almost all from the minister. The committee gets a document from the highest. Secretary of finance, and it is simply stamped. Sometimes I wonder why we have this committee when she does nothing with the reviews she receives. I don't think it's easy for anyone on the committee or any of those who attend this blessed council. The State of Law is at the General, but we're not going to do it. We do not have the confidence to make one single material change, virtually none, on the bill. We make technical adjustments, such as some officials, with full respect for them. It's very peculiar. I know that my colleagues on a budget board, even though they support this government today, agree with me, and I know this is not a new problem. It was like this in earlier governments too, but I'm just waiting. Senators, we must be able to get out of these tire tracks. We're here because we have some political ideals, we're not officials, we're going to go to voters, and we must be able to reflect our politics on a budget and get something through there. This is an amazingly sad situation in the financial industry. I wonder why you're coming here if it's always like this. This is the third year in a row. Now there's only one year of budget left, after we do this bill. Then this government, fortunately gone from power and hopefully will never come back.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u38	Don't be so sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u39	I hope I'm right about this because I think they deserve better. We are thekostos to fulfill our promises, and it is obvious that these are big promises of betrayal. You don't have to listen to the U.S. General Ágúst Ólafur from the United States, just listen to the Peace Coalition, listen to the National Socialist Union of Iceland, the labor movement, the students, the nursing homes out of the country, the health institutions in the country, the Land Hospital, the high school, the movie sector. Why don't you listen to these parties? None of them are pleased with this financial bill, and you still have 1,000 billion to play. What an accomplishment it is to provide financial contributions to 1,000 billion with as much dissatisfaction as you can see! That's amazing, Mr. President. It may be like a scratched record in the minds of some, but, nevertheless, an essential record of my opinion, to cover only what is in this bill. I'm gonna run over the main thing and I know that my partners have heard this before it's just true and none of this has been driven, nothing. Let's just take a look at college. This is not to fulfill the government contract promise that the college funding will reach the OECD's budget next year. It is in the government covenant of this government. If I look at the five - year financial program, we're going to reach the northern financial level. We're not gonna make it either. Number two. There's a drop in college from year to year. When was that promised in the campaign two years ago? I don't remember a single meeting with the laymen who said they were going to reduce money to high school. However, I remember promises here that the shorter coins so called should go on as well as the promised big press. I'm well aware that when high school gets smaller by a year, secondary school may be smaller and you can expect a coin to go up - to - date, but there was no promise. It was promised that they would stay and that they would be added. In the January 2, issue of this committee, the 2nd issue of Awake! it was clear which secondary education will be used to cut in between years of age. The only big offense I've ever seen in this is a major offense at Minister declarations that it's being spit in, in every direction, while it's all the same. The movie field. When was he promised a cut of 30% as a result of a reimbursement of the cost of filmmaking? I don't remember that election but it's on the bill. When was it really promised, Mr. President, that money should be reduced to the Technologies of Development, the Industry Fund, the People's Health Fund, the Communion Fund, the Communion Fund? I don't remember that election. And when, Mr. President, was it promised two years ago that the government groups, the left, green, and the forward team, let the independents rest only for now, intended to represent a bill that would reduce funds to aid tools, to rehabilitation services, to protect the workers at the workplace, to work contracts? That's a long way to count. The funds are reduced to law enforcement, to Peritoneal protection, and to the tax investigator and local prosecutors from year to year; they do not even keep up with inflation. This is just made clear, and these groups do not trust to accept a new form of change - you do not have to accept any form of change we have made in the United States, let it be if you feel that you feel so bad about accepting something from someone who is a member of the opposing party. Just make your own change, since you'll secure your money to the district attorney and the tax investigator. I'll be glad to accept that. But it seems to be too difficult. You can't just add another cent to the district attorney or the tax investigator for the Samaritan case. I refuse to give up all the talk that I am involved in some kind of research. I just see a key patrol officer who can't even get his hands on this suit today because of the Panama documents that are now in and ministers themselves. They are not even able to care for that problem and how much more so when the Samaritan language is added. It is in the best interests of all, even Samherja, that the study is done rapidly and effectively. No one's profit is that this investigation will be reduced to ten years, as some bank cases did. Why can't we just unite in doing this properly? Why do we need to look to Namibia to see what measures we can take? It is incredibly interesting to see that now that the Samherjam has become two weeks old, the government has done almost nothing. If you back up a little bit and ask, "What has the government done in the Samherja case?" Yes, she has proposed to place extra money on the district attorney and the tax investigator on the case. If we know, this government and the government groups will drop this twice, because we have a suggestion again to put money on to these parties. The senators of the left, the Independence Party and the forward party will not submit this proposal once, they will destroy it twice. They point to the reserve as I could in my counterweight. First, there is no reserve for a district attorney. We found out this morning, I think. And number two: It is not lawful to use the general reserve for this purpose. The usual reserve is to go to something unpredictable. Is the Samherian investigation unpredictable next year? In what world is this? Do people really think that this year's Union investigation will end? That is a month left of the year, of course not. Number three: It is said in law that the general reserve should not be used if there is any other way to improve. What are we doing today? We have the budget bill, we can add to these people today. It would be such a small matter and would be a parapolitic arrangement, and everyone would grow in it, and that would benefit the matter. Here people bragged that the surveillance partners were big and strong. These surveillance partners are not big and strong. The district attorney, the tax investigator, and other health care providers are not able to handle the issues they have today. It's an old and new story. There is no other way to say that there is no need for us to add to the situation. Any problem? The United Nations will be a huge language that covers many countries. International agencies will be watching this. Other countries will be watching this. Iceland's reputation is under. Seriously. Why can't we do this properly? This is in the best interests of all, including those who are accused of something grievous. We're not trying to hook anyone or anybody, we're just trying to ensure that institutions of surveillance that are not already involved in their litigation get the money we have to play to meet this need. No, the Minister's reserve is to be used. Put this in the hands of the Chairman of the Independence Party of All Men because he decides, he employs, if he thinks it's all right. I believe that the use of a reserve would be complete in a gray area, both the general reserve and the legal reserve, because these are not unexpected expenses. What, though, if he intends to take advantage of that route? Then it is his decision to do the money in this study. Is that really the step we want to take? Besides, he has no reserves for the district attorney. He doesn't have it. There's no such thing as that reserve. Then he will need to grab the general reserve, which is obviously not okay to use. Mr. President. I'd like to mention a few other things that matter. We in the United States, the Gang of the People, and the Pirates have joined us in one big move. She certainly needs considerable attention, for this is an adjustment that extends to the elderly and the desperate. I want to draw special attention to her. Idea here is that no one will be left under the minimum. We are the tenth richest country in the world. Why is it so important that we always argue about the amount of disability that the elderly and the elderly are going to experience? Why in Iceland, too many cases, must mean poverty? Why is it necessary to age in our fine country to translate into uncertainty and poverty in far too many cases? It is so remarkable that we in this hall really decide the wages of these two groups, 20,000 micromanagers, and 40,000 senior citizens. Therefore, it is highly political how we do these things, and it's amazing that we can't dose them, if that's the case, or guarantee them at least The standard of living that was negotiated in the so - called biography agreements. But these are the groups that are still left behind. You can certainly do better than that. I'm well aware that we can't do everything for everyone, but let's start at least upon the poor, and upon the old. It's supposed to be a little longer than we always start with. This is certainly the case because fishing costs have dropped by half since that government began. Fact. They have dropped by half. One of the first things the government of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir made was to change the law so that the price of hunting would be reduced. Political decision. Laws are man-made, and it's amazing that I don't remember that running out of elections in 2017 would be here to lower half the cost of fishing that it has. Today, the fishing expenditures have become so low that they do not cover the government's cost of handling the article, control and monitoring, and so forth. The number I get from a marine minister himself is higher. The official cost given to taxpayers is higher than the estimated cost of fishing. Today, the fishing fee has become so low that the price of tobacco and salmon fishermen will pay more for their fishing permits than the next year's fishermen. Sometimes I don't realize in the world what some politicians do because, legally speaking, it's the nation that owns this resource. I point out that I really want to be a success of the way of the sea, and I rejoice when it works well. That is important to us. But we must not forget that the fishing industry profits from the use of a common resource legally owned by the nation, and the nation is loaded when it comes to the fishing fee. It's so obvious. It's not like any tax, so let's not mix it. One of the best fishing grounds on earth is the fishing fee. That's a fact. I'm convinced that the fishing route can pay more in the common fund through the fishing budget than it does right now. The 2010 pay has been about 100 billion dollars. On fishing roads, interest payments that only go into the pockets of individual developers. Two years ago, one developer went out with 22,000 million in his pocket, do you remember? With 22,000 million people, one man walked out of one factory when he sold. [[Up front.]] You can't say that this is an article that doesn't have the right to pay more. The cost of the fishing road from 2010, in a decade, has improved by 450 billion, and in 2018, I have numbers, the prize is compared to that, was just a really good year, there was no sludge that year. The figures from the structure itself confirm that. This is incredible, Mr. President. There's no hope that this will happen to the government because it's so clear what interests are always up for. It was so symbolic, though none of the world's biggest cases, when president of the Independence Party, was the highest. Secretary of finance, gave a bill two weeks ago to cut down the clock when large ships are bought. That's what it's all about. Is it a priority to cut down the clocks of those who are buying big ships? Were the left greens and the forwards of the kin to put this first while the public must pay their dues? Why not mention e.g. increase in capital taxes that relatively few pay off the pay target? Why do we need the lowest capital tax from all the North countries? Why can't you take a look at and discuss a wealth tax, a big tax, at the same time as the 1% of the richest citizens who all choose the Independence Party on more pure possessions than 80%? 1% has more than 80%, and it's not a coincidence that all those of the richest percent of Iceland choose the Independence Party because they know it's the category that's gonna protect their interests. We're supposed to look overall. We're not always going to focus on 1% or 5% or 10%, focus on the big injury, the public interest. This will be said by every senator after 18 months when these blessed people seek reelection, but the actions speak clearly. Another fact: 40% of the new wealth produced since 2010 has gone to the richest 10% of Icelanders. So the property balance is not just high in Iceland, it's increasing. 40% goes to the richest 10%. The tax system is something we control here in this room. Why can we not use it in a reasonable way and contribute to more equalizing? Aggression is not just some beautiful ideologies, at least not from my point of view, equations are good economics, equations are good politics and good economics. An equalizing society is a rich society. It's so damp in a small community like Iceland. We're a tiny country, 360,000 people. We're so small that there are so many people born today in the world as they live in Iceland, think. We live in a rich country when resources are viewed. Why can't the exchange be even? Why does 70% of the population need to live at 300,000 or less, 70%? Why do some 6,000 children in the 10th richest land in the world have to endure economic inadequacy? It doesn't have to be this way. What we decide in this room is human activity. We decided on the tax political bitch, so we decided how to deal with our common quality. That's what politics is all about, what kind of system we live in. We are here with superrich people, super rich on European standards, and we can certainly do more. I'm not talking about everybody being equal. Of course, when it comes to the economy, people will always be different. It's not too late to be here. But we can certainly go further into increasing the equation here. In view of the northern countries, we are the nation that is at the end of Oxfam's list, and Sweden at the most, when it comes to recovery measures. It cannot be an inheritance that the left green can be proud of. I can hear it very often when I cross these blessed budgets, especially when I'm criticizing the left green, trying to improve the situation, that it is the goal of improving the status of the poor, the elderly, and so on, but now the time is running out. Patience is also running out. As I mentioned at the outset, there is only one financial bill left in this government. Her time is just over, and it's sad how the opportunities were not used at the beginning of the season when the economy was stronger than now, when there was a great economy, a better one. This is the government of the lost. The valley is about to become tough, and economic growth is falling apart. Then, of course, there's less playing, I know, but there's still plenty in the pot. Iceland's land production is high. Well, here we are created with a great deal of value, but the bioavailability and quality are certainly indiscriminate. Mr. President. We can't even have a government brought by socialist, in our own eyes, who is trusting to raise the interests of disability to a minimum wage. It seems to be too big a bite. Even then, disability needs to be less than a minimum wage. I don't see any socialism in this, no left-hand policy on this. I just don't see any good politicians leaving these groups behind. What I'm about to sound here is for people other than the United States. Other groups have pointed to this, and all that is needed is to look at the comments of the European Union, where it criticizes the financial bill highly Critic, that it does not guarantee social or economic stability. That's what the review says. Similarly, BSRB, the largest official organisation of two - thirds of which are women, has a strong report. These large groups that speak for a lot of people are in places similar to mine today. Here, it is truly unbearable and unjust. Finally, Mr. President, I find large groups - children, middle-and-minents, patients, students, elderly and desperate, and really the majority of the public - to be badly betrayed by this financial bill, the largest case of the government, the most taxing in politics. We have noted that government income options are badly used and address the need for community infrastructure. This bill provides no answer to the national call for further investment in the community's principal capital and is far from the extent of what these government groups praised in elections and is in the government covenant.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u40	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Ólafur Ágúst Ágústsson's speech It had a lot of good things in it, and it would be better if it were. A government official did not argue with any aspect of the budget bill. I don't argue with what. A senator of the better equations and equations in society is desirable and will not go into the discussion or on any of the other factors involved in the budgeting process. I felt that we were taking up a discussion about the school system and other things very well at 2nd. I just want to turn my question to the financial process. Hv. A senator is well - experienced and sat at a council meeting before we adopted a government law on financial matters. Probably there are some things that changed in the way of the law and the financial process itself. Perhaps the biggest change is that important changes take place in a more extensive business with a financial program, which you will be able to see on a budget in the fall. I'd like to ask you what. A senator into the big change, the advantages he sees in this new financial process and the fundamental change from the kind of work he knew before we adopted a law on public finances.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u41	Mr. President. I think the government law was a good idea. I like that we're not in the old tire tracks as far as it goes. Now we're going to make financial, financial, and then we're gonna set up budgets. I think it's a good thing. I'd like us to abide by these laws, including... Of reserves and such, but I know that men may need time to get their feet there. What I was primarily criticizing was what we do with this information. I remember when we talked about a financial program in spring, we didn't change anything. It was quite the same as it came from the minister. That's what I'm a little conflicted with, that we can't use the financial resources we have. I realize, though, that having here is important to me, and a five - year plan is very positive. It's a big deal to look out for, but if something is, it's going to have to be more transparent. I love what's going on. A senator and I would like to commend him as chairman of the Committee, but I encourage him to do better. When it comes to obtaining some political bitch at our job, we know that a lot of clients have criticized just how crooked the process is. I can answer this question: Yes, I support my whole mind with the code of law that we are working on. I want to go see more politicians in our work because otherwise I don't understand what we're doing here. Otherwise, it might as well be in the Ministry. I'm totally behind the fact that I think it's very important that it's being predictable, and I think the five-year plan has certainly been a step in the right direction. If that's the question, I'll answer yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u42	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I agree with what. A senator that I think there are great advantages in the long-term plan in many ways. Of course, the goal was to achieve more discipline, and I think it has been achieved. I think you can clearly see it through this process and how the bill comes from a financial program. The situation is not great, so there will be more for us to see. Actually, I think we need at some point to start talking about what it is in this process that we could improve. I'm slightly thinking that we don't do enough or we don't do enough things. At least I feel that we have a conversation with a client and that it is urgent to arrange for the council. I think the Ministry takes into account a lot of things we're suggesting in a financial programme into a budget bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u43	Mr. President. Yeah, I think discipline matters, but if we get a budget bill from a government that's not a good financial bill - we're calling for reviews from the reviews that criticize the bill - I feel too reluctant to meet their concerns. Why don't we step back if we get a budget, like we did, where we found that high school is getting a shrink? We're not supposed to be stuck with a bad budget bill. I realize we don't do everything for everybody. Why can't we cut the limit when we know that the Landspians come to us and say he's heading into a corner year after year? Why is a budget so busy with small projects here and where we don't live? I think we all agree on that. Why are we not more involved in the big business, in the politics? Perhaps the committee should advance the bill so that much more things and smaller items can mark the bill before entering the room. [[The president calls.]] At least you'd get at least one. More peace for us if you would let us have some good ideas.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u44	Mr. President. Why don't we talk about the big stuff? That's how it ended. A senator's case. This discussion has primarily been about the research of the last days, the small amount in itself, which is financed in other ways and is fully identified. Why don't we talk here about what really happened with phlegm failure, fall WOW, the problem with Maxs, Boing 737, Icelands - the big thing? That's what I'm talking about. A senator would agree with me about what has been done? Does he agree with the Secret Bank, the World Cash Fund, Mood's on how well they handled the economic events that took place here during the previous half of the year? That's the big thing. Here's a big adjustment proposal that I might have wanted to ask. A senator in. The changes are now being made to 38,000 million, a total of 4% of the government's expenses. It is similar to what has been suggested on the topic under discussion, offering about 4% on either side of 4%, an expansion from year to year. This will do the same. Then the big question must be to wake up: Is it right to go to such government spending when we are dealing with a certain economic recession, soft landing, or what we would like to call it? Is such a course practical? Then it may be the biggest question: 38,000 million - who's going for it? A senator picking them up? How should this be financed?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u45	Mr. President. Hv. A senator asks: "Is it right to go to this charge? Yes, when it comes to leaving no group under the minimum wage, I think that's right. Got it. A senator barely earns less than a minimum wage? It seems, the works show it. Got it. A senator's right to leave a bunch of senior citizens under the minimum wage? His actions show that. I don't think it's right. Of course, I realize that 38 billion is a high figure. I put it in context: One man walked out with 22 billion when he sold himself from a factory two years ago. When we have 1,000 billion bucks. I believe we can afford to leave no one under the minimum bill. So, yes, and here are all the receipts. We've been through this a lot, me and what. Senator. We're supposed to raise resource costs, in my opinion, now I'm just talking for myself. We can raise a capital tax, we can raise a carbon tax. We can have income-related capital taxes, we can take away tax steps together, we can tighten tax control. In Iceland tax fraud is rated at 100 billion dollars. You can leave no one behind and below the minimum wage. It is a political decision that would be made here. When you ask who I'm listening to, I say, "Yes, yes, I can listen to OECD and the Secret Bank, etc., and I will, but I'm also listening to the Micro-Communion Coalition. I listen to BSRB, too. I listen to BHM, too. I listen to ASI, too. They're all the big people I'm paying attention to, and they all agree with me that it's absolutely unnecessary to leave the weakest groups behind.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u46	Mr. President. It's fine when adjustments are made, let alone such sums of the money mentioned here, that there is a need for any kind of money that is missing in order to meet that change. We're talking about 38,000 million, that's 4% of government business in one year. These are enormously high numbers in all historical context. Would this fit into the uncertainty gap that we proposed in the financial program and in the larger context of the parts? I don't think we're in the real world when people come up with these ideas. The suggestions must then be made with a complete amount of money and with a view to how things are going to work. This should not be the case with people who are confused about these amounts. Since the year 2013/2014, since we began to increase the government's high expenses, and after we recover, 65970 percent of all the government's expenses, all the increase, have just been taken into these two sectors we are dealing with - 651.770% of all our expenses in recent years.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u47	Mr. President. I've heard this a lot, how hard this government is about putting in money for the poor and older citizens. As I have said, to see that it is not their feeling, it is all you need to read the reviews of the older citizen society or the Microcracy. They do not feel that there is more to be done, far away. In the review of the Corporate Community, I recall that all categories of social security are financed, all of them. It was pretty much like this. I don't see that poor people should be satisfied with this government. I know why. A senator does not feel satisfaction when it comes to the level of efficiency of the government, not when 70% of the disability is under 300,000 dollars. These routes are available, whether as a result of the increase in income production or as a result of other government companies. Is it really a reason to put it first to reduce the total number of bank taxes by 8 billion? [[The president calls.]] Is it really the first thing to reduce an inheritance tax or to cancel a clock charge for large ships? [[The president calls.]] The lines of tea are indeed there, but it is the political bitch who decides whether they are powerful or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u48	Mr. President. Hv. A senator's speech was natural in many places, but in a short answer, he has to make a choice. Because of what? A senator spoke of a focuser on the big film just that I would like to do, and maybe just start in general with the biggest picture that is the economic situation we are in right now. There's a recession in the economy, but here's the way of allowing the economy to work, so we're temporarily going to a state's budget and within the limits that have been set in financial policy. This is a huge issue that matters, for of course, it would have been possible to make the economic decision not to compromise and even to take further cuts. I'd like to hear a point of view. A senator on this and whether he agrees with me that this is the right procedure, no matter what the individual may think of the expenses of a single group of cases. On the other hand, I'd like to ask this first question. A senator of the tax system he's been talking about. The number of tax steps is now increasing to three according to what was determined in the biographies and the driving process is about to be undergoing tax changes that are most beneficial to those with the lowest income. That's the big movie, isn't it? A senator in a mood?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u49	Mr. President. Yes, I support the growth of tax steps, and the United States has made it a cause for rejoicing. Still, let us remember that the initiative was made. It wasn't that the initiative of this government, that was negotiated by the labour market. Be careful when they begin to decorate with stolen feathers. That progressive step was made, not in this room, but in a town. Of course I'm glad, though, and I don't care where good comes from, maybe unlike many in this room who can't imagine their little life agreeing to something from the state of government. I don't care about that. Our time in this room is limited and we just can't afford to play a sandbox like that. I'd also like to answer the other one. I like it. A senator is a bit stuck in the right ide, when he has it. A senator approaches an action to meet his contractions, the only way to cut down.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u50	No, it wasn't my word.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u51	Okay, then I got it all wrong. You see, I wanted to understand that sentence. I know why. A senator is not the right person, but I just wanted to draw out another way to get a hold of it and that's to earn money. It's not the only way to cut back, we can make money too. We can increase certain taxes on those who can afford it. It's the lost opportunities I've been screaming my face off since I was elected back in here. There are the wide volumes that we should try to find, and we can do so in a very efficient way, to finance the promises that we wereosine to finance. That's why I've allowed myself to say that this government is the government of the lost. There are opportunities to earn money that have been malnourished. A senator should have been more supportive of the rise in fishing fees, not their decline. Hv. Rather, a senator should support further increases in capital income tax. Hv. A senator is not supposed to fight for a reduction in tax taxes, as is the case today. A senator does this by his work of supporting this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u52	Mr. President. I was just trying to make it clear in my opponent that when it comes to the big picture, it is not the right course to take when it comes to government affairs. It's not cutting down, it's just that we let ourselves go down with a government fund because it's important not to cut down in this economic situation. I was asking who. A senator would agree with me that this was important. Because of it. It is important to remember that if the old system had not changed the law, it would have received 2 billion less in the fishing year 2019,2020 than we can get. However, the costs fluctuate with survival in this article. That is why it cannot be claimed that this government has dropped hunting costs. They will swing, and they will swing up at some other point. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u53	Mr. President. The fishing fees were over 11 billion when we took over. They're heading for 5 billion. There's a decrease, even. because of the changes you made when you took over. It was pointed out, ASI and others said that this change in law 2018 would cause a reduction in fishing spending costs. To fix a defective system with other faults is not particularly good politics. Fish fees have rarely been as low as right now as the 2018c yield is not as bad as you say. Number two, here's not cutting down, says why. Senator. What does that mean? A senator when high school gets less next year than it does now? What is it called when funding is reduced to tools, to rehabilitation services, to protected workplaces, to tax investigators, to local district attorneys, to Federal Protection, to law enforcement, to films, to public health funds, to Industry Fund? These are all the factors that I specifically listed earlier that show that they're probably cutting down. Schools, hospitals, and nursing institutions are held in custody. It's not right to say that we're adding all kinds of cases. [[The president calls.]] On the contrary, many people are being cut down, and I don't think they're good economics, much less political.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u54	Mr. President. The middle party worked at 2nd. budgets well - thought - out, and budgeted, changes made. Sadly, the proposals did not advance into public funds, but they were all in the greater part, members of an independent party, forwarding party, and left green, while the middle party reveres them in a different form, in the hope that the greater part supports practical suggestions that do not increase the trust of the State Fund. These include a donation of 790 million. K. ... toa national nursing home. By strengthening their nursing home, for example, they can release a difficult waiting list at the Land Hospital. Older people and long - suffering who enter the hospital and do not return to their homes will have no place in which aging homes and other institutions cannot accept them. Therefore, patients, as it were, get stuck in the hospital bed room and take places where someone else would be new to patients who need to enter a shorter period of time. In addition, operating rooms and other hospital services would benefit others and would greatly reduce the so - called efflux problems. It is quite clear, Mr. President, that the government lacks the perspective of this series. Despite the fact that the budget has been passed on to this end, health - care minister has not used it in behalf of nurses in nursing homes but, instead, has the money in a waiting account, where it will not be useful to anyone. This has made it clear to the legal committee's willingness to minimize the problem. 276 million were added to the nursing home management budget, taking the initiative of the Branch Committee to cover the 2nd. The budget for 2019 C.E. A year later, it will be seen as far as a minister believes that the funds are better kept unused on a waiting bill, despite the clear desire of the legal committee. The review by the Health Services Association states that the budget for nursing is based on a budget of 2019 and, based on the older so-called RUG standards for services rendered in 2016-2017, which were valid for 2018. Based on this, the organization points out that there is no up-to-date payment for households based on the latest RIG centres, as expected at the 2016 Service Convention. This makes it impossible for the nursing home to render service in line with their current nursing weight. In addition, the greater part suggested the Central Party's proposal to strengthen mental health at the Land Hospital, and the problem in this field has been growing each year. At the same time, funds do not keep up with the need. It has been observed publicly that money given to the seminary is far more returned in the improved well - being of its members and in the less pressures on health care. Hence, the Central Party feels compelled to follow that proposal after another time in the same financial payment. Finally, there are two suggestions for improving the quality of disability by providing them with support and a so - called vacation limit. Those matters have been very important to the consumers, except that their professional life meets disability by making them suitable jobs and that the amount of money they accept for their jobs is not unfairly impaired. Will be intended only if the government is not interested in improving the situation of disability in this respect, however, for the benefit of all. Mr. President. On page 18. 2 in Section 2 is a table showing the changes made by the Central Party at round 3. The previous suggestions are presented in a modified form, as previously stated. Besides, there are three new forms of change. The first to make a special donation of 200 million. K. to negotiate with a health care provider for replacement surgery to shorten the waiting list for such procedures. Another suggestion is a special budget of 50 million. K. To SÁ to shorten a waiting list for admission, but up to 700 people are waiting for treatment due to alcohol and drug problems. A third suggestion involves a budget of 10 million. K. to the Coalition of Coalitionists and inventors, MNU as the Society is short-cut, as well as the Sister Association of KENN, the newly formed association of women. The following suggestions will be considered in more detail. I'm going to begin with our proposal that there will be a special agreement with the health care provider that they will take on so - called replacement operations so that the long waiting list that is left of the operation can be shortened. Over the past few years, joint replacement operations have been covered, but because of long waiting lists, patients have been looking outside the landstones for such actions if they had been at home for more than three months. Foreign activities have a greater cost for government funds, as is known, than if such measures were taken in this country, as well as what is always a problem for patients looking for medical treatment abroad. The so - called wait - up campaign has not resulted in a greater shortening of the waiting period for replacement operations than is actually shown. Part of the problem is that at the Land Hospital, there is a lack of room because of the so - called efflux problem I mentioned earlier. The results of the new surgeon's diagnosis of a waiting list for replacement surgery show that while waiting has continued during the period of the campaign, this is still beyond the limit. The main reason is that the demand for such measures has increased faster than expected. Many cases are that the patient's waiting period for a waiting list to be put on after surgery may be up to one year. Then, in the waiting list, you will receive another waiting period that can vary from three to six and maybe eight months to one year. Therefore, the time for the patient to wait from the time of his orthopaedic surgery may be up to two years. A memo from the surgeon's office from May of this year on joint replacement operations suggests that more joint replacement operations need to be performed, and as if a shorter waiting period is needed for an orthopaedic surgeon's evaluation. The office considers it necessary to add the service to this patient group, and it should be wholeheartedly accepted here. A surgeon's diagnosis of the problem has made it clear that the land hospital lacks the growth in cleaning replacement operations, as mentioned. Furthermore, there is a design in the case of anesthesiologists and nurses. Thus, there is no room for the growth of replacement operations at a land hospital at the moment. For the individuals involved as well as the rest of the community, joint replacement operations are important. Long waiting time reduces the effectiveness of the procedure and affects the quality of life of the patients. The Middle Party's proposal for health insurance for Iceland goes to 200 million. K. Additional benefits were made to negotiate with a health care provider for replacement surgery. This can shorten the previously mentioned waiting time. In February of this year, the total number of waitings for hip-id surgery was 331 and the total number of waitings for knee surgery was 695. Clearly, the benefits of private health care are increasing, and availability improves. This reduces the stress of public institutions and increases the freedom to choose for patients as well as staff. So here is a very important suggestion, and I really hope the administrative part supports it. It is a treasure, and it is very important to those involved in this, a large group of people. Next thing I'm going to do, I'm going to move on to a special proposal that'll give you a special addition to the U.S.A. to 50 million. K. In a specialised health care unit, as we know, for alcohol and drug-treated patients with detoxification and treatment aimed at stopping or reducing alcohol and drug abuse. FEW activities are of utmost importance to society. During the last two to three years, the waiting list has been waiting for admission to UNEY institutions for a longest duration and is now well waiting for a seventh hundred people to be treated there. Some have to wait for more than six months to get into therapy that can have difficult consequences for the one waiting and his family. THE pressures of the health system are reduced by treating those who are ill due to disease and thus reduce their exposure to other institutions. These include individuals who have a high level of emergency care, put stress in them, and have many health - care complications. Clearly, this group of languages is very complex and in many different ways comes into the medical system. The central category feels that the Vog should be considered part of a food chain, which is a part of the emergency service, treatment and follow-up that the Icelandic healthcare system provides. Few families have family members or friends who have had alcohol or drug problems. It is vital that this quality institution be able to fulfill its role and help those who would like to receive it. That's why we're making this suggestion 50 million. K. which is like the rest of the Middle Party's adjustment proposals complete. I made my case at the 2nd. This case, Mr. President, stressed that it would be necessary to adjust the government. The middle class stresses this in their language and that it will be reduced from the state's viewpoint, which has grown very rapidly in the history of this government. The pack returns to its provision for management of all instruments. The proposal has been reduced by 100 million. K. from the first motion, and now it sounds like a billion bucks. I expect those who have spoken about reducing the state's mood, as the members of the Independence Party have spoken many times, especially in the leading of elections, to support our excellent proposal that should be saved among the advisers on about One billion bucks. The practical management of important issues can be used, e.g. to add to a national nursing home budget. For a table on the practicality requirement for each Ministry, see the committee's opinion on page 20. 4. Mr. President. Next, I'm going to go to the third adjustment proposal that we've added to our changing proposals since our previous discussion. She's attracted to the Coalitions of authors and intellectuals and women's partners of innovation. The suggestion goes up to 10 million. K. The budget for this fine association, unfortunately, has received much too little attention, and unfortunately it has been said that governments have not seen reason to strengthen this good organization. At the same time as the Ministry deals with innovation in the country, and during the days of contending, the importance of increasing innovation has not been given any government support for some time. The organization of authors and inventors, short - cost MNU, co-founders, KENN, the partner of women in innovation, the only general interest companies of the pioneers and intelligent people in this country. The budget is close together, and their membership is now a total of 316 individuals. Socializing is open and does not collect dues. Its motive includes Because the budget considers it its primary duty to reach as many people as possible in their efforts to promote interest in innovation. Despite the marvelous promise of innovation by the government, as previously said, there is no support for these important organizations. The budget applied for contributions to the budgets of 2020, i.e. for the next year's budget, with the view that contributions will also be made in recent years, thus supporting the activities of intelligent and pioneers in accordance with official government policies. Sadly, more of the budget committee refused this business. This year the MNU received written confirmation of the employment and innovations of the Office that there is no support for the activities of the stakeholders and intellectual workers. This must be considered indistinguishable, in view of the fact that the Ministry is treating this sect, as mentioned earlier, and is constantly discussed in promoting innovation. This makes it clear that despite the great emphasis the government now puts on more innovation and the use of intelligence, the Ministry is building one of the basic stakeholders and intellectual groups. Still, the covenant of the present government provides clear guidance on government wills, which, by permission of the president, says: ▪ Trends and practical wisdom are an important basis for a wide variety of employment life, a strong competitive position, economic growth, and the well - being of the nations... The government will work to make the conditions of the country's pioneers and sceptical companies outstanding. ... Free partnerships play a key role in the wide range of subjects that are important to support. You can see whose song paradox it is on the part of this government not to give a single cent to a free society in this area, despite the beautiful promises and beautiful declarations of the government contract. Since MNU is, along with the sisters' organization, KENN, the partner of women in innovation, the only general interest groups of pioneers and intellectuals can be made aware that words do not adhere to activities in this government. Women's money in innovation has been operated since 2007. The Society is in close northern and international cooperation with the goal of calling attention to women's innovation and creating positive female role models for future generations. The Society has named 61 Icelandic women to an international recognition called GWIIN. Two Icelandic women have won the main prize. In 2017, Dr. Sara Mjöll Jónsdóttir was rewarded for using plasma in the Blood Bank to raise stem cells. This year, Margrét V. Bjarnadóttir received the highest salary of GWlN, a new creation of Margrét is a software solution that performs a remuneration. The software solution is to examine the effects of the pay scale and to attack the pay range of the sex by means of action plan and cost analysis. Women in innovation are celebrated every other year, and the Society aims to keep her on the land in 2021. The central category here contributes a change in the bill to make a special contribution to these fine organizations and partners up to 10 million. "K., to the Association of Coalitions and Tumours and Women's New World Association. " This amount will be reimbursed in the following teams: office management, counseling and basic education, lectures and conventions in the country, participation in IFIA and showings abroad. In addition, funding would enable these two associates to grant recognition so that they can continue working with interesting ideas in the field of inventionism. By granting recognition and the making of people who are idealistically visible, it will be more desirable to activate their intelligence. It begins with an idea to solve a particular problem or to do something differently, to think outside the box. Intensification does not depend on education, age, gender, or appearance. Prominentness, or boldness, determines whether or not an idea arises and is encouraged by accepting it. Encouragement and commendation are needed, as we know, for new ones require much patience. As has been true of various international groups operating in an open country and in the national territory of building up materials, these communities are most likely fortified with annual donations. A special agreement should be made between the members and the state. Money plays an important role in the hands of those who are initiating innovation and whose feet are in the supporting system. Governments are often prone to forget this large and important group when it comes to the regulation and policy of innovation. There are many examples, old and new ones. The minister of innovation ordered, e.g. A recent working group for the shape of innovation policy and seduced one of the pioneers and intelligent people. One of the main issues of this group is that this important group of members will be given the right to influence policy development in the areas that concern their own interests. Government promises, as quoted in the government's government covenant, must be more than mere words. The mention of the largest section shows that the year 3rd. if the marketing authorisation is implemented in some additional organisations mentioned at 2 different sites. In view of my 2nd part, the introduction plan would have been better pre-imposed at the bill's donation, so technology modification that would not have had to be made in a protocol at 3rd. According to a financial hearing for a financial committee, the Ministry of Ministers strongly stresses that the State Department guarantees authority over the company identity as it is important in the inner structures of the state. In view of this view, the Ministry feels that this proposal should have been available in the budget, at the very latest, at 2 Peter 3: 1. Um, because this company did not become important in one week. Mr. President. I'm just going to step aside to the matters of disability that I couldn't discuss in 2nd. and the creation of the Central Party in this regard. We in the Middle East have a special arrangement for increasing the number of so - called support jobs in the poor. We need to work hard to strengthen the potential for disabled people and disability in a public labour market. There is a lower employment sector in this country than in the countries that we most compare with, and the range of recycling is much lower, and there is concern. In most countries OECD has high levels of government expenditures due to disability. A high proportion of micro-organization workers and their high financial expenditures prevent growth of the economy and reduce the workforce in a labour market. Many countries in OECD review the microenergy and support system with the aim of increasing activity and participating in individuals with impaired workforce. These countries mentioned the situation so that if nothing was to be done, society would not have afforded the welfare services that humans want to build up, both within the health and education systems, as well as not being able to provide the social support that is impossible to share in a workforce. In this country, the proportion of people in the microenergy pension business has been rising continuously for decades, and it is now becoming the case by far the highest compared to other countries within the OECD, and of course it is a concern. How important it is, then, to reverse this trend! However, the length of the project is very sensitive, for it is those who are coping with poor health and often under poor circumstances, with no doubt the need for much help and support. In general, the poor live in a much lower standard of living than will go and be among the people as we know them, and unfortunately, many people are desperate for poverty. This needs to be reformed. Very few leave the disability pensions behind. Against this, we need to work hard and to correct matters. Thus, those who go to the disability pension can easily be caught in the trap of poverty and worse quality of life for the future. How important it is, then, that we take decisive action against more and more energy uses in this country and expand the participation of individuals with impaired employment skills. Official cooperation with employers in this regard needs to increase their responsibilities. Some countries in OECD have built up a special stimulating system for professional drivers in this field. One of them is the payment of pay from employees with impaired ability. It is thus possible that the job drivers will earn a certain amount each month with each employee who will then be paid a standard salary from his employer. This arrangement is available in the country via a labour oce but is tailored to a very narrow budget. The Icelandic labour market is very limited in dealing with people with impaired skills. The United Nations should agree that this has to be done through a miracle, for as we know it, work is admiring work and giving a person greater satisfaction. It is important that those who are able to get a chance in these matters. The active involvement of the labour market partners is necessary to create microsurgents for actual opportunities for employment participation. A tax charge to employers who meet certain foods should be implemented regarding the proportion of workers with impaired employment capacity. Through work with support, those who are employed with limited employment because of mental or physical disability will be helped to find employment in a general labour market. This is a effective way that involves extensive support for the work in the new workplace. Exploitation contracts are remuneration agreements with employers who have hired people with reduced employment capacity and micro-employers labour contracts are designed to increase the potential of jobseekers with reduced working ability to gain employment in a general labour market. Thus, there is an important option to discuss with those with impaired ability. An employment contract is a contract designed to enable individuals to work or to train them. A contract is made between the labour oce and the job drivers in a general labour market. In turn, the labour oce repays the job to the level of pay and pay - related expenses. The pay ratio paid for the first two years is 75% but the payment rate decreases by 10% at 12 months apart until the minimum pay rate is reached by 25%. Payback never goes below 25%. A work contract like this can be done for a full-time and part-time job, and we in the Central Group believe that this transition is very important and suggest that the Labour Office receive an additional budget of 190 million. K. to further improve this important resource and to increase the number of micro-employment contracts. I remind you that this proposal is a treasure and is expected to receive extensive support at the council. This is one of the issues that the fast - moving organization has put on. In addition, we have a new proposal that is designed to increase the cost of disability that has been discussed in this discussion today. It is safe to say that much of the disability wants to work within the limits and abilities that are present in each individual. However, the insurance system is built in such a way that it does not encourage job participation, unfortunately. That's the job contribution target for less than 110,000 bucks. and has remained unchanged for a decade. If it had been at the price level, it would have been a free market of over 151,000 dollars. The system must be so built up that it really is benefiting from working. There's gotta be a chain-mortem decline. Thus, the central category contributes to an additional budget of some 240 million. K. to increase the average job income level. We in the Middle East have other forms of change, including cases of mental health, law enforcement, and forestry. These are important groups of cases, each member of his own field, and they are further identified in a committee study. I expect these suggestions of the Central Party, which are, as I say, all well - thought - out and well - equipped, to be well supported by the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u55	A respectable president. The separation of legal authority and executive authority is something that I'm interested in and was mentioned in the council earlier today. Little Iceland makes the management of stake ties a little more complex than possible and takes place in other countries. However, there is evidence to suggest that there is not even an effort, that the problem is complex, that all are so linked anyway that no contact can be eliminated. Examples of interest relationships that are very difficult to deal with are the relationship between the legislature and the Commission, in particular the application relationship, and those to monitor the implementation of the European Commission. In the United States, more and more parts of the country are classified as decommissioning to control everything, the work of the Parliament as well as the operation of the State. There are also examples of interference between the European Commission and the legislators of all levels of the jurist. This tradition, that most members of the council take the initiative, breaks down the Senate's surveillance role because it can never be more in the interests of criticizing one's own work. Thus, the smaller part is involved in monitoring without having the unlimited space needed to do the part because the majority of the material has been assigned to the council. This includes only two solutions, a tradition of minority governments, or the execution of the Commission itself in elections. This refers to the separation of the surveillance authority and the implementation of the budget because financial legislation is the Constitution of the Council to the European Commission for the handling of public funds. Budgets are the basis for the implementation, tax policy, management and the building of the health system, the education system, the transportation system, and the welfare system. According to the government's laws on public finances, the government's policy on finance and the implementation of budgetary policies, priorities, and cost-and-appreciatives are presented in the field analysis of various potential options. An example of this is the analysis based on the development of transportation in the capital area. It examined the prospects and how different solutions would meet their prospects. The results based on these analyses were concomitant development of stock road and city line. All other staged forms were more difficult and more expensive. In this context, it was ironic to see various political parties taking their stand against the building of a city line for last district elections. These political groups battled for the worse use of public money, fighting for worse solutions with poor polarist politics. The budget is different, however, and if anything is worse, all diagnostics are missing. It means, in effect, that the government wants to guess the reasonable use of public funds by the General. As a result, it is also impossible to follow up a budget with a kind of surveillance to determine whether plans will be successful or not, which is exactly what the Commission would like to see in general, that their activities are not monitored or at least Just virtual surveillance where governments can brag about anything without having any reason to do that. This is achieved by the lack of close supervision, only large numbers in the context of budgets, which are not distinct or costly, or in terms of profit or anything. There's a big number here that I'm going to do some work for, but I'm not gonna tell you how much it costs in between. But I'm going to tell you that I need 5 billion for that. And when we ask why the answer is: I think so. Even so, I'm moving 2 billion to the next year because we couldn't quite use all the money. It's a crazy thing to do. An example of the problem formed between the vague changes in surveillance and implementation is communication with a greater proportion of budgetary and secretary than just before 2rd. asked the minister about a number of issues related to the matter. The minority did not receive an invitation at that meeting, so they did not get the opportunity of getting to know the details that, according to the hearsay, were asked out in those meetings. The apology of the greater part was on the way that he had only been speaking to his ministers, as noted earlier, and found such meetings to be perfectly normal. Of course, a minister could be contacted here in a tunnel or in a house or in a coffee shop or anywhere to talk about these things. It's the same as the level of obstetrical decapitation and agricultural ministers Kristján Þór Júlíusson showed by calling a friend because of what can be the biggest payoff of Iceland's history to ask how he felt and who knows what else. There, the connection between interest and interest is determined at the expense of the Senate's surveillance role and the responsibilities of the minister to the council and to the nation. In 1 1. A law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland says, with the permission of the President: ▪ For formal communication and meetings, as well as informal contact should be submitted if considered important, between the management board's recruitment and non-participants. The management of budgets is definitely important, and when it comes to dealing with it, there can be no more than formal communication when ministers interact with a financial committee, whether with a section of the legal committee or with any financial committee. There are rules on this code, such as rules on registration in Iceland's Management Board, No. 320/2016, including is shown for formal relations: A person formally announced on certain matters for the management of the Ministry. The details of the meeting, when the meeting was held, and who were found should be minimised. If information is provided in a meeting that is relevant for the management and handling of a case, or is generally considered important for matters under the Ministry that are not included in other documented data, the notes should also be recorded in the registry. A meeting of more part of the budget board with the Minister on budgetary matters cannot be considered as a formal meeting and even if it was tried to interpret the meeting as informal, then the rules for such meetings are very similar: The Ministry Department of Communicators as well as non-employees shall have a list of relevant information on issues under the department. By informal communication, these include phone calls and meetings, which describe attitudes or information that are considered relevant for the management of a Ministry case or that is considered important for matters related to issues under the Ministry, as the attitude or information does not appear in any of the other recorded data. The timing of communication should be recorded between each person and the content of the information in question. This is a very clear, dignified president, and this is a point we need to take seriously. The track's scared as far as it's concerned. What happens instead of sending out more of the budget committee a formal address on a consulting memo to get precise answers to individual questions, a majority of the committee's members are preaching to their meeting rooms without the representative of the smaller section. At that closed meeting, a section of the council members of the board is given special access to a minister beyond the council to ask for a unique matter of budgeting. This makes them feel perfectly normal, just ending up with the ministers who could be interviewed in a number of informal settings. This, however, sums up the problem, the reason why there should be a separation between the legislature and the European Commission. There is a difference in access to information that increases the power balance that is sufficient between more parts and smaller parts, and when members of the board receive special access to Ministers to ask about individual items of the bill to fund shapes that all members of the Council have to address and vote on, the discussion can never be equal. Some who, according to tradition of majority authority, do not have access to information that the lesser part of a council cannot use and that the public cannot be informed in their committee views. Although there are laws on the registration of formal and informal meetings ministers, the information is far from being correctly recorded or sufficiently accessible to consider the contact of ministers with stakeholders or others. For example, in the opinion of the committee, I have the latest entry from the social and child - care journal which I attended on November 24, 2018. It's a week and a week of entry. September and then there's one journal entry for August 7th, too for some reason, very spes. In view of this program, there is not much work to be done as a minister, an extremely light job. Let's take an example here, Tuesday, September 3rd. Then there's a government meeting at the time. 9:30 and then the program's over. Obviously, Ministers do more, quite clearly, formal meetings or informalities, but it is not registered. No. What about the meeting material, information? No. Iceland's government has got to start taking stake ties seriously. This also applies to the dealings of a minister with members of the government. A minister has other authority and responsibilities in his role. Unofficial contact with members of the administration body or members of its own party can be classified as a registrational duty. Ministers have to watch until communication between the European Commission and the legislature authority. There's no way a minister can pass the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. The role of a minister is to the council and to the nation, not to the members of Congress. Let's just change our gear, hit ourselves in the new Land Hospital. There's another round-of-the-box problem going on that I still can't figure out, even though we've had guests try to explain it to us. November 7th. The budget was presented with the government's declaration of change to a bill for the 2nd Environment. The first discovery was made by a budget of 3.5 billion dollars. surgery for the implementation of a new hospital. The majority of the committee also said that they were making suggestions for the first time at a meeting of the Committee. The same day, the Department of Health called on a legal committee to ask the Commission about the implementation of a new Hospital. The question was: The Ministry's count reason to believe that the building plans for treatment cores and other buildings will be beyond the programs that have been introduced to this point? This was answered with the words: The Ministry of Health has no reason to believe that the building programmes of NALS will be in harmony with the programs that have been presented to this date. It's November 7, the same day we get to know about $3.3 billion. surgery. Then, November 13, the budget is carried out by another memo from the director of the New Land Hospital that, with the permission of the President, the steps of the treatment core and other work being done in parallel between 2020 and 2021, up to 3 billion, the number of projects. It was noted in the Committee Committee that this was followed by an explanation, i.e. a request for an explanation was received only after a cut-off was announced to the budget board. Another memo then comes from the Ministry of Health November 21, where it says that in response to the Ministry's Ministry, there could be a misunderstanding of ◯en that refers to a budget of costs, not a timetable, and is referred to in the previous comments by the Department of Directors of Family Buildings. I don't see how a building plan can be broken up on one side and on the other, a time plan when it's just about a building plan. It's the same thing, it's put together in one. Of course, when you are being asked for a change in the building plan, you are being asked for a change in schedule and cost plan. There's nothing to explain after: No, I just meant an expense plan. That's bullshit. The data available to a budget board after November 7, indicated that the right hand did not know what the left hand was doing, that was simply so. The Ministry of Health, which bears total responsibility for the project, in line with a note we received with these answers, did not expect to change the building program during the period of the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, which proposed a cut-down motion, evidently had other ideas about the building program. About a week later, the Executive Director explains that there are later aspects of the program where the cost of 2020 is shifted to 2021. As a result, the Ministry of Health explains that the budget will be in line with the schedules presented to date, not schedules. All right. Anyone, of course, sees the application at 3.5 billion dollars. Between years and years there is a change in cost, obviously, and consequently a building program. You see, there is a financial programme that we agreed on at a council, which takes into account factors such as production potential and priorities, which are certainly not properly defined. But this is what you hope for at least all times when you are making decisions like this. When you really see the change happening at this rate and at the time of which you can again remind you that it needs a cost-and-a-new analysis and that you need your priorities so that we can see what it was before and after, and it's not surprising to us. Of course, the shift in cost schedule is when 3.5 billion are transferred from year to year in the project. As a result, they fail to resist the claims of the Ministry of Health, not the timetable, but the cost. The ministry's presentation of this round-witness revealed that this move had been predictable for a long time. Based on all of this, it is just another point to make a comment, since this application in 2020 to 2021 is not enough but 1.5 billion, i.e. below expenses, in 2019 of the bill for budget 2019. This means implementation of the work of a new Hospital of 5 billion dollars. Over the years between 2019 and 2020, to be replaced in later years by implementation programmes. It's a little difficult to add 5 billion, you'd think, at the second period of the implementation program. This is not a small percentage of the total amount being transferred from year to year. All of this is not stated until the budget is proposed or the government's proposal for budget 2020, although this was a known problem for a long time, as shown in the Ministry's presentation. Official financial law states that it is, by permission of the president: ▪... without delay informing the relevant minister of any interference from the management plan, their reasons and how to react. The relative minister should inform the superintendent within 15 days about his position on the proposed response. In addition, each minister should inform the financial and economic minister of the potential risk factors and make suggestions on how to manage them. A minister makes the government and the World Health Organization recognize such risks and suggestions on how to react to them in the first place. If the cost of this year is long - known, then the cost plan will not last about 1.5 billion and 3.5 billion for the next year, you would have thought that you should know this by November 7. Thus, either the Ministry knew of these changes in the building program for a long time and did not let the financier know about it, or it was decided on short notice to make the survival of the 2019 and 2020 look better. Both are reprehensible. If this is added to the special relationship that the members of the administrations have with their ministers, the question must be asked: Is this information received to any member of the council and not to anyone else? However, the recent issues of Iceland's mail have been discussed, as well as some that need to be considered. There are decisions about investments, registrations, maintenance measures, and monitoring. In addition to changes in mail markets, the situation in the company is that it is an error for the next year that is not taken into account in a bill for financial gain. We know this, but we still agree to a bill for the budget without it. The next year, the private right of Iceland's espionage will be removed, and a service project that has not yet been funded and therefore has not been expected to be due to budget 2020. It was found in the Committee that due to the change just before the new mail laws were accepted, the costs of services increase by at least 100 million. K. There is evidence to suggest that in recent years the worldwide service burden has been overcrowded as shown by the maintenance measures recently used by Icelanders, without having reached a service limit. It simply means that Iceland has been in a very bad business and is charged for it through the manifest, which, in turn, charged users with their services too much to live up to their unfavourable business. How that matter will be resolved in terms of financial resources will be interesting to see. Hv. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's nest reminded me of the identity. I'd like to have a few words about the angle here. For a long time, it has been criticized that the identity has been scraped into the hands of a private member, but now it is a loss of business or some sort, the government has to take over. This is typical, the state area of the loss, etc. I'm not going to object that it should be in the state, but what's happening is very spes, both how the company came into existence and then how it is no longer possible to run it when there is no money available. Then that's the last question, what happened last in the discussion of the Committee. The last question represented by the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs was received in this round of budgetary budgets for 2020 was how to conduct monitoring on the implementation of budgets and annual reports per the status of the bill in terms of official financial legislation. We were kind of finished at the meeting, and I hung in one question at the end, just like, " Wait a minute." Based on the way the bill is played, how upset it is, in view of public financial laws, how do they not be followed, as I've said repeatedly in recent years, how can the council handle their surveillance role in the implementation of budgets? How can the council receive annual reports from a minister and see something intelligent in them? In the annual reports the secretary should evaluate the benefits made by sharing the government's budget for the various projects and when we are not allowed to see what the cost is, what the plan is, what is expected to be, we cannot compare it with the results to determine whether it was successful or not. When we cannot do so, we too can be no better as a result. We cannot learn from the mistakes made. This is absolutely lacking, for without these analyses, there is no way to monitor the progress of the management and implementation of budgets and Ministers to assess the benefits of government policies in their annual report. The answers to the question were few, they were simply silenced while representatives of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs considered the question. They knew that she had no answer, so the answer was mere silence. I thought it was like the silence of Doctor Who, for those who have seen those factors, the The Silence, as the rule is called in the show. While you look at members of the House, you know what's going on, but as soon as you look out, you've forgotten that you saw them, but the silence lives. I don't know how many times I mentioned this problem, but it's like every time it shows up a new financial plan or a new financial bill. The Ministry forgets this year after year. The General will forget this year after year. We just push a button, the more part says it's fine and they don't care because the more part doesn't monitor the budget, he just doesn't. Everyone seems to care if ministers get a huge amount of money for their seminars without priorities, without any kind of effort to inform the World Council to whom each minister needs all this money that is being asked. What's the point of charging the people in the country for taxes? The secretarys owe the assembly and the nation the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u56	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a long talk. I really don't know where to start with asking. A senator. But on the ground, I felt as if I were reading out of his speech that he thought everything was impossible and pathetic and that nothing would work out, which is naturally in a crying conflict with all the numbers and everything that we see. Hv. A senator arrived early in his talk and referred to transportation, and if I understood why. He was trying to refer to some procedures that would have worked well. Because I know the work behind the transport contract and the work that takes place in rural areas in the capital area, I think it is important to say that we have a very detailed task, so to speak, much more reserved than the government's financial laws. Nevertheless, it was the opinion of the experts, if we are a little, pardoned, respectable president, Takakician, that it would be most practical to do nothing more than to promote public transportation through a city line. On the other hand, when she reviewed the matter and looked at all these factors, the Polish king's conclusions were to follow the procedure suggested today. That's why I raised that question to why. A senator: How does he want to see things better in financial matters? Sorry, we don't have any excel program, some document where we can just take information and know exactly how it works. It's always some politics that has an effect, some political vision. Besides, I have to reiterate that it tells us all about what the picture looks like, that the political vision that has been in control in recent years seems to have moved us to where we are today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u57	A respectable president. Long talk, I didn't even use the entire speaking period. The interconnection problem - I thought it was very good, but it was a very poor covenant. There was absolutely no need to squeeze something in there through expenses, etc., absolutely unnecessary. It was a very critical process in which only the mayor and some people got access through the local community society in the capital area, a very poor democratic work that took place there, even though we still have the post-production process. There was a little blackmailal bitch in putting the treaty back where I'm not comfortable with it. Of course, the covenant was about a particular project, and it has just been done a staging analysis of transportation in the capital area. It set up ways A, B, C, and D or something like that, comparing just to building a transportation fortress for the private car, etc., or building up just for public transport and then mixing through two different exports, etc. The result was that the reconstituted route was the best. It was also the most expensive, but at any rate, it reduced the speed of traffic or increased the urgency of traffic, which can be said to do so. However, despite all of these projects, the demand for traffic will increase compared with the criteria given there. The staging analysis there, as well as the existing options, clearly point to the way that was chosen and the special projects chosen into the transport covenant. The route is not exactly the same, but you can well understand that it has been selected from the staging analysis and the cost-and-benefit assessment that lay behind it. I want more of that. When governments plan to get somewhere, they have reason to be able to do it in different ways, as government laws on public finance indicate, there's a staging analysis, there's the cost and profit analysis, and there we can choose. [[The president calls.]] There's a little political in priorities here and there, but that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u58	A respectable president. I can totally agree with what. A senator in that it is important to use staging, and we are to do so whenever possible. But I think that's what. A senator's simple case of too much if he thinks it can be all put together in some sort of excel-tail, sort out of it some stage images and pick one. Of course, we're talking about a combination of very many things, and that's normal, and that's probably why we're here, and some people will have to put this hall for an endless future to go on this thing based on political grounds. Hv. A senator may criticize our work on public financial laws. Now I'm not gonna say you can't criticize it. It can always be beneficial and do much better. I'm totally at it. But when we look at the old times we had here for the government law, and I mention it as an example when I came in as a deputy in 2004, 2005, or at that time, right at this time of the year, even later when the 2nd and 3rd verses were in progress. The budget was taken, the results were: a hundred thousand dollars. To the Whale Museum in Húsavík - I am, of course, taking some example - or even some choir or similar. These were small amounts of money for very specific projects. Then I am so pleased with the work that we have come to today with the law and with a financial program, which has a range of tasks defined under each department and under each key. There we have plans, and we have goals, and it is our tool at the council to monitor that ministers are using the funds they receive for the financial projects outlined in the budget. We also have goals that will be attained. I know this table is not perfect, and some agencies have to do better, and it's different and easy to work with it from a lawsuit. But I think it often forgets in the conversation we're critical of how far along we are in professional affairs when it comes to plans, because we're light years from what was done here before we had these laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u59	A respectable president. This is just a very important point, a comparison with the old times. There's something I'd like to disagree with. Hence, a senator with regard to financial funds, we are no longer light - year-olds. Then we'll know the senators in here less.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u60	But we have the big picture.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u61	We certainly have the big picture, but we're not doing it in a way that is supposed to achieve the transparency needed to make light years more effective than thinking about a hundred thousand times or so, being free of it. But in the place where we are now, because we are not going to follow the law, I'm critical of the budget now, and I've done in recent years, because I want to see it as it is set up in government law. I see how beautiful this could be, in fact, a financial plan and a bill to finance, if we were to live up to the conditions set out in the law. That's why I love it so much that it's not even tried. As a result, the situation is worse than that of here before we set public financial laws regarding the demonstrations of extraordinary financial resources. Therefore, we do not see how the pressures or sources of an individual agency receive or receive unique tasks, e.g. A few institutions. I think it's extremely important. I'm very much in favor of the arrangement that's under official financial law, and that's why I'm so hard to criticize that we're not there. I think the whole department should totally stop what they're doing right now, because they're actually working under the old ship study on building the budget bill, I think, at least, it's the product. [[The president calls.]] They must begin at the cost-and-improvement analysis, starting with the policy measures. [[The president calls.]] There they go. The rest comes pretty easily after that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u62	The president asks why. Councilmen to respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u63	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator before the talk that was long, even though he did not use his time. It's very nice to hear a talk I've heard several times here, over and over again about shapes and technicalities and, of course, about the lawlessness and law of everyone else. I know the word. I just have one question. The financial laws and suggestions made by humans reflect the political views and viewpoints of members of Congress. Has a what? A senator and his party over a head of some political vision? Is there no basis for belief in the subject of this bill? Does Piranians want to raise taxes, reduce taxes, change the tax system, share money differently, or it's just about some form, some technical thing the Senator talks about, and of course nobody understands? Understandably, those who get divorced disagree with that fact. The question, though, is: Does Piranians have any opinion, some political view, other than that others are corrupt and cannot obey the law?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u64	A respectable president. The answer is simple: Yes. That's as easy as it is. Hv. Apparently, a senator has not studied Pirata's 2nd district proposal. where we shared to lower taxes with an increase and payment of personal discounts. The course is, for example. There, in general, and this is the same question as I answered in answer to the 2nd. We focus on professional work, where our core is civil rights, freedom of expression, transparency, direct democracy. After all, in this simple, but fundamental, matter of life, we are good people. They may not reflect much on the budget each year, but they do so in these budgets, in the Second Environment Act. where a tax reduction was made consistent with the progress fluctuation in progress and where the rights of disability were e.g. Loyalty, where they are being taken from their money now for every cent they earn. There's a fight for rights. It is reflected in our financial and financial resources. Therefore, I criticize the lack of transparency in these funds, for without the transparency a minister can do anything and we are against a minister's ability to do anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u65	V.E.G. President. It was good, though, that there was some political vision, a tax reduction. We're here on the budget. I can totally agree with men on transparency, human rights, and all that, there's no disagreement, and there's really no discussion right now. I wondered that all the time I've been attending a council with Piranha has been extremely difficult to recognize the political ideologies of the Party and perhaps members in general. Maybe it's a very variable. I wondered, " What is the political function of the party and its members? ' Are they here just to point out all the immorality and corruption, or are they here for politics? Okay, lower taxes, I'm very pleased with that, and I agree with that, and that's a very good political bitch. [[Up front.]] But when you listen to senators and partymen through some means, you don't have to experience a political decrease in taxes. I experience the category as an old - fashioned left class for a main policy that usually uses virtualism to promote itself. Now it's about corruption, lawbreakers, etc. All of this is known in the long - standing history of the deacons of the people. I call on Porta's members to give serious talks, to have some opinion of the politics involved in this bill under discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u66	A respectable president. Human rights are on the budget bill. This was clearly shown during the recent discussion in which a particular corruption case was dug up in an Icelandic company that has shown a particular possibility for bribes and other interesting activities, apparently in its own policy, to ignore the pressures that the issue can put on government laws and legal rights. In recent years, all that can be seen is that it has been progressively undermined by the surveillance and monitoring institutions, the institutions that protect our rights, just below our budget. It can be seen from the list that these institutions have and cannot complete, from the number of initiative studies included by the U.S. agent but unable to add. [[Up front.]] It is seen systematically on the decision-making committees that are all over the system and are to help us protect our rights and how long they take to answer and finish. It's showy, isn't it? A senator, when the minister of finance crows right, left - and who is in the left control of another? So you only mention it - when you're at the highest level. Secretary of finance has crowed right, left over the council chamber to choose a particular case to prosecute, etc. No, it's about the other problem. How have the funds of our surveillance agencies been undermined that should be handled but that have not been done?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u67	A respectable president. The financial bill for 2020, the 3rd Environment. It seems that there will be no turning back when the majority of the items have framed their will and about the bill has been paid votes. We know how that will turn out. No one is doubting it. This bill reflects exactly the same thing as the first two delivered by this government, i.e. She does not intend to improve the interests of those who fail. That's for damn sure. There are still thousands of Icelanders who get paid far below 300,000 dollars. ... inthemoney. Is that fair? No. Is that just? No. Is there some human being who is acting in such a way that he is the least of his brothers and sisters? No, it's not. In other words, it is not intended to improve the favour of the lowest paid for any dynamic object beyond the legal index correction to be made on January 1, 2020, by 3.5%. Pensions will remain in the cold. Secretary of finance has proclaimed widespread tax reductions, changes in the tax system, the third tax step. Shall we take a look at it? This will cost over 20 billion government funds when it is fully accomplished. The project has been rushed for a year. This tax reduction is due to be accomplished in two years, in 2021 it will be fully implemented. As an example, I can mention that a person with 300,000 dollars. a month's salary will be correct about 2450k. in the year 2020 of this extensive tax change, this third additional tax level. Is this the right priorities for money, Mr. Honorable President? People's party says no. Although it is extremely good and good to pay to lower taxes, a decrease in the third tax step was made up all the stairs. I, an invalid of the supersonics, also get this tax reduction whether I have it to do or not. Well, that's about as simple as that. Of course it's said it's best paid. Of course. Great. Why not? This is natural because the person with most of the crowns must remember getting something rather than nothing. There are so many things about how we pursue the priorities of money. I did not stand here very long ago for an hour in the 2nd district talk. the budget where I actually said most of the things I wanted to have, but I'm still going to mention a few points, e.g. is one about making changes that makes me very happy. Actually, it doesn't matter what adjustments we made. Not only does it matter what changes the government's proposals bring, it's canceled. It is not even foretold whether the adjustment is good or bad, whether it costs money or not. It doesn't matter. It's just the government policy that puts it in place, so it should be rejected, so let it go. So now the deal on the island here at the high Council. However, I can be proud that in spite of this treatment of the government opposition, the government has repeatedly paid votes for good suggestions and good works that the government has been doing. If it seems reasonable, natural, and important to us, we have led them on a path. It doesn't matter whether we do it or not, it'll go through anyway. It doesn't matter, but at least we show our will. There's one thing I'd like to point out that was really surprising, but that's the problem of the nursing homes. We've been able to see that a nursing home has been fired with a loss all over the place. Last year, before Christmas last year, the funds in the extras were granted 276 million. K. to the SFV, a community of welfare services, to support the home of nursing households. It's far too bad to say that now we're closing these funds, and the funds haven't been paid out yet, not one dollar of a hole, not one. What would be the explanation for this? Yes, the highest. A health minister says that they were not negotiated. They're only free contracts, and they haven't been negotiated while representatives of the Health Service Association say it's impossible and impossible to reach any agreement with Iceland's Medical Insurance. It's just completely normal, and I'm sure it's the highest. A health minister said, in view of all the agreements that have already been made in a welfare service, even though 10% of them have not been established. It's okay, but it's okay, even though there's a 203/430 deal that nothing's been done to negotiate, even though it's now 276 million, which I have no idea what's going to happen after we've shut down the budget and funds and all but wash out the window in a natural way. Clearly, that is what has happened because otherwise the money had been negotiated and given to where it was supposed to go and where it was needed. There is, in fact, a small, respectable president who is beginning to surprise me here. I'm proud that we've got ourselves together, three groups of government opposition, Piratars, Group and Group of the People, and I've put together some changes that cost a lot of money that shows how we want to set our priorities. People have always said, "We put the people in first place." Before we raise the ceilings and malaria the street, we want to get people out of poverty. We want it to have a roof, we want it to have a home, we want it to have food and clothing, and we want it to seek medicine. That must be the principle we should set for ourselves. We, one of the ten richest nations in the world, still look at an amazing poverty. I'm not gonna have this very far. I'd like to say something weird too. We were very happy when we introduced the NAPA service, the user - controlled personal help, very happy. But think of it, it's code-controlled, the user-controlled personal aid is saying goodbye. Not everyone who needs it, just the chosen, 90 out of 130 or 140 people who need it, get help, and the other 40How50 don't get it. Why not? It's not for the money. That's how we put our money here. Here's your priorities. Who's she biting on? The people of the country, the people who need the most that governments chosen for the project, usually every four years, stand by what they say when they promise all the beauty in a campaign, they stand by it without losing any sense of emotion. But all right, let's wait and see, it's about to run toward a new campaign. It'll be nice to see them see what your list of promises looks like. But the difference between people with NAPA services is almost the last. Surely all of us can agree on that. When government agencies put it upon their communities to accept services to their inhabitants and they may not have the resources to deliver their expected services, governments should deal with them, prevent discrimination, meet their local communities by strengthening them financially so that all who need to be served can be served. That must be a minimum right. I say finally, I'm not going to go on, it's getting good, that we know what it's like, it doesn't matter how we blow here and what the man said. Everything we say in the government stand will be swept under a blanket. Most of the cases that take us to committees do not usually involve us in votes. Now it's Christmastime. Then the horse shops on the island begin to negotiate one thing that we may be allowed to come along, recommend, and cut. Great. This is how the council works. Maybe I should say this under the council, maybe tomorrow or the other. Finally, I say this: The government will continue to hang on a controlled evil system that few or no one can understand. Sick old people are not allowed access to nursing homes. Governments are cruelly taxing poverty and detracting shamelessly from those who are ill, with 121.75% of children suffering from various degrees of shortage. There is no basic need for the city, lack of food, clothing, and shelter. The failure of the government is complete in spite of heavy subjugation and the demand for greater justice for those with income, far below the poverty limit. Ironically, the government boasts of unprecedented goods at the same time that it denies justice to poor people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u68	Mr. President. We're taking over here for the government budget for the 3rd. It would be very nice to have a conversation with a member of the Polish section of this financial bill when we're sewing it together, but there's quite a lack of it in the room. There's two of them, but I'm ad for more. What I think stands out in the discussion of this budget and the government's economic policy are the contrasts between the government's self-admirability, we can say, with what it is doing great things in the economy because at last its spending efforts have met at the right time in the economy, where it is possible to need and, on the other hand, the criticism that so often helps the members to determine exactly this same course, which is remembered by the government, which is that it is not necessarily the right spending that is being stressed. It's true what's been said here, and it can be very positive in the interest of the government that the government's budget is being used in an ever - increasing manner. But it does not matter how much money is spent. The continuing in an uncontrolled expansion of the state's coven, which has been the policy of this government since its appointment, but continuing to neglect necessary investments, is simply not a reasonable economic policy, and at least at times a downturn in the economy. It is far more valuable for economic systems to be encouraged by the increased government investment and, more important, public taxation as it has been in the past than simply to continue to be more controlled, as this government has been. There's not much of it in this budget bill. We are still under the long - term average in public investments. Many of the projects that still suffer this deficiency have been identified. This has recently been signed a special transport agreement with the rural communities in the capital area, where it should be noted that the State's object is still inexpensive, and it is looked to the increasing taxation of the public in order to finance that section and possibly selling property. On the part of the government, how that investment will be achieved is still very vague. It was proved that the government was already criticized for setting out with all too optimistic conditions for economic development. The bow was excited to the limit on the basis of their economic forecasts, and now the government is stuck with a problem that will be difficult for her, I plan to predict, next year, and the year of election. The bows of the concordance have been fastened so high that there is no room for needed investments. There's no room for the tax doctors that the government promises in the election year 2021. I predict that on that basis, she will find it very difficult to get together under the rule of law by 2021 C.E. It is still noted that while economic forecasts have been revised and the budget adjusted to some extent, mainly by making room for allocation, there are still pales in Icelandic economy. There is still considerable uncertainty, and there is no evidence that economic development will calm us down next year as much as the government's budget is expected. What's quite critical, though, and where I'm not just going to criticize this government, but the general government of government, is how aimless the fee is. In terms of budget budgetary schemes, there is usually no clear or defined goal for which the increase should be due or, more importantly, what the overall contribution to the seminar should be made. The success of this government has primarily been measured in the extent to which it has managed to increase its spending, not how much it has been able to improve its services to the people of the land, how much more efficient the government has become, or how much leviation has been able to create for tax reductions in the land that are long - time and necessary. What stands out is that now, at the end of one of the longest economics of Icelandic economic history, we have state costs at the bottom and a taxation on the public and businesses at the bottom. If this crisis or economic crisis we are facing today is going to be more serious than is expected today, the government will need to take on familiar measures, their raising taxes in companies and the public at the same time as the economy needs to be stimulated, not growing up or more tighter in the form of higher taxes to finance the government's irresponsible financial policy. Secretary of finance has been talking about the success achieved that the total cost of the state's budget is now 1,000 billion dollars. In contrast, it appears to be quite proud, despite the years of Independence Party debate on the need for permanence. Rarely, government spending has ever been increased in such short periods of time. When we look at the results of these findings, we see no better than that the system's integrity is as long as they were before that government began. There is no apparent result. There has been no apparent success in handling the flow problem of the Land Hospital. No significant success has been observed in the building of nursing nurses for so long. On the contrary, the needs of health - care investments have repeatedly been delayed, apparently to cover the gap in increased consumption, the uncontrolled spending of the government. Of course, it is critical that there are no actual rates of government success, no scales of diplomacy, no criteria that we can see in the budget of what these 1,000 billion will do to citizens each year in improved service, or what opportunities are there to do even better for the same money or even less money, but not just to continue blundering. When it comes to the health system, it is the most important thing to mention the government's indiscriminate hostility on a personal level in the health system. You can't see anything but the highest. Despite countless cases of effectiveness in services far greater than in the public sector, the health secretary has set up an army against the private contribution of the health sector. You must ask, with all this emphasis, to bring more and more members into a hospital, as it is said for practical purposes, whether this is the explanation of the uncontrolled hospital's sludge management at the same time. In spite of large financial contributions made to the hospital, it seems that this is not enough to meet the needs of the hospital in the history of that government. At the same time, it has been repeatedly noted that using a specific healthcare provider at home can be more effective, e.g. in replacement surgery and ocular stone surgery. Depending on the extent and extent of the cost, it may continue to be counted and continued. When asked about cost analysis, there is never a clear objective of what the change should be made, the benefits of the change, either in the form of less cost or better service. That analysis is never done. This is not an acceptable operation on the government. This is something that a financial committee must consider much better. What are some of the benefits that we set out for our government? How can we determine whether the taxpayers are well handled? At the same time, it is proper to say again and again that during a period of economic downturn, it does not matter how the budget is applied. Increasing investments is far more effective than increasing the amount of cohesion. It has a multiple effect on the economy, promotes private growth, and promotes the enterprises in the country that are dealing with the recovery of the economy. The government has repeatedly chosen the other way, to compound its consumption further. The reviews of a number of people, such as the Industrial Association, the Business Association, and the Business Council, point to the grim fact that after all this time, we are still under the long - term average of public investment. We have never reached the long - term average at the time of collapse. That must be a sobering thought, and it must be for the government now that there is a tight squeeze to the limit of the government's financial affairs to the future with a cooling economy. It has simply been way too far into expansive growth and an overdose in the necessary investment that would have been much more convenient if there had been some room for such action right now. In the next three years, we would have had to see an increase of 1,3050 billion in public investments to cope with the coldness of the economy, but unfortunately, there is no room for that. We would also have needed considerable room for tax doctors at this point in the economy. It is good to remind again the fact that this year we pay about 100 to 120 billion more in taxes to the government than if taxes had been the same as before a collapse. This is not to say that it is the only correct tax rate, but it reflects the much tax increases in the years following a crash to meet the needs of a government fund. Then, when the state's status improved with unprecedented interest rates, the rest improved more and less, not to relax the much tax increases that took place. The fact is, as I learned earlier in my case today, that we are one of the most taxable states in OECD. We have one of the greatest public expenses as a proportion of GDP. However, we are an unwary country, which makes up the OECD countries, which should give us some benefit in comparison. This clearly indicates that for many years this was a time of extreme government control. Again, what is the aim of public management? Where are the goals for economic management? How do we see results from the money we give in the government business? That funding is high, and as we have repeatedly seen in this discussion, it is 1,000 billion dollars. next year. I have repeatedly criticized the fact that by means of their spending spending regimes, the government has promoted the growth of the left government during 2009 ◯2013. They are permanent, and it will be very difficult to wind down from that situation. I also fear that the government's freedom to tax doctors, which have been pushed up until 2021, will be very limited. There are three important points to consider. Despite a reduction in income taxation, taxation of the individual's income is still high and much higher than in the rest of the North countries. Despite the weakest, I could say, plans for a decrease in bank tax, which is to begin in 2021, we're multiplying the taxation of our banking system with what's going on and what happens in our neighboring countries. It's not just a tax on some bad bank. The obvious thing about the situation is that we pay these taxes, the public and the companies in the country. We already see the consequences of the bank tax. At the same time that the Navy reduces interest, not because of a great government, but because of the economic crisis, the banks are raising the budget of the companies in the country because they no longer control the much official curses of the banking system. 15 billion are particularly affected by the government's banking system, taxes that are not common in the countries around us. It has to be said, as it is, that the government's plan for the decline of bank tax is absolutely trivial in this context. I fear that the decline will still be postponed when there is even more financial urgency. More important, the insurance bill comes up repeatedly in a discussion of unnecessary tax reductions. The insurance bill is at the end of this rise cycle even higher than it was in 2008. Despite this tremendous length of economic growth, which we have gone through, we have not been able to download the insurance fee as it should. In a community where technology poses an ever - increasing threat to work as a result of technological progress, it is a very peculiar aim to tax killing jobs. Let's just look at the two facts again: We still have a very high insurance fee in history, and we have a huge taxation on the individual income. All of this ultimately leads to a very high cost of pay, which further contributes to a reduction in the number of jobs in the economy, a greater reduction than would be necessary because of the changes we face. In fact, that's what we see happening right now, in the economy, this steady economy is taking place, and reports of corporate resignations in the past few weeks and months have been nonstop. This means no political policy. This is once again simply the dangerous compromise involved in the cooperation of these three categories, to paste in this cooperation an expansion in financial programmes, and now the government's financial bill. In this regard, there should be no compromise, much less economic control or tax decline. There are some factors that I would be interested in wondering at the end of this discussion. There must be a review of how we speak about the financial resources of the state, with the changes that have been made in public finance. We are in repeated discussions that spring and autumn are more and less about the same things, on the other hand, under the merits of financial programs and the merits of budgets. I'd like to see a much stronger arrival of the council in the discussion of the government's financial programme, but possibly with the premise of simply giving the government, the Commission, increased freedom to the implementation of the budget of each year. The policy is certainly in a financial program. The box of each group of paintings is made available in a financial program at a time. It is true that the council puts considerable weight on that discussion, but it also has room, and there may be open conversation in this hall about the priorities involved, not only as we see today in financial and financial arrangements, but simply through a financial committee to fulfill the form. There is no real discussion about the political priorities, no room for the council to deal with. These are simply forms of change that come from the Ministry of finance at the end of the discussion, both when it comes to financial planning and financial law. Perhaps it would be proper to try to find a better balance so that the council would have a better approach, hopefully just a more parapolitic approach, to shape a financial policy, as it should be borne in mind that when we take e.g. to address the annual financial agenda as far as the next terms, and completely unclear what political larger things will be then. It may be reasonable for the memory of the part to have some access to the priorities it has set. At the same time, the discussion on budgets might be shortened in the fall, as if within the framework of a financial program at any given time. There's also another thing that I'm really thinking about after all this discussion, after the change in government economic policy in spring, after the debate that was in the conference yesterday and today about - though it's a minor matter in the overall context - funding of the tax investigator and district attorney, and that's the lack of fundamental trust in public finances, that we respect the princes who are set up in the laws on public finances and then make us the basis for them. That is where I look in the first place to renew the government's financial policy for us because the economy was at that point in the air. It was given an uncertain range of 0.8% of gross domestic product. What do we see? We see that this uncertainty gap does not seem to cover the growth of state funds in 2019 and I'm going to state here and now that there is a overwhelming chance that the government's tail will be broken by the 2019 C.E. by 0.8%. The fact is, the Ministry of finance and finance ministers have no idea of the possible survival of rural society in 2019 that is to be settled within the same uncertainty gap. Nevertheless, the funds have been run down to 0.5% angle. Not all of us have been buried in the State itself yet, but we know that our rural communities were fired at 0.3% in the past year and that their views must have deteriorated, as did the State of the Year. This is most reprehensible, and it violates one of the basic laws on public financial matters that are cautious. We're supposed to be cautious. We are to leave space to ensure that the contribution of the Kingdom Fund is undoubtedly within its limits in financial policy. This should not be just some reference that we can break, as it were. In that case, simply keeping the law on government finances is not the goal when the law was set in its own time. The same is true with the way we use, e.g. Product funds that have been very much discussed with the local district attorney contributions. This has been pointed out repeatedly, including On the part of the State Retrospectives in the reference on budgets, in fact the same thing about e.g. A donation to the Church during the unfinished church meeting. It was totally predictable spending that has been repeatedly put in the budgets. They could be dealt with in another way, i.e. it is up to them in financial matters, but it was the choice of the European Commission not to do so, and it violates the law on public finances. V.E.G. Secretary of finance, not here at 3rd. of budgets, must just be skin - yeared because of their accusations. It's just the fact of it. This is not part of official law. The government of the government of the government is still missing that there is some princely structure, that we respect the boundaries we have decided to put ourselves on the news committees. It's not some political anchor, it's about how the law is maintained when it's tried and that it's not broken when it's convenient. It is sobering to consider, as discussed earlier, how to finance needed expenses for the local district attorney next year. As mentioned in the news, he has requested a considerable increase in financial contributions, and I ask: "Why on earth was it not expected in financial matters? It's been going down. The government had issued a specific declaration that she was going to take this action, but she chose to do it only with some sort of willingness of work and was going to sweep away some money. It must be kept in mind, as the case showed. A senator and chairman of the legal committee, Willum Þór Þórsson's son, cannot be mixed there with litigation. You can't transfer funding from the governor to the district attorney, it's different. We don't mean them from that side. It was also noted that there is no reserve in the local district attorney business. So I ask: How is the office going to secure the necessary budget without violating public financial laws? I think it's a very normal topic for the budget board to call for information from the government. All of us must agree that we are going to make sure that our office has the funds needed to do the vital research, not just the Union case mentioned here, but the number of other matters, which are extremely important, including. a complex economic offense that could bring up the state fund of increase in income in time. It must be made sure that this is done and correctly. In short, there is no particular example for the economy of the government. The cost increase is absolutely unprecedented, and we are left at the beginning of an economic decline with expenses at a maximum of historical, tax and tax percentages. The question must be, How will we react to the coldness that is about to develop if something is greater than what is expected? It is proper to remember that in public economics, complete silky landings are still expected, land landings we have never seen in the Icelandic economy, and there is still a serious tinge in the air. While there is no reason for despair, there is good reason to believe that next year may be difficult for many reasons, that it will be marked by continued management in the economy in general, by relatively poor management of companies in general, and because the home is more comfortable when it comes to personal consumption. All of these are factors that have an enormous impact on the income of a government fund, and, as a result, we have every reason to fear that we still overestimate the state's attitude into the next year and that the uncertainty of the gap that is already going on with these laws will simply not work. I don't know what the hell's going on. The government will then do, whether to reevaluate her financial policy another time because she has not been able to remain within a new, new financial policy that has become six months old.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u69	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn Víglundsson of speech. There are two things that I'm going to come up with, one and another, the economic lead of the state's money business. A senator, on the other hand, was doing quite well with the efficiency and economy of the government. I'll be in charge first. Hv. A senator tells us that we have met accidentally at the right time of making the move. Of course, it's not that, Mr. Honorable President, and it's not of any kind that we're pointing at these things. A financial committee took advantage of more fortune - tellers than just the Organization that is expected to fit in and that it was necessary to reevaluate policy. I'm just going to say it so that she had reason to get rid of the straitjackets that financial counsel had repeatedly pointed out to us. In the difficult situations in which we are, I agree. A senator says he's got a flash on his feet. We're supposed to be looking very seriously at the economy when it comes to these factors. I call it the right to loosen this straitjacket. Then we can debate what should have been done with the uncertainty vector built into a policy. A financial committee promoted doubles from what was originally intended in 0.8% of GDP. We can see, though, that the state's funds yield to their survival and ensure that plans will be kept so as not to make a subsidized economy that will take more out of service and investments than it would have been. In this way income and expenditure can function automatically in this situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. What I'm saying and what I'm up to is that it had nothing to do with the government's targeted economic policy. What the government simply did when the situation was over, with the pressure of the bow so high in the state budget that the government's financial policies had not kept at all any longer, was to create space by changing its targets. She didn't really turn anything into her spending plans. It continued to be the plans already set out in the budget of this government, the financial program that was presented to the criticism that it was based on all too optimistic factors and that were very floundering at a delicate point during the early years. That's fine to bear in mind, for the government has been very diligent in praising itself now for positive comments, that the narratives were not so positive in 2018 and because of the budget work before 2019. The government was being criticized for its irresistibly. It would have been preferable to be more careful in terms of growth in the first two years of this government so that some space would have been left for actual injections in public investments at the time of this colding, the downturn we are going through right now. It was totally predictable, and a number of reporters have repeatedly warned about it through all the financial and financial work of this government for the rest of this terms. This space is not there to consider how we should treat the public investment in general at the renovations of a government fund that we've been discussing before in this room, and I hope we'll proceed with a financial committee. However, it does not change that this amount of time that would have been so important to have a handsome way of throwing into public investments at this time simply because of the irresponsible economy of this government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u71	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I think we agree with each other on the economy, but we clearly understand how to approach our policy. We can agree, though, that it is important to build wood, especially in these times, to try to substantiate investments in these circumstances. I wanted to return to the government, economics, and calibres at the same time. A senator spoke about in his talk. I know we share in the belief that it is important to build on financial work, government budget and budgets to measure the efficiency and profit of investments and to measure the quality of the ministry. I'd like to ask you what. A senator explains the kind of landmarks and key numbers we are discussing. We are talking about traditional economists and so practical in terms of prosperity, education, health, etc. A senator refers to an increased standard? I think that's exactly what we need to do here, not just to a financial committee, but to the council. It acts in a way that surrounds public financial and economic matters. A senator entered his talk. I think this is a little project forward. We will so always debate political affairs about policy and ways when it comes to the implementation of state funds and on expenses and income. This is the question of measuring out on this job.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u72	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's question. I am a firm advocate of improving the vision when it comes to measuring the welfare of our community, not just on GDP or typical economic sizes, but on a measure of prosperity. I therefore rejoice in the advancement of the government in the process of extending that standard. We need to keep an eye on the health of the nation, the happiness of the nation, the balance of income and property composition and how the people in general are angry with each other in their daily lives. In this regard, it is extremely important to keep an eye on yourself. On the other hand, the things I really miss from the state's own budget are, of course, any efficient measure. There we can come up with how we're doing, for example. to perform the required services, whether there is a waiting list in the health system or community education requirements at any given time. Are we reaching out for the right education at any given time in relation to the demand? We've been talking years about the importance of industrial and technical education, but then even we have to turn people away because we can't give them school when the appeal finally answers the call. It's very serious. But we do not have a level of efficiency in the government business, either. I can give you an example. Looking at the current land hospital business in recent years, the production of the hospital according to standard corporate scales is falling. Similarly, as the amount of data published by the hospital itself increases, the number of visits does not seem to increase that much or the amount of work being done in the hospital. On such a simple scale, the way the hospital conducts is simply falling apart. These are the standards we need to monitor in general government. [[The president calls.]] Is the operation being done well enough? Is the amount of money offered to these important matters handled well?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u73	Mr. President. We are talking about the next last budget of this government, and the picture has become quite clear. There are two main challenges. First, the attempt to play two diesel categories together is a check for a position of quietness caused by either an empty compromise or a complete lack of ideas, unless both are. The government, which has made itself quite wide by talking about its entrance to the biographer agreements, will have a substantially lower salary rate than it was negotiated in our general labour agreements. In this way, the elderly and the poor will receive only a 3.5% rise, and the gap between the lowest pay scale and these people will continue to improve. That'll be 78,000 bucks. April 1, 2020, if I get it right. In fact, even the ideals for unemployment are thought of as temporary resources. The bill then only assumes that the increase in public workers will be about 3% that is considerably below the level agreed in the general market and may not maintain inflation and may result in loss of pay. However, if a higher salary is negotiated, it should be obtained within the seminary, and this will result in a loss of service to the public. In fact, that applies to the tax reduction as well as to the BSRB, with the permission of a president: The most important focus of the bill is the reduction in income taxation on individuals to be met with increased support and cut-offs in the state, as well as the financial degradation of the pay of public servants. We have this situation in the United States, and a number of sources warn that it could happen during the last councils, that since there was a follow - up policy in the unprecedented period of the last few years, instead of the digest, the welfare system may have to bear the weight of the decline that was inevitable to come sooner or later. That is exactly where we are today. In fact, I recall that the left green was completely compatible with our criticism. Granted, when the economy is cooling off, it is heavier now. In fact, during the unprecedented economic growth I spoke of earlier, nothing was encouraged to balance the situation in society, making the situation much more sensitive, especially for the ones left behind. But it would still be possible to right this position with the right government, and it would, of course, be necessary to do so. We are, in spite of all the 11 richest countries in the world, and we have one European record and one world record after another on a good average. But now it may be time to stop looking at them and start looking beyond the individual situation, how the quality of the individual, age, company, and even part of the country, if that is the case. We have malnourished income institutions that can correct this situation without nearly one person walking in the community. We can attack system reforms to prevent the collection of wealth in fewer and fewer hands. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson spoke earlier of the fact that tax policy is being maintained at the left of the board in 2009,2013. This is basically wrong. Thus, the 2013 regime,2016, overturned that system. She took the intermediate step from the three-stage system. She's laid off a wealth tax. It has progressively reduced resource costs, and this government has continued with it. But I agree with what. A senator would like to lower the insurance fee, and the United States has suggested that it reduces the size of SMEs to create diversity. Perhaps the past few days tell us that it is a fallback to trust too much in a giant business that really controls everything in society. We can create a system where 90% of the population don't have to pay any capital taxes. 90% of the nation will never have to pay any big tax. But why does the government find it normal for the 10% of those who receive the largest share of all capital incomes to be a lower percentage to me than average earners is a complete and complete mystery, especially when we watch that we have the lowest capital taxes in the North countries. That in the last ten years, which is twice as much as they have paid for access to the resource, there is no more to contribute to the community is also beyond my understanding. A financial minister told an interview about last weekend that he would not be disturbed personally if some were making money in the peddler's system. But it should be clear to everyone that the system that allows a number of people to build up a major thirst for all the resources of the resource is not merely serious but quite dangerous. Under its cover, a small number of individuals, and even those who have been in the field of employment, may find themselves in the various fields of employment. Then there should be some warning bells in a small community. This is not just my pessimistic forecast, but today we see examples of such enterprises owned by a small number of people who have a direct and indirect possession share in the marine environment, energy companies, shipping companies, fuel sales, daily markets, even newspaper editions. This fishing business has gained about 400 billion dollars in those years, almost half of the budget we are discussing today. Perhaps it would be unstable to remind another trip that the use of this most valuable resource will be lower than the price paid by tobacco users to pay on tobacco. Second, you are amazed at the small number of the fingerprints of the legislature committees on both financial and financial programs. Some would ask themselves, " What exactly is being held out a battle party, which, in fact, meets very often around the budget, if it makes little sense? ' Its primary purpose seems to be to come up here as government peakings and defend proposals as Ministers. For one thing, it may not be surprising that, in principle, government and government policy is together, but at present. I don't think it was the same initiativeless part of the budget board for years. It is not even a necessary increase in the district attorney and taxpayer's budget, both under pressure in this year's office, but should also be clear in view of the last few days that the office needs to be carried out in a very long, expensive, and extensive investigation. Then it's devoted to the highest. The secretary of finance will decide whether, when, and how much money will be put into these items from reserves. I think it's the height of sub-minential. The budget is to be stated - and indeed the district attorney has told what he needs. A majority of the budget committees are to agree with our proposal. Otherwise, most of the legal committees are most likely to protect us from coming to interviews in the near future and talking about the benefit of the council. As a matter of fact, it's almost rude to call in a few times for a client who puts out very thorough and thorough evidence and then does nothing to their words. In fact, it would be wise for a greater proportion of the budget to read the reviews that have been published in these last two, three years because of the direct warning against all the mistakes being made. Mr. President. We Icelanders are few, and all we can afford is for anyone who can ride on a tire, and of course we need to make it possible. We focus on the demographic changes that make less and fewer people equal to or more valuable creations in the years to come, and we will be desolated to maintain a high standard of living as we have now or better. We have certainly enjoyed with the EEA Convention that we have moved to Longevity or temporary people who have worked with us, play a major role in the interest of the past few years, and have made it possible for us to develop articles that Iceland does not seem to want to operate. I feel that as soon as I thank people for the extracurricular activity, it is sobering to note that the budget does not want to do so, just as it calls it, by placing more money in the studies of these offenses or on pay thefts, as ASI calls it. In fact, the total lack of vision and boldness that are exposed to these laws is particularly bad in times when the whole of our existence is becoming fundamentally modified by a new technology. We are watching that the ever - growing part of the world's production is digital and physically similar to the production we have so far used. There are so many things that tell us how important it is to prepare for the production and the articles based on intelligence and innovation, as well as, of course, the traditional companies that are creating enormous amounts of value from small ones, such as the pharmaceutical companies and others. That is why it is natural to be thrilled that the great offense announced in education was largely a declaration of self - education to the minister of education. Colleges that are already lacking do not get real increases, and many high school students see that their contributions actually went down. It can be noted, of course, that decommissioning a roof on reimbursement for research and innovation is another important step that the government should take because it is absolutely necessary in these matters. Then innovation, research and technology funds need to be far better equipped than they are today. In other words, in a time when we need to see that there is a growing age of young people who are creative, intelligent, and yet certainly are not responsible, there is no evidence that the government is thinking of such things. We simply need to build our jobs up with a greater variety of media, less building on prototypes, and to a much greater extent in innovation. Individual groups of the government may have higher goals than those of the budget, but they cannot avoid being participants. These categories are included in the compromises being made. In fact, I think that the Independence Party can best handle it because he controls the economy and he forces his right course. It said there was no cutting down. That's not true. It is the welfare services to carry the weight and heat if there is a cooling economy. I point out how conservative things are not only possible in this way of life. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson mentioned earlier, drawing together and saving. There is also a way to earn money. Finally, we can make good money without anyone in Iceland ever feeling it. They can drive their expensive cars and live in their big houses. There's no one else talking about it. But there is much to it if we are going to create a powerful, peaceful, and progressive community that no one will be left here under something that we have talked about in talks about being a minimum wage. Madam President. Here we need a new government, which has a vision but is guided by it. I hope it exists within two years. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u74	Madam President. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] First of all, I want to thank you for this discussion, not for those who are going through the side hall, but for the discussion that has been held in the Senate hall today, and I have observed with zeal. As soon as I thank you for the discussion, I realize how pointless it was. As was rightly said in a talk last night. The speaker bordered it on insult to call people for a financial committee to make them say something that is not to be done. Actually, I'd like to take it a little further because that's how I've had experience working on fund makings in an institution, in a ministry, and then here, even though I haven't been in bed. It's a legal committee. There is an enormous amount of work in preparing budgets in all of these places, and nothing is done with this work, not with any creation. And it is also true that we have an ambitious government, as it is currently seen, united in the soleness of sitting and constantly seeking the lowest thresholds to cross and to seek the media that are hairy enough to get what they want, i.e. That the Independence Party is engaged in the survival of the clinicalitarian and that the extreme enemy stands for military structure at the Cheflavor airport, so I will take only two very simple examples but very vivid. I've had speech with the highest. Secretary of finance now, in recent years, is linked to the laws. I'm sorry that the Secretary of finance isn't here. I know he's on duty abroad, but I hope that his ears and eyes are hopefully here in the area give him this message I was going to say to himself. We talked about the other day, me and the highest. The secretary of finance, the collection of state funds, and this was a reason that according to the Ministry of finance for my inquiry, approximately 80 billion bucks. in the economy, which is not paid by taxes. That's what I suggested in the talk we had at the highest level. Minister for the other day that there would be power in this matter. In fact, the media offered specific suggestions in this subject last year, which were, of course, dropped. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] V.E.G. The secretary of finance said that what he called the little ones or hers is also a coin. He made a little bit of Airbnb around. - There's still a scrap in a side room. He was groping over the success of bringing that activity under the tax service. Of course, I was very happy to hear the grandest. Ministers say this because I've been fighting for six or seven years that this was done, and now it was as blessed by the beast because of the highest power. Travellers, industrial and innovation ministers were effective last year and set out a special team to try to eliminate the greatest tax fraud in this operation. This activity has been successful, and in part this activity has been damaged, in fact, only one third of it is still under tax divorce. But then we had a little chat last night, me and the highest. Secretary of finance, since we were going over even. Suggestions proposed by the Central Party, both at 2nd. Which was the other day, and now again at 3. Um... and the highest. Secretary of finance felt shit to come. This would be talking about, as he said, 0.2% of the people we're trying to fight the booth he's been working so hard on for the entire financial Ministry time, and especially now for the last two and a half years, to bust out as much as possible. So when modest suggestions were offered to try to blow away his foolishness, he was rather downright down - with his height. The point is, however, that in the motions of the Central Party, the Ministry's economy is expected to be up to 1 billion dollars. It may be that the overall management business of the Council is around 30 billion, so it is not 0.1%, except at the highest level. The minister of finance has learned account at separate schools and on different grounds. In fact, it did. The minister of finance was so frustrated yesterday, perhaps because he was going to a meeting abroad, he was so frustrated that it was very difficult to deal with a place of words. But it is also worth saying that there has been an unfounded budget in Iceland since 2013 until now. Why? I think that's even. Because the council does not have enough access. - I'm gonna have to ask a president to reduce this splash in the side room. I think that's even. Because the budget has gone far from here by the Council that men are slow to react. I have every conviction to believe that. I wish that the council would have more access to the budget than to have the only event today. True, and I have commended it before and intend to do it again, the discussion in this winter with a whole other temper and much deeper than it has been in two years. But that doesn't make any difference because it's very traditional. As noted earlier, the Middle category contributes to the creation of a 3rd district. who are like you and me. ... about..about4.5 billion dollars, totaled with suggestions, all of them wise. I'll be surprised if I don't get the usual way that the greater part of the Council will offer all the suggestions, including the sensible ones the Central Party has proposed. Of course, I hope that reason is in the greater part of the world, but I'm not optimistic about it. It's, for example. one now that we entered between the 2nd and 3rd. and that's a suggestion for 200 million. K. it would be used to negotiate with private candidates for efforts to attack the waiting list for hip and joint replacement operations. For these 200 million, I guess you can buy some 150-170 operations, I believe, maybe more if you get a discount, I don't know. But this will cut the cow that is in the waiting list for this operation because it is still the same thing and there are about 1,000 people waiting, if we put together a waiting list for both hip surgery and knee surgery. It hasn't changed. Today, the archivist tries to drag all medical services into the land hospital that is already overworked. The hospital and its staff perform miracles every day, which is overworked. New projects are constantly drawn, now women's last research on cancer; breast exams should be held at the Land Hospital. In fact, I read a magazine the other day, and I'm going to read it again because I didn't believe that women ought to take a cervical sample themselves, just at home or at the clinic. I just can't believe it until I see it again. This service is being reassigned for decades. We are the least in better cases or in fewer cases, Mrs. President, having a history of cancer than we have ever had, so this is a surprising move. But this is what the Independence Party is doing in the government business. It's just terrible. But this may be an example of what I was saying earlier, that this cooperation brings the worst in the groups that are the dominant members of the government, unfortunately. That's why we're not expecting any good. It has been pointed out that we are in a bad situation because we have a down cycle and a state fund and a government budget does not expect it, nor do we agree with what could happen if the downturn becomes more difficult than expected. Now I'm not one of those people who believes that the mess we're watching is going to be a long time. I don't think it has to be because I think there might be a lot happening next time to fix it. But I don't doubt that especially for the next six months, i.e. the first six months of the next year, at least, will be quite difficult. That's why we came forward and now we're making 3. again, a proposal to reduce insurance costs to help mediums and small companies through this recession strengthens them to hire people because they have the drive. To be honest, people see the sense in this and agree to it. How are we going to finance this? Yes, by selling the hole out here at the docks that the Lands Bank had dug in empty wastelessness. The National Bank of Iceland has nothing to do with building a house, which is actually too big for it, on Iceland's most expensive property, nothing. This may be a vivid example. Although it's not a traditional government company, it may be a traditional thing -- because I don't want to say "queen," Madam President - about the way the booth works. When that is the case, politicians need to step forward and rule and make serious policy, not just take out some excel documents from the Ministry of Economics and put out as a financial bill at the Council, as is the major part being done now, without criticism, without question. In fact, only financial agencies should be here for an answer. They are, of course, the authors of this document and the main influences in it. And then we're like hens on a stick to make some point in this financial bill that we have nothing to do with and that we can't change if we're not able to change at all if we're in a position of government because it doesn't matter what has happened and it's smart and good, it's all taken care of us. Classic. The government was going to promote the council - that is, in the Treaty on the cover of the government, a government covenant for government, and the growth of the Generals. It's really getting worse for the Generals. We get to talk out in one, a little longer than last year. But there's nothing done with what we're doing, nothing. While it is good to speak good and explain good things so that the people know that there are wise suggestions to offer, tomorrow I will have faith at the call of names, most of these suggestions will be ignored, if not all. I look forward to tomorrow, Madam President. I want to see if there's any sense in the government. There are many spokesmen, and I hope that the chairman of a helpful and sensible financial committee will make sense to his own people and encourage them to support the practical suggestions offered by the middle class on the 3rd matter. and again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u75	A respectable president. We're in the 3rd. ... abundant. Fundamental bill expects a billion-dollar reduction in hunting costs, and at the same time we're talking about the profit of an Icelandic company on a very poor African nation, a nation so poor that there is a shortage of food because of drought. The numerator has a story that says, under the permission of a president: ▪ Alls is awaiting a 100 - case investigation by the local district attorney. There are about 60 of these taxes. The current number of employees is not sufficient to cover these research projects. He needs more workers to be able to care for more major research projects. And go on: A study of some 100 cases is conducted by the local prosecutor's office, which is considerably more than average, between 50 and 70. Of the 100 cases waiting for study, there are about 60 tax issues. The current headcount of the office is not sufficient to cover all the research projects it needs to deal with. As a result, District Attorney Ólafur Þór Hauksson has suggested that the number of staff in his field of research be increased by six at the beginning of 2020. In addition, he suggests that if the office's job position allows for it, the number of employees may be increased by two more years. This is shown in a memo that Ólafur has sent to the Ministry of Justice and RUS reports today. The average cost for each additional job is estimated to be 15 billion. K. And so the first increase would cost about 90 million. K.◯ The gigantism of the company involved, Samherja, in the last ten years, is over 100 billion, and it must say itself that if the company uses any of that money for bribes and tax collections, it will soon have to pay to make a lot of money for the sake of the prosecutor to get that money. I think it's the only right thing we can do, and so that we can also improve the interests of those who need it. Let us see how, at the same time, the Red Cross has a website called Sonar. You can't use it, because most people on disability get 214,519 bucks. a month after taxation. A large proportion of the older citizens of this country get 212,902k. paid to survive. At the same time it looks like this, this system has a diminished gigantian. Pension funds are reduced by 80% and 60% from unemployed, respectively. The difference lies only in the receiving of $25,000 a pensioner. Peasant markets. The serious thing is that at the same time we're putting this little money in, it's about 80% of their pensions are being cut off. 50,000 bucks. A pension fund yields 10,000 bucks. That's not enough, though. The most amazing thing about this system is that these pension payments, 50,000 bucks. which only return 10,000 credits, are also used to impair Christmas bonus and holiday replete at the same time as with the members of Congress, and others receive more than twice as much Christmas bonuses and multiply with desperate and pensioners without any impairment. All the cases involving disabled people and micro-organists are starving. Sadly, poverty - related causes and circumstances of disabled people have been left behind, as have a large number of poverty - related pensioners. It is very important, therefore, that this group of people especially be viewed as human rights, and that we be assured a community without discrimination, a society where disabled and long - suffering people have the right to life to the same extent that others have. To that end, a significant increase in funding is to be expected into all kinds of cases involving disabled people. In the budgetary bill, little has been taken into account in the case of poorer and older citizens. There is only a 3.5% increase in pensions, and pay is not controlled, as should be done according to the 69th grade. Social Security Act. This article clearly explains the benefits of social security, by permission of the President: Their decision should take into account pay development, although it will never increase less than the prices of the index price. Why do we not apply the simple 69 C.E. paragraph? a law we've approved at a council? This should be considered in terms of pay development, although improvements will never increase less than the prices of the dierent price. That's clearly in the law. If this were followed, the situation would be much better for micropigs today. They would not always be left behind, but they are to be left behind for another trip. We're talking about a very small rise up ahead. We're talking about 8,651 k. on unmoved pension, i.e. 247,000 p.m. per month of 255,834 k. for tax. We need to realize that from 2009 to 2018, incessant biofuels have risen about 85,000, minimum wage of about 143,000 bucks. and the total pay of a full - time employee of about 256,000, but the total income is only about 106,000. Time and again, it is at the expense of disability. Thus, tax changes in the government and their provision will only increase by 582k. every month, i.e. 6.984K. every year. The financial bill further says that a new tax system is in their interest, and it will greatly reduce the tax burden of low income and middle income groups. The impact of tax changes for micro-energy donors and others with very low income incomes is negligible. These are striking numbers, and it's frightening to think that there's a talk, and it's a great idea that pensioners are getting an increase in personality discounts of 582 k. per month. If a income-free market had increased, according to the 2009 increase in remuneration, the pay market would be 207,000 dollars. a month instead of 109,600. This isn't supposed to change--yes, maybe 2020. At the same time, however, the growth of disability has been greatly slowed as a percentage of the population, with a reduction of 9.9% to 9.8% this year. The government has offered tens of millions of dollars for the growth of disability. Is it not, then, enough money to make good money for a pensioner? No. I can't help but wonder what's wrong in the soul of a government after a government that's been in power and can be motivated to cut down a Christmas bonus, cut off holiday support by a pension fund that's already been cut off. I'm shocked and I'm so offended that it's this way. At the same time, we watch what they're paying for a Christmas bonus. Pensions received 43,000. 2018, with 89,000 Kingdom workers, with 81,000 jobseekers, and even with unemployed, nearly half that number are available. It's $181,000 for us senators. - Almost 200,000. It is important to keep in mind that only a part of a pensioner receives December and holiday supplementation because they are calculated as a share of income insurance and household satisfaction, while only about 29% of micro-energy pensioners are paid for household support. Pensions don't pay holiday and December. So a part of a pension fund is not getting any or very limited December or holiday support. It is not enough that pension workers will have to calculate the declines that occur within the insurance institution, they also have to calculate the declines that occur in the rural areas. We live in an amazing system of chain-mortem impairments, apparently the sole purpose of reducing the benefits of disability and pensioners. Then we also have an amazing system that has surprised me and that is, in effect, a major disgrace, and that is impairment of population. In 2017, 92 pensioners had an total of 80,000 dollars. per month. How on earth can we do this? How can we say, "Hey, you're supposed to live at 80,000." a month? How tragic it is to know that funding has reached 1,000 billion and that it has always been said that when it comes to good health, older citizens, disability, and low-payers will get their compensations and promotions! V.E.G. In his speech, the minister of finance spoke of the value of wages that had never been greater. People who are on the lowest pay and pay and in pension don't buy money. They don't know about the power of purchase. They don't get the power. Therefore, it is shocking to speak of money giving to all. He does not, and it is a serious matter when those who do not share it here are given a false hope. Then the identity discount should be reduced by 5,000 k. With one hand, we lower the person's discount but with the other hand take it back. With one hand, we give a lower tax percentage, but with the other hand we remove it and this is by lowering the person's discount. Let's at least give it a chance. The character discount is. It would have been a great step just to let him stay or raise him according to a consumer calculator number as to be done. No, that's way too much for this government. This had to make sure that those who had least received their food rations did not receive them. Who does that? This government. Sadly, in most cases, the overall pay amount of pay is not to be determined due to the deterioration in the postmenopausal period. I think that's a violation of human rights because their right payments were corrected a year later. No, however, it does not. I can't believe we're allowed to have the system like this, that someone has $350,000. the total monthly pay per year, and then the same year goes down and it doesn't show up in a tax report. Did it come out somewhere? No, that's how they hide the performances, which sucks because there's no need to do anything except show the numbers in real time, they're supposed to figure out some real-time benefits. And it is surprising that even financial ministers agree with that. Our medical system is in total paralysis, and we are not even going to do this financial bill to make sure that hospitals and emergency departments can function properly. The pressure is increasing, and we need to find money. Going to the emergency room is a life-threatening thing. Then there is the attic, and there is physical therapy. It is a serious matter that the network of physical therapists has been destroyed. I feel that the incidence of disability has come to a large extent because the poor who previously could not afford the medical system could consult a physical therapist. Also, there are people out there who can't afford to see a doctor, can't afford to have a doctor's examination, or can't afford a prescription. The worst case I've ever seen is that a married couple both in need of a lot of drugs land at the same time in the publication of a drug pay period. Then they will have to go to the expense of tens of thousands of dollars that they do not have. What are these people supposed to do? It's amazing that at the same time as this is going on year after year, as shown by the majority opinion that I understand, the design of such a thing is being made. 82 million. K. addition for the National Church, contribution for remuneration and prices. Why don't you make such a contribution for an invalid? What would it be like to make a donation for the pay and prices of disability and sensibilities... or a donation to pay and insurance policy changes... due to a land hospital ◯ University's Hospital? Things are getting worse because there are not enough money to cover the pay. Then I'd like to point out a new proposal to the 2018 bill as a group of the people, the United States, and the Pirantar. It asks for an increase in older citizens' compensation and disability according to the biographer contract or the lowest salary. It's kind of weird, if you think about it, that you need to make this effort, and what's even more surprising about this is that it's gonna be canceled, that it can be cut out, and that there's a way to figure out, and that there's a lot harder than your legs, that a certain group should just do so well and live on a much smaller amount of living than normal. I ask: How on earth can you make such an effort?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u76	Madam President. Two years ago, the television news program was on the program with a feature on fishing the resource, contact with it, and supervision. Many things appeared there, even in the past. was there an interview with a fishing manager who said that a fish lab could not do its legal work because of lack of money and that it had been reported to the Ministry. As a result of these factors, I wrote a request, and I had enough senators with me to agree, to check the weight check, at sea, etc. Ask Public Review to take it all out. This was done well by Our Kingdom Review, and this year a report was delivered in January. By permission of the president, I will read the key conclusions of this report: ▪ On the basis of the data obtained by the National Reexamination Study, it is clear that marine water resources monitoring is limited and that this will be of limited doubt. A national accountant suggests that there will be a clear demand for a position to weigh and control the authorities. The need to investigate whether to transfer the weight to seafront under the custody of the Fish Room and to increase the number of surveillance units in the GAM. The monitoring of an outcast is weak and irreverent. There are no clear targets of success or success measures. A government accountant will test to see if there can be an improvement in the cooperation of Fishing House and National Reservation in the monitoring of an outcast. This means increasing the presence of patrolrs on board fishing vessels and looking for technical technologies in monitoring. It cannot be seen that the use of feeders to determine whether the control of linked bodies in the seas over fiscal sectors is in line with the maximum defined in law No. 116/2006, about the control of fishing. Review of paragraphs 13 and 14. The law of the law has to do with the ordinances of both authority and contact so that careful monitoring of the integration of resources can be ensured. A member of the National Research Centre calls attention to the importance of having the necessary resources and resources to monitor effective and effective measures in the anticipated pharmacodynamic and protective effects. The aims of monitoring in the Fish Room must be clearly defined, and the necessary measures taken to achieve them are taken. This conclusion cannot be misunderstood by a government accountant. The entire report was very black, and it was very clear that our fishing resource is under control, and our fish clinic is very weak. But what does the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter do? It suggests an absolute reduction in donations to Fish Room between 2019 and 2020, an increase of 1.7% that does not even keep up with inflation. If we continue our financial study program, there is simply a decline between 2020 and 2021. It's really amazing, and you just don't understand what's going on here. The fishing operation is to be weakened, although this is obvious, has been proved by careful reports, as well as by the need for additional funds. Granted, a management team is working to review the points mentioned in the report, but it has not returned the results. I'm sitting in that control group myself. However, the results of this control group will be the same as they will be, the results of Kingdom Review are complete. More workers are needed, more hands are needed on deck to monitor our fish resources. Therefore, in the United States, we suggest that the body of Congress agree to further budgets for Fishing Offices, working with budgets for 2020. That is a clear subject of interest, especially in the recent news that also came through the Live-In-The-Wall News article. This has also been discussed on how to handle the major issues raised with the Samherjaate documents. Clearly, a very complex study needs to be started that will reach many countries. It's going to extend to banking, to a study of bribes, even to money launderers, tax evasion and taxpayers. There's complicated transfers. It is known that this will be a complex investigation and that our services need to be funded to care for it. We in the United States say it again because the rest of the party submitted the proposal at 2nd. Although it is obvious and obvious that the office needs increased funds. In fact, the District Attorney Ólafur Þór Hauksson has reported how much he needs. I'd like to quote a story on RUS's website earlier today, Madam President. It says: ▪Ólafur Þór Hauksson, the district attorney, suggests that the number of staff in the field of research will be increased by six at the beginning of the next year. Although this is minimal growth, Ólafur suggests that two more workers may be increased in later stages if a chemical site warrants a position to be thought to be. This is shown in the report by Ólafur Þór to the Ministry of Justice given to a news agency. The point of the memo is the discussion of the Samherian language and its effect on the office's post. The government agreed at its meeting on November 19, to take special note of the funding of a regional district attorney in connection with a federal investigation of the Samherja case. Two days after that meeting, Ólafur Þór Hauksson, a district attorney, sent a note to the Ministry of Justice. A few days later, the memo came to the secretary of finance who discussed it at a meeting yesterday. The Samer language is not specifically mentioned in the memo, but Ólafur Þór says that the current number of workers is not enough to handle all the research projects that are available to the office. Ólafur says that the estimated average cost per job is about 15 million and the total cost is about 90 million. He says that there are a number of big, heavy economic crime cases, or waiting for an investigation. There are about 100 studies, but in average, 50 to 70 cases. Of the 100 cases waiting for study, there are about 60 tax issues. Madam President. The Commission is still investigating the Panama Documents that occurred three years ago or so. The report continues: It Ólafur says that the growth of workers and the growth in the office of financial analysis by police leads to more analyses from there to the field of research that needs to be investigated. Hart was attending Bjarni Benediktsson, secretary of finance, at the General Assembly yesterday for financing of the local district attorney's office in connection with the Samaritan case. Because of his intention to take up a reserve to strengthen his office if necessary, the members of the government accused the Bjarni of violating public financial laws. Madam President. I think it's clear to everyone that unless the budget is approved for 2020, if there's not enough money to provide increased financial contributions to predictable research in 2020, it's just that some reserve is being killed. I'm sorry that the shape of the failure of the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter when it comes to these issues is not even possible to make sure that the district attorney and the tax investigator have enough funds to investigate. It is referred to as a reserve, but if it is to happen, it is a violation of public financial law, which is known to those sitting at ease. It's a legal committee. At the very least, a budget to be given to stewards can require that the minister make a plan and make a suggestion that will be agreed on in legal matters. The other is willing, and this is the responsibility of the administrative committee. Hopefully, the administrative body changes its mind and proposes tomorrow's release of budgets for 2020 or agrees with the Continental proposal. Madam President. Time is running fast, and now I want to mention the big move from the United States of America, The Piranha and the Gang of the People that meet the insistence that there will be no one under the minimum wage. The people who have to trust in pension pay have not chosen their lot, and it is us, the lawgiver and the government, who are to protect that group. Left green was the view of 2015 that it should be an ambitious government business to improve the quality of disability and older citizens. For a discussion on budget 2015, e.g. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Prime Minister, then in a position of government, under the adjustment of a smaller section of the budget committee for raisings in accordance with newly established labour agreements and saying, on permission of the president: And that's why I'm agreeing with the smaller parts, which will only put the change in order for poorer and elderly citizens to be elected at least comparable to the terms they are at, which, in fact, have been the lowest in the community, and the benefits are going to be repetitive, as expected on the public market. These groups have not chosen their lot, and it should be our pleasure to live decently with them. Madam President. I agree with the word as the highest. In 2015, the prime minister reported on this symposium. In 2011, at the national agreements of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, the company decided that the poorer and older citizens would receive similar compensations, which were negotiated between ASI and SA, but the government of Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, pardons the suicide agreements, leaving the poorer and the older citizens behind. Left greens have changed their mind and have come to agree with the independents and forwarders when it comes to the ideals of disability and older citizens and the equal positions of people in Iceland. There are too many people who have to support themselves at 248,000 dollars. a month, and that's a long way below minimum wage. The tax change to be taken into account is 2020 associated with the biographies; this group only delivers 1777 k. for an increase of months. The increase in pensioners on January 1 according to the budget is 3.5%. The government wants those who rely solely on payment from a insurance agency to raise to less than 256,000. month next year. In comparison, the biographies have the lowest pay sheet since April 1, 2019 317,000 dollars. of month and of April 1st 2020 341,000k. in a month and, if per insurance insurance, about 335,000 bucks. per month. The difference between the minimum wage and the next year's pay will be 80,000 dollars. per month. This is what we do to the world's 10th richest nation, the state of VG, the forwarding party and the Independence Party. Madam President. I am truly ashamed to tell you for the government's policy to keep the poorest people in Iceland, people who have not chosen that position, people who trust in us here to get a decent, poorest of all. There's a gap between them and the people on the minimum scale. The government and the government groups should be ashamed to pat up the biography agreements, but leave the poorest people, the people we in this room, to provide a decent vote. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u77	Madam President. After a surprising growth in tourism during the past few years, growth rate is slowing down and the number of tourists this year is estimated to be at a reduced rate of 15◯17%. Travel has done a great deal for the economy in recent years, and in fact, the interest rates of the years have been maintained since collapse. The country has much to do with travel services, and it is important to support the article as much as possible. This reduction in tourists is likely to be particularly difficult for those who should be least affected, and the areas outside the capital could certainly receive more visitors. It is evident, therefore, that areas should be much higher in the marketing work financed in part or in all respects by public funds. This is important in the situation that shows that foreign markets and market development will continue safely. Sadly, contributions to the sector of tourism are dropped by 270 million. K. or 12.8% from the 2019 budget and no topic range declines equally. True, much of the reduction was explained by the decline in the use of air development funds, but it would have been better if the funding had been new to the seminary rather than taken out of it as this has been suggested. If so, it is equally important that the place be a guard for flight development funds in budgets for the next year. Experience in other countries shows that opening new ports is a long run that needs tools, such as Air Development Fund. It is also important that areas around the EU airports at Egls and Akureyri continue to receive special financial support for marketing and development of direct-related international flight growth. From flight development to destination development. There is no way to see that extra funds are being expected for the travel agency in the financial bill. During the past two years, regions in cooperation with a tourism agency have been working on destination plans and were looked forward to establishing destination rooms that would have the responsibility to carry out their destination plan. A large report was prepared for a travel agency on different stages around the world. Since that report was published earlier this year, little has happened. What you're afraid of is that there will be one more report that will be drawn into a drawer. Also, there is concern that big decisions will be made without real consultation with the national parts, which would be most unfortunate for the future of the project. Hopefully, though, that won't be the case. Madam President. In this context, the agreements of the market room for the rest of the country with the Travel Office date to the end of 2020 and to the end of the year 2020 have not yet been established. The same can be said of a travel information system, but funding will not be available to information centres in 2020, and it is still unclear what to do and who to do information systems for tourists. Such uncertainty is not good, and it puts those involved in building tourist attractions in a very difficult situation. Much work is now being done on the definition of sustainable indicators, called the balance river of tourism, which sets up a vision and a guide for travel to 2030. The shape of action is being developed, and it is extremely important to know how to finance the needed actions. We have a unique opportunity to build tourism throughout the country in all communities, large and small, promoting structure and quality of life. It is very important that our individual opportunities not be lost because of the uncertainty of the funding of the relief projects needed there. Finally, I'd like to discuss a little something new and their status in Iceland. Recently, the results of Daði Daled Már Kristófersson were published on research contributions and innovations from parts of the country that he worked for the Scientific and Technical Council. It makes it clear that a great palace in the region outside the capital area, though there is a real difference between parts of the country. 90% of the research donations and innovations flow to the capital area. Prominent prime minister's reaction was that it was the obligation of the government to build up scientific and innovation throughout the country. Therefore, the management board must ensure that equalities in the opportunities to work in the supportive environment and that organisations in all regions are equipped with staff which can assist with applications in research and innovation funds. Despite the 2% increase in funding for the 2018 New Creation Centre, the situation is that the centre has, for example, reached its centre. not with an employee in the East to support pioneers in the national part of the country. In fact, while the number of workers in the capital area has increased in the capital area, the number of them has decreased in recent years. Madam President. There is all evidence to suggest that there are significant changes in the environment of the pioneers and wands in the country in terms of access to developing concentrations and support environment funded by public sources. The amount of money on the ear marked on the budget is very small in terms of a variety of communities, including the U.S. East, and it's totally unacceptable. It is also completely unacceptable that the State inhibits the clean and direct structure of rural companies by not inviting them to sit at the same level when it comes to the distribution cost of electricity and transport. Madam President. This needs to be changed, and unfortunately there is no indication that it should be done in the budget, which is extremely disappointing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u78	Madam President. So far, the person currently does not have an active involvement in discussions about the government's budget. There are two simple reasons why. First, I see that our Pirata suggestions, as well as our other minorities, are as good as never supported by most of the council and are considered pointless to be here with suggestions known to be of no interest to listen, let alone agree. In fact, when most parts feel that a certain need is needed and good, he suggests the suggestion and then suggests his own suggestion, which sounds as good as exactly as the same, so that the smaller part gets nothing. Second, it is so. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson is our financial guardian of Pirata, and we, like many members of the council, make a distinction according to each of our strengths. But I have to come up to 3rd. The budget for 2020 to bring up the funding of key institutions, which certainly hear under both my field of interest as well as my field of work. These are the various surveillance institutions we rely on to ensure that the laws and regulations and treaties that we live in are in harmony with. I'm talking about institutions that make sure that everyone pays their share to the community in the form of taxes, such as, for example, taxes. The head of the taxpayer and the taxpayer, and the agencies that monitor business and financial markets depend on the principles that apply to them, such as the SEC. These are institutions to investigate and monitor every sort of economic offense, such as the local prosecutor's office and the office of special prosecutors of ancient times. Here I am referring to institutions acting as members of the Parliament's trustees, such as the Generals' agent, who will see to it by the council that the execution of the Commission respects the rights of the citizens, now or the National Accounting that will ensure that the funds of the state are properly handled. Of course, I am required to name the police, which in general shall be held by law and order, along with the prosecutors and the courts of this country. Then there are specialized surveillance institutions that play an important role, such as Peritoneal protection, which should ensure that our right to privacy is respected, or all other institutions, such as Fish Labs, which are to care for the nation's interests on the responsible use of marine and water resources, and a marine research agency to be ensured, e.g. Through research into fish stocks, we do not overwalk on these same resources. A respectable president. I'm coming up here because all the important organizations I've listed and I'm supposed to have everyone sitting at the same table, that we're paying a fair share to the community that brought us up, that we go to the law that the City Court gives, that the rights of the citizens are respected, have really never received the funding and support that they need to play their important role. There's nothing different about this bill than the various financial bills of the past few years. There is no room for improvement, and many of these institutions are making it very difficult for them to do their jobs because of lack of resources and resources. In other words, their appearance is always very narrow. From 2013 onward, it seems to me that a gross budget has been made for the main government's agencies. Progress, i.e. when it is calculated by the price of each year, it will be replaced. They are not growing, and they never seem to me to be sure that they can work in the best possible way. The natural question is, How well do we want to do with these organizations? The idea that we are beginning to feel normal, e.g. The police are always subversive and unable to care for all the tasks they face because they have just been there for so long. In this context, I would especially like to discuss the ability of these institutions to take part in the initiative. By taking the initiative, I mean their ability to handle matters on their own and to monitor the factors they should monitor. Consider some examples. The secretary of the Generals has repeatedly told us at the council that he lacked additional funds to take care of his initiative, he does not have the staff to do so. In spite of this, the greater part was unable to support our Porta's proposals for increased financial resources for the General agent so that he could employ two employees in the initiative. Yet, this is a client of the Parliament, whose name we have to name, to protect the rights of the citizens from the efforts of the European Commission. The role of Perlon protection has become far more important in society after approval of personal protection laws here this year, but there is still an addition of a document to the Agency's management budget, despite its responsibility for monitoring all offenses against personal protection in the country. There's a lot of work to be done here. Personal protection was a long - term budget for many years, so much so that the EFTA Institute of Observation saw a reason to threaten the United States because the Agency could not do any of the initiative. When it comes to protecting against money laundering, it has become very obvious, following the fact that Iceland was put on FAFF's list of noncooperative states, that in Iceland, there were almost no defences against money laundering. The amount of money was simply not spent in maintaining effective monitoring of potential money-sustaining data. According to a recent study of the reactor, in the summer of 2015, one man in the office of financial analysis of a police known as a money - disposal office before being boarded by a local district attorney that year. This is explained in the core by permission of a president: In April 2018, the International Action Board (FATF) followed a drop-off of Iceland's financial defenses on the report that was published in April 2018. Budgets have been put in order to buy information systems to receive and keep track of reports of money thefts and monitoring of activities within the banks themselves has been enhanced. However, its induction is not fully completed, and it is not expected to run out until the next year. Imagine that today our surveillance agencies do not have the systems they need to accept reports of possible money nonsense. You'd think we'd be living here in 1995. It did not end in preventing the gray arts that all too late was in the butt to make sure there was a sufficient monitoring of money laundering in Iceland, and it's not yet arrived. In fact, the same can be said of the office of local prosecutors who witnessed nearly 750 million. K. cutoff in 2013 and now requesting additional advance for six employees before 2020 and hoping that the government will accept it because the Agency will not be able to verify it in the budget of 2020. Perhaps a district attorney will have to wait nine months to make money from the highest level. Secretary of finance, like a tax investigator when she asked for financial contributions to purchase data on Iceland's property in taxes about a year ago. Of course, I hope they don't have to wait as long in that town, a respectable president. By the way, the district attorney is technically seeing the only office in Iceland that has some kind of jurisdiction over political corruption in Iceland. We have no agency, no department, no specialized members in the management board that monitor political corruption while it does not express itself almost specifically in the fact that the Globeist and manager are divided by money in a brown envelope in an alley, which appears to be the only definition which raises some kind of desire to investigate possible corruption in Iceland. So let's not forget about Fish Room, a respectable president, since I mentioned it for the occasion. What we know, by permission of the President: ▪ During the period in which serious comments are made on the performance and performance of the Fish Service to address their work and enforce the rules of fish control can also be read in the 2008 report, a 24 percent reduction in the number of state re-examinations I quote at the end of 2017 only 22,⇩. The above report National Review of Fish Room status, published after the strange unexplained transfer of the Agency to Akureyri this year, states: ▪ Fishing, deportation, and fiscal compression do not provide adequate support to the aims of aquaculture management and to adapt the contact of marine crops. In nature, monitoring is difficult to carry out, and it focuses on activities with great interests involved. It will be noted that the directors of Fish Labs believe that the Agency is and has been sub-discovered by the number and scope of monitoring projects. Similarly, the staff of the Marine Research Agency recently declared that existing cuts and reports would make the Agency significantly more difficult to do their important work. A respectable president. I ask myself regularly why the governments of this country do not want these institutions to function as they should. I ask myself, " Why were there defenses against money bullshits not okay for more years? ' I ask myself, " Why do we have no organization to investigate corruption? ' I'm asking why we don't want the district attorney to have permanent funds to prevent breaking up like the one that shows up in the Samherja files or Panama papers, as we see over and over here. I ask myself that question, " Is it possible for some to continue making money during the day and to barbecue at night? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u79	Madam President. It's about to be about three o'clock. About the budget of 2021 and a lot of people. Congress officials have established that a considerable amount of work is involved, and they have put a lot of effort into it. Many things have been discussed today, and it is evident that not everyone agrees or feels the same way about where we are headed in the financial affairs. I mentioned 2nd. Several things I thought were especially reason to keep in mind, a subject I would have at least I often wondered if it should have been different from the one we ended up with. I also mentioned factors that I think are a major improvement. In this financial bill, we actually continue on the course that the government has been on for the past two years, and this is a third of the budget. It continues to be added to infrastructure. They continue to add aspects of social matters that are of great importance to society. Contrary to what may have been heard during the discussion, all during the reign of this government, there have been significant increases in such factors as health and social matters. We expect next year to begin the prolongation of the birthworm, which may be one of the largest social benefits the government has ever made. We wondered, " Is the way we're going on the prolongation of the birthworm, as the senators know, by dividing it in this way the right way, i.e. to begin by adding with a method that has been called four, four, two. There have been other advances, but this is probably the one we can prefer to agree with. The discussion has helped us to understand that we are reducing donations to a land hospital at ▪ a university hospital. People have even. asked that projects are slowing down and 3.5 billion that are being moved from year to year are likely to reduce projects and not be completed at the same time as planned. The information we have from a new hospital, however, is that these changes are primarily because projects have been delayed by what can be called normal reasons and are not available to reduce the completion of the work at the right time. This is important to the whole health system. Once the land hospital has been built in the form we plan to be expected to be substantially saved by having all emergency departments and all emergency services in one place, thus achieving substantial benefits. In fact, it may be fun to assume that when you were contemplating the original building on Ring Lane, you found that just by having most of the Land Hospital in one place, the cost of construction would be saved at about one place. 1,960 years, a major investment for the entire population, and so do not talk about those who use the ministry or those who work at the Land Hospital. Of course, health care is more than just hospital service. We've talked about it since this government took over a significant matter that we try to direct our ministry to the most acceptable stage of public interest. In this eye, donations have been directed to the health care sector and have been increasing during the terms of the election, including the patient's health care programme. By building up the development center of the medical facility, which performs a variety of development projects for that fine service. There have been significant improvements in psychological services and so on. This is all about when we see that we have also established health policies that will then, together with the emphasis we have on finance, making sure that our health care is gradually directed on the direction and direction that is most practical. There is no doubt that a health - care system with a strong and strong health care system is far more reasonable and more efficient than direct people into expensive services in early stages. We are in these funding to take on an important step in the way that this government has been taking. Of course, not all are finished and not all factors have been turned to the right place. But it's taking a step in that direction, and I think it would be wise for us to continue to add to these classes we've been doing, especially health care, social systems, and then now in the construction of the infrastructure as it is currently available. I look forward to the vote this morning and will be thrilled when it comes to votes with this financial bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u80	Mr. President. That talk was very interesting in the 3rd district. From a senator, but fine for his hat. I want to ask you why. A senator how he likes the trouble I want to call so, when it comes to the district attorney and the tax investigator and how the budget board is somehow out of control when it comes to the highest level. The secretary of finance says that he intends to use just some reserves for this and do so after a convenient time when the development of a major and complex investigation. The district attorney has included Said he couldn't handle it unless he had a few more employees, and there are 100 cases at his table and 60 of them are taxable, and I'm told that some of them are from Panama, which is a description of the office's status. If the office is not funded, some other matter must be dismissed that will come to an end. It can be very convenient and good for some, but that is not how we want our systems to work. That's what I'm talking about. The senator didn't agree with me that the right way would be to plan a certain amount for the office to handle the additional load in 2020, make a suggestion before the council, and get approved?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u81	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a Oddný G.. It's a Harðardóttir kid. I don't agree with the senator that there's a special problem going on. However, I agree with the senator that the matter she mentioned, the Group case, is absolutely unprecedented, and it is a shock to Icelandic society to have a case like that. Now, the investigation is being started by a special prosecutor and that I'm separated from a tax investigator, and, of course, it's likely, we can say at this moment, that someone's going to work. But I'd like to agree with what's even happened. Show earlier in the discussion that it is very important that the Council does not comment directly, let's say, that as a financial authority, we expect the court to investigate certain matters. The request must always come from the court: We are drowning in work or we have a lot of work to do, so we need to ask for more money. However, it has also been pointed out in our discussion that these institutions we referred to have considerable financial resources. Now I'm not on a budget myself, but I understand this is from 5 billion in all this three office has of money and over 300 employees. [[The president calls.]] In the early stages and in the absence of a request to the committee, I do not know if the committee should run to and determine the budget. [[The president calls.]] The path that has been mentioned might be, at least at this point, more reasonable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u82	Mr. President. Sounds like it. A senator that he does not know about the memo provided by the district attorney to the Ministry of Justice and went from there to the Ministry of Economics and is known of his request and evaluation of the office's office. But let it lie in between things. Mr. President. I'd love to, if you know what I mean. A senator looked forward as much to vote on the United Nations proposal for increased funding to these offices as is currently known and for the request, etc., and he claims to look forward to paying his budget vote, which he assumes will be tomorrow and he will be very happy and proud. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he is proud of how he works. Governments and government officials leave the poor and the elderly in this bill. We, the lawgiver, accept the approval of those who have not asked to be in their position. There are too many of our poorest people who have to rely on insurance agencies and pay them and have to live at 248,000 bucks. per month. The biographer contract assumes that the lowest pay scale is 317,000. During 2019 and the lowest remuneration measures will increase to 341,000 from April 1 next year to 335,000. The difference is tens of thousands, and the gap between those who have to rely solely on the payments of an insurance agency and the lowest pay grade is 80,000. in 2020. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm talking about. A senator proud of this, and will he be happy when he press the yes-button, with a 3% rise to this group? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u83	Mr. President. Of course, I am aware of the speculations and the talks received from the district attorney for consultation, that as I understand it came in the media today, but as far as I know, this has not been addressed to the Committee. The Senator may know more about it than I do. Regarding what the senator considered, whether we were doing well with the elderly and desperate, I covered it, both in my talk to the 2nd. And, as it is now, that we have not come all the way. We have not done everything, but much has been done. It is a step in this year to reduce the rate of disability in micropigs, there have been steps in reducing the payment of the elderly and the disability of the elderly for health services, and, of course, the elderly and the poor will, like others, at least. those who have a salary or a compensation will benefit from the changes in tax. The change will be most in the lowest pay points, the rate of taxes will be higher there. No doubt this is of any importance to us. But I agree with what. A senator, of course we need to do better, and we need to take further steps in the coming years, and this government has declared that it will continue on its way. I believe, however, that it is an eternity project, and the senator will undoubtedly agree with me on this, to continue to improve the welfare of society, and to improve the benefits of those who have least in the community. I mean, we've been taking progressive steps in that direction, so we're going to move on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u84	A respectable president. Money requests come to the branch office, they are sent directly to consult with the message sent to those who make the request that it pass through the Ministry. That's why this is a memo mentioned here at Minister of Justice, at the Ministry, on the correct course. But it has not been received from the council or the government into the budget board, so this request has stopped in the government, that it lacks financial resources to care for the work of the district attorney and others have made a comment. It is not up to them to send in a request for money. They're just doing this right, they're sending out to the council members who can tell us - because they've got all the segregation on the money we don't get - how we're going to do it, and then we're told at Congress that there's enough money to do this, but we don't see him anywhere. We try to ask: Wait, how does that match with everything else we see here and are being told by reserves and the like? It doesn't fit. So when it comes to a financial request to the council that doesn't send it to the budget committee, there are clearly some problems we face and interesting to get an explanation. Why does the government stop this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u85	Mr. President. Now I don't know any more than what. A senator for what reasons may have been the subject of a request that I do not really know on what day came to the Ministry, has not arrived for the financial committee, or will it arrive there? What I know, however, and I've heard in the discussion, just like what I heard. A senator is that because of the financial requests this year, there are still funds in reserves to cope with this year. For the next year, I'll be able to at least... not to say at this point how much money will be needed. But you're right about what you're talking about. A senator says she'll be doubtless, but exactly who she'll be, I don't know. I am afraid to tell if the Ministry will evaluate it as soon as the year goes by and when there is more information on how much money is needed or if a reserve will work or what. I just don't have the nerve to do it. However, I believe all that has been said here that both institutions will have sufficient privacy within their sources to set aside funds for specific research and to reiterate what I said earlier, that it should not be the role of the Senate to decide in advance before any request is made. We want a specific organization to investigate each specific subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u86	A respectable president. It's not about the particular thing. This is about the content of the memo saying that it lacks six or eight employees to cope with overall stress and regardless of individual issues. It is very clear that a senator claims to have no idea and unable to answer this, for in general this applies to the financial bill, it is just completely disagreed. Do we really know that money is missing or that there is room for what it is and what is involved? I guess not. Something else I'd like to ask you. Because he spoke of the new hospital and construction there: Now we're looking at 5 billion sides of the budget for this building. There is no evidence that this will be less expensive or more expensive, more likely, because it does not involve reinventing in older buildings, so that it will then be taken any further cost. But now it has brought 5 billion - 1.5 billion 2019 and 3.5 billion in the following year - and we are told at the same time that this work should not be delayed. All it tells me is that there's a gap that's being shifted, both this year and 2020, that contains a projection vector. If you look at the surface, you can continue to work a lot of it, even if it's just finishing up in the treatment core. It would tell us that if we carried out the same commission, the project could be completed sooner and the cost could be met. In his talk, a senator spoke about the possibility of reaching out for this new assignment. It's been admitted to us that it could be finished until it's not done. More stress is being added in recent years, and we know that more stress and projects can result in greater costs or delays.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u87	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. It is true that no matter what we call it, there has been a renovation for the Land Hospital. I have said that now and also in my talk to the 2nd. I don't think it's right. However, it is not for reasons that we, in itself, can help in other ways than the delay of projects. At any rate, it is the information we receive from the presidents of the New Land Hospital. But it is true that pushing the project ahead of us could be said, as with most of the things you delay the more you push a project ahead, the more likely it will eventually delay the end of the project. You're absolutely right. But at any rate at this point, while we have no other information than those we receive from a new hospital, I see no reason to challenge it. It can also be wondered whether national interest is even good at trying to spread such an enormous project over a longer period of time. But that's a whole different story again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u88	Mr. President. By the end of this 3rd envelope, it's falling apart. of budgets for 2020, and I have to say that despite being a member of the Parliament with fine tribunal experience, it has been interesting to follow a bill for financial purposes ever since it is submitted and until it reaches the 3rd. Through work on a budget board, where I'm sitting for the first time. I'd like to start by saying that a whole lot, I'm happy about these budgets. They deal with relevant issues. It is being added to places of enormous importance to our community, and in the final analysis, it is really what financial laws are about, they are a recipe for how we are going to run our community the next year. The tax system changes being proposed to establish a three - step tax system are of utmost importance to me, for this tax step will be most useful to those with the lowest income. There's nothing to skate over, that I think, and to say that it's only the labor movement. This is certainly the labor movement, but it is also part of the two parties who signed the biographer contracts that united it in a vision that would require strengthening the position of those with the lowest income. As far as I'm concerned, it's good politics that's being practiced here at the Council, but it's also a good laborman. I think this was of utmost importance, and I believe it, and I trust that this is a tax system with more tax steps in place, for in my mind that is an enormous issue of justice. From now on, it's going to be the highest. Social Ministers recommend a bill on prolongation of orc length, and that is another matter that is of enormous importance in terms of recovery. The financial resources due to this bill are guaranteed in the budget bill. This will extend the observatory to ten months, followed by an extended course to twelve months. This is important to balance the terms, for it has been repeatedly pointed out that the prolongation of the hysteria and thus bridge the care gap is one of the important things to do in order to improve the ideal family. And this was the case when a bill for funding was ordered that more people have taken more or less of their birthmarks, so the expenses were more than they had planned this year. It tells us that there are more people taking advantage of the system and more babies being born, and I would look at it so that what's happening in the community and what's going on in the budget is in way. It has also been through the process of increasing donations to the health system and was further improved between the 2nd and 3rd. in certain health - care programs to strengthen it, and it continues to make the health care providers the first stop in health care, another emphasis on the budget that I think is very important to me. In addition, contributions to the environment are being increased, especially in climate - related issues that are, of course, a huge contemporary issue that is so important that they are responding to the budget. I've only touched on large numbers of those which I believe are relevant to us as a community into the next year. However, it is important to talk about what can be said to be the largest in the next year's budget. This is a short recession, and there are many ways to respond to it. It would have, for example. It can be handled by direct cuts in budgets or a general cut-off between financial discussions. The policy, however, is not to do so. Rather, it is to allow the government's affairs to go in a corner during the downturn. This is an extremely important political factor to maintain that this is the way we respond when we see a decline or a contraction. Not only does it happen but it happens because the decision is made to do so. I'm glad that through these three discussions on the budget bill, I haven't been aware that anyone is pushing their fingers into this. At the same time, though, we naturally see adjustments in various aspects of the budget. That's what I think is normal. There are many different categories that make up not only this government but also those that make up the opposition of government, so there are no surprise that the proposals presented are changing. We have heard talks here today, on the one hand, that some cases are being put in too much trouble, while others say that there is a need to be added to other groups of subjects. All right. It's okay. It's all the same with politics, pulling out and speaking for different visions. I must admit, though, that some adjustments are more surprising to me, that we can say, than others. In particular, I refer to suggestions that have been offered on the issues involved in how we are going to deal with the climate problem. I don't feel that they are totally at odds with the place we are in, either as a community or on a global level. I have to admit, I'm disappointed in that. There are also some suggestions on where we might add up, and this in itself is not surprising. You've never had a community, it's a lifelong project. But I do believe that we have quite a ball on the budget bill. It will continue in the processing of financial programmes in how we are going to improve the equation and improve our society. That's always the way it is. I'd like to say at the end of the 3rd. I'm just looking forward to paying a final law on these budgets. Of course, the big changes were made at 2nd. But to the greater part of the legal committee, there are still some changes here at the 3rd. and they'll be my support tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u89	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the law of maternity and parentorum in which it is suggested that the parents'right to observation and birth strength be extended from nine months to twelve months. The subject of the bill is that in the government Treaty and in the government financial program for the period 2020-2024, the same is true. overwhelming of parents' rights to observatory. In connection with biographies contracts of a general labour market, this is the case. Furthermore, our government committed itself to further the birth -oral system by extending the united rights of parents to obstetrics. The bill expects a two-way extension of parental rights to birthworm. So it is assumed that in the first stage, the parent's right to birthworm or pay birth spans for one month for children born, is adopted, or taken into permanent fetuses in 2020. This adds one month to the individual parent's rights, which will be four months instead of three months at the present time. At that time, the common right of parents to maternity will be two months that parents can replace themselves with at the same time with three months. In the second phase, the combination of parents'right to birthworm or to pay birth strength about two months for babies born, is adopted, or is taken into permanent foster care on January 1, 2021 or later. This adds one month to the individual parent's rights, which will be five months instead of four months. Then the common right of parents to maternity ends two months that parents can share with them freely. So the bill expects that the prolongation of parental rights to birthworm and the birth span will be fully implemented for the parents of the born, are adopted, or taken into permanent embryos on January 1, 2021, or later. A respectable president. In my opinion, there is the possibility of switching birthworm rights between parents mentioned in the bill to achieve the goals of the law on birth and parentor of ensuring children's rights to coexist with both parents and to allow both men and women to coordinate family and employment. In this regard, the results of a study of the Icelandic maternity system suggest that parental responsibility is now more balanced and should be welcomed. Further, research shows that the possibility of legalizing parents to have an independent maternity rights to their own success in changing outcomes for women and men. A respectable president. In my mind, there is no question that the system we have set up to help parents accept permission from family responsibilities is of utmost importance to parents, as well as to their children. I also believe that the birthworm system is such a system that we as a community should emphasize that those who have the rights of the system use and use them fully, thus achieving the results of these rights. Before suggesting that this bill go to a committee, I'd also like to say that there are other changes to be made in the deliveryor system, and that is why special work is now being carried out on a total legal review of 20 years next year. The objective is to bring in a bill that year regarding the changes, comments made by an agent, and other events that have been received in recent years. After that, I also stress that the bill will be approved at the Council as soon as possible so that future parents can assume that their right to birth will be held in years to come and suggest that the bill be referred to. The welfare committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u90	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Social and child-friendly minister very much for the presentation of the bill of a change in the law on maternity and parentorof. Of course, I welcome this bill, which is in harmony with what the Government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir suggested in 2012 and was approved by the 2012 General Assembly of the District Government of the Foreign Forces and Self - Opportunity in December 2013. I am delighted to see at this bill that the forward movement team is coming with us as officers to modern times. But I might first ask, " May we be confident that this bill will live, even in the time it is intended to increase the rights of children to live together with their parents,'i.e. through the next two years that the government has planned to take up the birthworm to 12 months? Besides, I'd like to ask you the highest. A minister of how he envisions that the Allied Parliament, the legislature legislature legislature legislature, should win this bill properly when it reaches the General Assembly during the last two weeks of the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u91	A respectable president. How important it is that this government had on its policy list to restore the birthworm system because it had yielded very much! The convention arrived on a maternity vacation in its own time. It was then the social minister Páll the son of Pétursson, who was a minister when he arrived, with the most progressive birth -oral system ever to exist in any part of the world. During the term, the government took the initiative to raise payments and extend their maternity. That's what we're doing in this bill. There's no other way. We wouldn't be measuring for a 12 month extension bill and an increase that would be different from the intention of doing so, as both the next year's budget and the financial plan support this plan. For fun, at the end of the season, pay related to maternity will be leaving from 10 billion to 20 billion. This is doubled during the period that flows directly to the families of this country. So the answer is very simple: Yes, we're going to extend our birthworm and have raised our payments. We wouldn't be bringing this bill up by now. Regarding whether it is possible to resolve this matter in such a short time: I hope so. Of course, it is in the hands of a welfare committee whether she is ready or not, but I hope that it will be possible. This bill has been going through a consultation puzzle, was there for two weeks. Then I just want to point out that we deliberately decided not to make any changes now except for this extension because in progress there is a total review of the law, where we are going to take over the many opinions that have come up in recent years.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u92	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answer. I'm going to ask them again, is it possible that all the executives will be involved in this, so that the votes of government groups in this case need not be relied upon as many others as the government is coming through? Then I'd like to ask the highest. Whether he considered the reviews received during the two weeks, which is a very short period of consultation, 27 reviews received and at least 22 of them - I had now stopped counting - were one way. I want to ask the highest. Minister, since they were not taken into account nor taken into account the reviews of BSRB and BHM, who also sent in reviews, when they think they should take into account those who have something to say about the matter. It seems that the matter is not to be taken into account at the council before the year, unless it does not come from the Christmas holiday of employees and members of Congress this year. If only we count the days until Christmas, it is possible that there are four creative days in the whole of the committee and no narratives. I just want to ask you if it's the highest. The minister believes that this is an acceptable practice, that he will provide bill for two weeks before the Council's Christmas break, and expect the council to provide adequate treatment on as important a bill as this one.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u93	A respectable president. First of all, I'd like to say whether any member of the board will agree that in this matter, as with everyone else, no one can predict how other senators vote unless they themselves vote. However, this matter should be viewed as part of a government covenant. It was adopted by the government, adopted by members of Congress, that is in a lifetime document agreement, and I have not seen any members of the government who have had doubts about the agreement. There were a lot of debates about this matter, and they were particularly concerned with how the shift would be divided and were actually on both sides. On the one hand, it would take more than the number of months that would be shared and, on the other hand, it would be more prudent to divide the worm completely into two, six months and six months, not five, five, two. Then I repeat what I said in my first answer. The case is here. Since much of these comments are available, the committee will likely call these parties directly to him. Of course, it is up to the committee, and under the General Assembly of the Icelanders, it is up to you to accept this matter. I've said that in all the matters I've asked the Minister to put the case in order, it's here for the council, it's part of a biocope deal. We decided to take a consultation course in order to get a point of view. Whether or not they want to approve a case from the government is always up to the council. It's not in the Minister's hands but only with his vote in the chamber. The person standing here will be on the green button and I can inform the head of the welfare committee about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u94	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. There are two things I would like to ask the highest. A minister of the matter and I'm going to get to the first one in my previous answer. It seems to me that in all respects the bill is in accordance with or falls within the proposed task force that produced in March 2016 for a future policy in the maternity department, expected to be to the previous Department of Social Affairs, the welfare minister in this case. Now you see in a paper with the bill, which goes through the comments received by 26 reviews is 21 of individuals and, as stated in the report, by permission of the president: ▪ Those comments from individuals were primarily designed to extend the common right of parents to maternity rather than extend each parent's rights as the bill says. There were various reasons for the suggestion, including that family circumstances vary, such as economics, that the bill for the division of birthworm between parents included excessive custody of the State and that biological factors related to mothers would be taken into account. These were the viewpoints found in the 21st reviews of individuals involved in the consultation puzzle. I heard the highest. The minister's answer is here last year that the options were more likely to be divided into six and six months; njjíd this whole thing down to the sex. But I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What alternatives could be considered other than the direction group to divide five, five, two? Was the only option that came to the evaluation of a divided six - and - six - month division between mother and father, or was it possible that the switch would be so that there would be more uninstalled between parents? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u95	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this answer. There are conflicting views. Either in the 12 months we are going to have a maternity vacation of just six or six on each parent or in the same group, as the senator testifies. What I was pointing out earlier was the way of having those five, five, two, but the reviews were actually the ones that I heard the senator testify to, that there should be more choice, even going down to four, four, or something like that; and, on the other hand, it should be only six months and six that could be heard, e.g. for the head of the welfare committee here, which was witnessing reports from BSRB and others. It seems to me that this proposal for five, five, and two months, found in the Committee back then, in 2016, is quite a good compromise between conflicting views. The criticism is not about whether we are extending our birthmarks. It comes from both sides in this regard. That's why we thought, including... In view of this, that it would be wise to make such a decision, to stick to what was suggested in the five, five, two, one. I also show that it is standing close and is undergoing a review of the whole obstetric system, both the hysteria and the birth strength, of a committee now active. The unit is that it comes off on spring days so that a bill can be brought to the next council, which is designed to look at the various issues of opinion, both in this matter and in the same way as the daycare, playoff school, and so on. Of course, these matters exist. The conclusion was to do this in this way, and I think it's just a positive conclusion and a compromise. [[The president calls.]] However, there are differing opinions, and if there are different views, they must vote on it in a chamber.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u96	Mr. President. The person standing here would now be in this material provided with a zero, zero, twelve, but a spare of three, six, so that all the additional aspects of the game would be in the part that parents can switch between them. Of course, there are a lot of community engineers who want to control the way things are going, but I enter it in my speech below and intend to argue that this is the wise thing to do for the community as a whole. V.E.G. A minister entered earlier that there was talk ahead of him, which turned to the way a child's day - care could take 12 months of age. This is precisely indicated by the proposal of a future policy group in the maternity sector and then in the report that it is important in this context that children's daily care takes place in a normal flow following birthal discharges. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to whether he considers the high binding of the parent to himself - five, five, two, as we call it here, that five months follow mother, five father, and two follow father's steps, as the bill assumes - likely to be effective in having as little space as possible to bridge from the time of completion of delivery until daycare can take over. Of course, there are different views around the country as to the solutions that await them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u97	A respectable president. As I said, it's up to the current job and it's a project to reevaluate the entire litter of birth metals. The situation is very different from that of rural areas all around the country. What has been said in our conversations with the European Union is that a greater part of the country's rural society is working on it or plans for the next few hours reduces middle school entrance age, but unfortunately, there is a smaller percentage of the children in these rural communities. There are smaller communities that have advanced in this regard. This is a challenge that we need to accept as a whole and in conversation with our rural communities because it is, of course, theirs to secure that service. There may be some changes or other approach. It has also been said that it may be wise to consider this in the autumn, to be taken in the autumn, and not according to the exact date of a baby's birth. All this work depends on this overall review, and there is no way to determine the outcome. I look forward to hearing a talk. The senator below will reason on his case. But I'd like to say that the good thing about this argument is that we're arguing whether it should be five, five, two or six months and six or three, three, six or whatever it is. The reason we can debate this is because we have such a good government in this country that it is extending the birthworm. [[Up front.]] She is promoting the removal of a 12 - month - old birth serpent. We're rebuilding the birthworm system. It allows the Senate and its members to deal with the situation in a way that this will be done. However, it is the government that is extending the womb. We can then manage some adjustments. [[The president calls.]] I am incredibly proud to be part of the government that is taking this great step now that we have raised our pay earlier in the election season.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u98	Mr. President. I welcome this bill, which has finally seen the day, but the bill was announced in the Treaty of the Government of the Mother of Katrín of Jakobsdóttir in December 2017, nearly two years ago in the biography agreements made in April. Thus, it has been attracted to carrying this excellent bill into the General Building. Has the one standing here, temporarily premeditating. A welfare committee, called to a meeting with the President of Generals, saw to it that it was a so - called date bill to be used for the New Year's Day. I'm surprised it took the bill that's not particularly complicated all this time, i.e. From December 2017 to November 2018, coming here. When representatives of the Department of Social Affairs have suffered. A welfare committee was asked about the work load in that house at a meeting of the Committee yesterday. I realized that the pressures of the members of the Department of Social Services are quite poor and unbecoming. It may be explained that this bill is introduced into a controversy in mid - October, just before New Year's Eve, is allowed to rest there for two weeks, and is taken to a council where it obviously does not assume a difficult job to handle the law's sentence. I have to tell you again from this platform that I don't think this is a sign of the government's professional management because I want to be very careful with legal procedures and to be careful with it, it needs to be properly discussed on committees. This is the third bill from the highest. Department of Social Affairs and Child Services over a few weeks that is due to be served before the season. Each week, there are two committee meetings, and three weeks' notice is usually given in such cases. So I have to say, I think that this is a perfectly unacceptable procedure. That's what I'm saying. I'm celebrating the bill. The Sigurðardóttir Sigurdirdóttir's government approved a comparable bill in 2012. It referred to the first phase of ten months, the second stage of 11 months, and the third phase of 12 months. It was supposed to be a long time ago, for Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir had cleaned up after the collapse. The first act of the Trustees, Sigmundur Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, then of the advance party, and the Independence Party, was to undo this extension, which was in December 2013. They put it out of the current highest range. Secretary of finance, Bjarni Benediktsson's son, the Government of the Front Class and the Independence Party. Of course, we welcome members of the United States this long timely extension. Again, though, I'm going to say that I'm sorry. The welfare committee should now overlook the need for practical action, especially when I look at the 27 reviews that follow in the consultation puzzle, and yet the discussion was made in a swampy picture because the deadline was only two weeks. Then I have to say, too, that I really find it completely unsurpassed by the highest. Secretary of Social Affairs to say what. A welfare committee can only look to the government for information. The whole body is the legislature. The General Assembly is to do this job, call for reviews from sources, etc. It is below all caves not to respect this role of the Generals. What's underneath here? The children born in 2020 are all below, and all the parents who have children next year are below. Therefore, there must be a problem. What are we talking about here? The review of BSRB points to this, by permission of the president: Since January 1, 2020, it is likely that some prospective parents have already organized their holiday course according to current rules for three months each parent and three months. Granted, everyone is happy that the maternity may be extended, but let's assume that those who are about to take this birth certificate off after a year's convention have arranged for themselves. We're talking about in a month and a half. They are workers, they are students, and these are also people with very little rights. That's also why, Mr. President, this attitude toward all these people is completely unacceptable. You have to inform your employer how you intend to reserve your maternity leave, possibly starting in a month or more. What kind of conduct is that? BSRB's worried about this, and I have to start worrying about it. It is very good to extend the birthworm to 12 months, but it cannot be overlooked if a 2016 birthworm report was submitted and was to work some kind of schedule on how to extend the birthworm. It seems to everyone about the arrangement, and it is the majority of the narratives that came into the discussion about it, just about that exchange, whether it should have a substantial share or not. It is clear from the review that there are conflicting opinions. Some people are saying that parents should be completely in charge of it themselves. On the other hand, those who have studied how best they have been able to cope with the birthworm and the parents'battles, those who are the best at family policy, for the benefit of families and for the benefit of children, including children. In terms of confidentiality, this should not be divided, should not have these things in common, so that there is a choice. I see a review of consultations from Ingólfur V. Gíslason, a percentage of sociology at Iceland's University, and the Guðný - made Björk Eydal professor of social advice at the University of Iceland, who are older than two winters in this study. Both are highly tested, and they point out that experience shows that in the vast majority of cases with common rights, it is only used by mothers. I think we can quite agree that marking a certain part of the birth code for the other parent is ensuring a child's association with both parents. There seems to be a tendency, based on economic and social circumstances, for the mother to take the whole maternity. Then we'd take a lot of steps back. Experience studies in the North countries of obstetrics show this, ranging from the fact that Sweden passed such a holiday in 1974, as shown in this review. However, fathers use much of their unsurpassed right to birthworm, and it is very good because this has changed the role of fathers as well as parents. But that's what I'm worried about, and it was in the case of the highest. a social minister earlier, that your child is not being carefully considered. I am confident that we will have to face children who do not have a chance to be separated from both parents. It is, in fact, there. to discuss children with only one parent. They exist. Because of ART, children have only one legal parent. There may also be an impossible option, e.g. The impossible chance that the other sex parent has disappeared, that it can't be found, but there may simply be the impossible possibility that the U.S. government could harm a sexual parent to live in Iceland. Then the Icelandic government, such as this - where it is totally binding on whether the parent can use any part of the birthworm - has prevented a child in such a situation, not being a parent, from enjoying as much association with a parent as with children who have the opportunity to enjoy being together with both parents. It's completely impossible, it's not acceptable for governments to operate on the rights of children to enjoy association with their parents. Just because of this, Mr. President, it's completely unacceptable to get this bill in the way it is now. Why is this not sufficient? Why can't you bring a bill that guarantees the right of all children? I think it's a total pain in the ass. The minute you're glad you're being extended, it's the highest. Ministers and says it's up to the council if they're not going to agree. He's got certain threats. Of course, we accept prolongation of maternity, but the matter is at the highest level. A minister says two weeks ago before CREEP is completely unannounced. I find this amazingly sad that there is no better way to deal with it, an important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u99	Mr. President. At last, in many sense, this fine matter has finally come to pass. It can be said that we are here taking two people to extend their birthmarks to 12 months. It is nice to tell you that the left movement has been running toward both governments that have made decisions on these steps. It is particularly happy that the government in this way fulfills the constitution's terms on prolonging the birthmark, and in reality it is only better that it is also part of the Life - Giver Treaty. It strengthens the foundation under this government decision. However, as with more members of the council, it is impossible to criticize how late the matter is for the council. It is very uncomfortable to be in the position of waiting for the bill to appear, including for parents who expect their children and themselves to be born for ten months next year, but who are not quite sure until the matter is finished at the council. I don't know what the reason, whether there's pressure in the Ministry or if there's anything else, but there's no other reason to mention this. This doesn't change, though, because I think that my sincere will and I expect a lot of senators to do the whole thing by year's end, and I think it's very important. Happily, there is good agreement on this matter in society, i.e. ... aboutthelongofyourself. There may be some form of abnormalities in the way a person wants to survive that prolongation. In many ways, it is interesting to see a variety of viewpoints. The three main reasons that have most likely been heard are the so - called four, four, four, four viewpoints, i.e. that four months is intended for each parent, and then they choose how four are divided. Then there's five, five, two, i.e. that each parent is for five months, but two months is a vote, or they can decide between each parent in the way it divides them. Third, the way to make a BSRB and a university Union is mentioned, to go six, six, zero ways, which would likely translate five, five, zero if they were to go that way. I'm on the other hand, at least. For now, the decision is made, i.e. going five, five, two, a good intermediate between these two most extreme views - I'm not saying extremes - and I'm going to do well. On the other hand, there is continued work on what is called the support of society for prospective parents, young parents, or new parents. It is no longer so that all parents must be young. They may be expressed in the review of a Union member, i.e. that as a community, we have to decide in what ways we're going to bridge this so - called care gap that has been referred to, the gap between the completion of a legal maternity vacation, and until a child can have a nursery. Like what? Congress officials have recognized this process by means of various means, sometimes by means of day parents, sometimes by temporarily cutting down jobs, either or in some case, family members, often grandparents, have been able to do so. This has been the situation of all last years, I'm not talking about anymore, but society is changing. We are no longer in a position to be confident that the generations will come together and save these matters. Actually, dealing with this is a community - oriented assignment. Fortunately, rural society has begun to take over and at least Some rural communities have made ambitious efforts to reduce their age when children are in high school. Sadly, in some rural communities, children may occasionally have to wait up to two years after getting a place in a nursery. It does not take any scientist to see that there is a legal gap between the womb and the two - year - old, which can be very unfortunate for people. According to the Senate hearing, the time we have is too short. He certainly is, there is no room for quarreling about it. On the other hand, likely all economists who might have had an opinion of the matter realized that this case was on the way to the council. Some of these have sent envelopes into government consultations. It is listed in the report, five organizations or rural areas, and then a group of individuals. I suppose most of the labour market parties have developed a view of how they want this case because, as we have seen, this is part of the biographer contracts, they've almost been pacified that it's going to be approved and that it's part of the better things they've agreed on in spring. Therefore, I believe that despite the passing of time, the Congress should be able to win it fast and fast. I'll at least. I'm trying to do everything I can to get this case done at the time we have until the Senate hearings. As noted in the case of many members of the Parliament, the matter in itself is not complicated, but it has already been mentioned several factors that must be considered and taken into account by the Senate committee. Even if we make a decision as a Senate committee or as a body meeting to make minor adjustments to the aspects of the bill that I mentioned, it is not a complicated procedure that would be so difficult to see, nor would it ever be very complex with regard to today's situation. The change, if left remaining, would likely have a greater effect in 2021, and the members of the bill would then have the time to prepare. That's at least Not all children who may be born in 2021 have been determined. We can in any way assume that when these decisions are made, the ultimate law will be established.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u100	Mr. President. When this bill and the changes presented here are all made, the current price will be about 20 billion dollars. A year to pay birth vacations. I think we senators must approach the matter in a way that means that the decision, like this, to spend 20 billion on this important group of subjects must be taken primarily in the child's best interests. I'll give myself to the highest. A minister who persuaded the council to accept an additional title of his job by being a social minister and child - care minister must approach the whole matter according to the welfare of the children rather than the labour market conditions or such. Therefore, I think that the addition to this subject should all be exclusive to parents so that parents can control the new extension. And I think we're supposed to go further than that, and we're going to be able to do all of that for the whole of the 12 months that are being arranged for the maternity term that the bill was fully passed. The one that wins, including the one that works. First of all, it is obvious that, of course, each family is in much better position to plan what is best for itself and for its child than we are at the council. Another solution that will be solved by doing so at the time of the 12 months is a situation that is difficult to deal with. Children fall, so to speak, completely between ships and docks in terms of the additional month who are bound another parent when there is no parent, regardless of the reason. They can be many things, as we know here. By making the birthworm fully accessible, we resolve the painful and difficult issues all at once. They all disappear. It is not long since we had a quick discussion of pregnancy in this hall. There was no doubt that parents, mothers in most cases, would make decisions that would be wise for the child. I trust the country's parents, mothers, and fathers to make wise decisions as to how the maternity will be divided. Therefore, I believe that it is absolutely necessary for a welfare committee to take a thought - provoking discussion as to whether or not to deviate from the rule that has been established, and to be urged now, that there are several months to be bound to a father and a mother. I think that once the rule is turned aside, it will quickly become clear that it is not just that the country's families can be trusted to plan their own issues as best they can. Rather, it will solve problems that are completely unsolved and that are not handled on this bill, such as those in which a father is not there. We must assume that a mother is in the presence of a newborn baby. I strongly emphasize that a health - care committee takes a thought in the subject. Another thing I think would be wise for the committee to consider is whether it is wise to have a connection with the pay of those who are once born. In these rules, there have been a mild wording, so the rules were changed twice a year. It should be clear to everyone that no one really could keep track of what the payment was, and it was certainly not possible to plan children on it. On January 1, 2009, peak payments were reduced to 400,000; July 1, of the same year, they were reduced to 350,000 and added to percentages. I'm not going to give you the side rules that were installed on January 1, 2010, but there were a lot of them. I think there's a lot to work on simplifying this system, checking into a fixed number that would actually help with their income level. I think if you have a budget, it's easier for your parents to take care of themselves than those who have less money between their hands. I think it should be taken seriously to make the payments a fixed number for each month, not a percentage of the pay. I'll put it in the discussion. The report, according to the report, lays the basis for this bill, a future policy in maternity policy: The proposed task force to be returned to the existing welfare minister in March 2016 is an attempt to identify various aspects of obstetricity. What is mentioned again is emphasized in the bill's report that birth rates, i.e. live births in every woman's life, are criteria to try to support, that fertility and population rate are at the highest level. Of the data that you can see on the other hand in this report, and on the bill there is no evidence that the so - called roof on payment has no significant effect on birth rates. The rate has just been below two children since 2013 and 2014, but it was also 2001, 2002, and 2003. Then she's in a very narrow space, just over two living children born to each woman for the rest of her life. Similarly, the ringland seems to be covering the roof that I mentioned earlier has no meaningful effect, in fact, none of it seems to me. I think that for many reasons, it should be a goal in itself to back up to make high birth rates. I believe that approaching the case in such a way that there will be a fixed number in the maternity room, but not a proportion of pay will be made to make birth rates more likely to rise than with the present system. In this discussion earlier, it was noted that the overwhelming majority of fathers used their authority to take birth vacations. The proportion of those who do it speeds faster than our glaciers, that's clear. If we look back to 2009, about 19% of our fathers did not make full use of their three months. In 2011 this ratio had come to a rate of 31% and was spoken of as being 40% due to babies born, adopted, or taken into permanent fetuses in 2014. A report by the Ministry of Health is presented by permission of the President: Thus, the figures of the employment agency suggest that the estimated proportion of fathers will be causing an even greater rise from what was in 2011. These are fathers who do not make full use of their three months. There's no indication that this trend is to be slowed down or changing, and I think the ratio of revenue is an experiment that may not meet the target. All I want to do is include the viewpoints presented in the report. It discusses consultations in government consultations. For a moment, I'd like to first be embarrassed to the highest level. Minister. I'd like to say that I don't find it acceptable that government consultations will be viewed as an adequate ground of consultation, not as being agreed on by the committees of the Parliament, in this case, the welfare committee. It is not acceptable, but it is possible to make comments on how late this matter is presented. I know that if it's going to be done, it's going to be done, and I'll bet it's decent. Still, there is no need to put the matter in this narrow time frame. In chapter 5 of this article, I would like to mention that there are five different stakeholders, and then there are comments from 21 individuals. The report says of individuals'comments by permission of the president: ▪ Those comments from individuals were primarily designed to extend the common right of parents to maternity rather than extend each parent's rights, as the bill says. There were various reasons for the suggestion, including that family circumstances vary, such as economics, that the bill for the division of birthworm between parents included excessive custody of the State and that biological factors related to mothers would be taken into account. This is what the minister himself puts forth as a summary of the comments made by 21 persons in a consultation guide. This suggests that those who use the system on the grounds of newborn babies, the parents of their children, call for greater freedom. They approach the matter based on the reasons for their children, not on the job market conditions that seem to be the basis for which the stakeholders put their comments. It is only fine if it comes to the fact that the government decides to spend 20 billion on this project on the basis of supporting the work - market views. This must be about the child and his interests. That's all there is to it. If there's anything else, this bill might as well be spending more time on payment, that's just the way it is. - I'm giving myself a smile. Minister means he agrees with me. The National Association of Iceland gives reasonable comments that people do not see a country in the fact that children's preschool programs are open to the end of their parents'right to birth vacations. Number is missing and viewpoints were identified, including Just a few minutes ago, one of them. Councilmen here have spoken of, e.g. it would be an idea to include children only in the fall of the country so that it would be once a year. It is obvious that such an operation will not be adapted for children 12 months of age. They were born well over a relatively equal year by year and would be a completely unrealistic goal at the end of birth ostracism, i.e. At 12 months of age, we'd get the kids to nursery school. I want to end this talk by saying that all the goals and decisions in this case that will allow 20 billion to give birth holiday payment that the bill will have to take into account the child's interests, not someone else. Therefore, I suggest that none of the 12 months with father or mother will be bound, and I suggest that there be a fixed dollar, not a percentage, but that it be considered. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-26-35.u101	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussion that has taken place here. I'm so glad we're giving this order right now and that it's coming to a committee. I'm glad the government puts up a bill here that's supposed to extend an observatory for 12 months after raising the payments for maternity. Opinions vary in how this should be done, as we have seen in the discussion. I expect that when the committee considers the case, she will discuss it as well. On the other hand, the comments on the subject went on to see whether it should go further to tie the birthworm to each parent or to whether it should go worse. I think we've had a good landing on this bill as it goes for five, five, two months. Remember, too, that when certain members of the council who are now out of the hall are talking about the interests of children, I rejoice that they are interested in them and I expect them to do so in other matters. Children's best interests are to be able in the first few weeks and months of their lives, and during the first year, they have the opportunity to stay close to their father and mother. It's important to make sure. It is always spoken of, and increasingly, that the first months and first year of a child's life are the most important things. The view that this is not positive does not promote the interests of children. I just want to say it here in this room so that it's documented because research shows that by the time the birthoral system was put on, we men were shot to take a birthlord that we hadn't made. Is it not good for children to be able to develop a bond with their fathers, as did their mothers? Those who claim otherwise do not speak for the benefit of children in this room. Of course, there must be some flexibility, and he believes that by going for five, five, two months and giving flexibility about two months, we are also saying that it is important for children to be able to develop close ties with their father as well as with their mother in the first few months of life. We saw it when they put the birthworm system on. This was before the time that the one here had children because I was just a teenager during those years. However, it has been suggested that when fathers planned to take a maternity vacation at that time, they laughed at them in a coffee shop and said: "What are you taking as a baby vacation? Don't you see a woman in your home who can take care of her children? At the same time, research shows how important it is for a child to be able in the first few months of his life in separate and in his dealings with both his father and his mother. I wanted to come here and say this because we're just looking out for the interests of children by cutting men like me and us here in the audience to take a birthworm and spend some time with our children in the first few months of our lives. After this, I'd like to say about the bill's contribution and how late it is shown that it is not to be followed. I agree with the members of Congress who have said so. There's something we're just taking over, but I'd like to say, too, that there are a lot of prime radios now working in the Department of Social Affairs, especially in the biographies agreements, e.g. billets about the lease market and about the first condo, the birthworm is here, major changes in labour market surveillance, as well as hard work that attract the integration of welfare services to children. These are very big cases, and we've tried to work them as fast as possible, but some of them have taken longer than we planned. We have not asked for any special financial contributions related to the biographies, the Ministry's staff has simply improved their tasks. On the other hand, we will try to do more than we can with the bills. But the big thing is, we're taking a big step in the prolongation of the birthworm. We're taking a big step to improve the rights of children and children's families. I'm incredibly proud of it, and I'm glad that in the time of this government, pays to parents on maternity vacations and, hence, the child family of this country will rise from 10 billion to 20 billion. It's all the money that comes directly to the family of this country. I appreciate this discussion. In many ways, she loved it and hoped that a health - care committee will succeed in the process, and I look forward to getting it back into the Senate to the 2nd.
