ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u1	Borist has received a letter from a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the House of forwards that Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson, a deputy of the List of the Church of the North-eastern Precinct, announced its pasturage and will therefore be replaced by a member of the council as a substitute for the Egilsdóttir of Eliphe. Today, therefore, at the General Assembly as a deputy for her 2nd Specialist on the favorite party list, Bogi's Hafliðason.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u2	The president considers an agreement that may last longer, but the Senate does not recommend a meeting long into the evening.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u3	There have been letters received from the following advisers where the request is made in order to give written answers to queries: From the Environment and Resource Minister for Information on Space. 224, through the ministry's outland tours, from Seystein, Sæmundsson, and on the threshing floor. 256, on the protection zone, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. I'm a financial and economic secretary for the inquiries of the deck. 324, for the change of taxes and charges, from Óli Björn the son of Kárason, to the threshing floor. 407, for the proposed new headquarters of the Land Bank hf., from Birgir Þórarinsson. Finally, there is a letter from the Minister of Justice for a petition on the subject. 196, on the reasons of the wiretaps from early 2014 from Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u4	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Education and Culture, Minister of Social Affairs and Children's Affairs, Fisheries and Agriculture, Environment and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u5	Mr. President. The Environmentalist Organization Extinction Rebellion has given much attention to extreme progress in many parts of the world and often at times a very extreme approach and policy. V.E.G. A minister will have declared support for this organization but will support the objective of the organization, including The world's primary goal for net greenhouse gas emissions in 2025? And supports the highest. Ministers who would have to attack to achieve that goal? This organization has spoken of measures that would greatly affect people's everyday lives and especially income groups, would actually bring us back decades in time with regard to equality, the possibility of reaching their destination, of having a car, and of traveling. If the organization was to be demanded to stop the net emissions by 2025, this would lead to the ultimate human crisis of world history. Supports the highest. A minister of these goals, and if so, how does he provide for them?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u6	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I don't know that I ever declared support for the tolerated organization. It may be that I've put ◯likes on Facebook to monitor these organizations if that's the case. A senator is referring to him. Since the senator speaks of a special goal of removing cigarettes to zero 2025, it is something I don't think is possible. Doing so is not realistic. Of course, it would be very desirable for us to do so, but I don't think it's realistic to reach that goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u7	Madam President. I referred to the TV news under the headline 'Vill's cover of democracy during climate change in the course of which these and other topics are discussed. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Minister and his position, but I agree on the explanation of the Supreme Court. Minister. This is the only time I'm satisfied with the answer to a minister in Iceland's government. I hope that this will give some indication of what should come and that the government will promote greater moderation in the battle against climate change in the sense that people are increasingly looking at science and facts and seeking actions that can really work, so I'm celebrating the answer to the highest degree. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u8	V.E.G. President. Although I declare it here that I don't believe that net emissions can be achieved by 2025, that isn't realistic, it is not that we Icelanders or other nations should not set for themselves clear and ambitious goals when it comes to climates that I believe us Icelanders have done. I've also said that we need to do even better. We're taking a very big step when it comes to these matters, and I'll lead them, including. of the government's operation program since September 2018 and of the many measures it has taken. So it's perfectly clear that the person standing here wants Iceland to be the front of the climate when it comes to ambitious goals and to follow them closely.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u9	A respectable president. I'd like to direct a question to the highest level. Prime Minister. It's probably the hundredth time I've ever referred to it as the highest. At the time of government opposition, a minister said in the General Assembly that poor people could no longer wait for justice, that it would be in the power of the government to meet that righteousness. Now that after the collapse, all were impaired, and all had to face the traumas the nationalized population was going through and including those who were promoting social security, unfortunately. In the previous campaign, all political parties have promised that it would be corrected. Yes, everyone has been corrected, except for those who have undergone the terms, disability, and those who rely solely on the advancement of social security. They're as poor as it is Christmas. Tomorrow's 2nd. ... abundant. This is the third financial bill submitted by the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. I'm asking the highest. Ministers, without talking about what has been done for the overall, what has been done in housing, child reforms, and an increase in the other - there are just not all who can take advantage of it, just not: How long will poor people wait for justice? Is it possible that in the fourth budget of the government, which will arrive in recent years, there is the mutation that has been waiting for since 2009?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u10	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæland Happyland for bringing up an issue of disability. But I also hear that. A senator does not want to hear, as she puts it, about the actions that benefit everyone. But that's the point. I must say again: the tax system changes that we are going to introduce, not in three years, but in two, will be used by the most commercially-based groups, both micro-and-other. Hv. A senator has to accept that it will bring benefits to the microp poor, the fundamental changes we are making on the tax system, so that tax declines will primarily become the most efficient groups. It will do for the poor that we are adding to social housing support. It doesn't work out for everyone, does it? Senator. Everyone needs a roof over his head, whether they're cripples or others. Of course, it will be useful for the most commercial groups, microgouts, and others to raise their child - welfare benefits specifically and to benefit specifically from the use of health - care costs and reduce their dental expenses. So, ladies and gentlemen, we can also watch a group of microcolleacies, and we can see that these costs are increasing by 20% in terms of real value from 2017 to 2020.2020. When looking at expenses for this topic type specifically, i.e. The microbubbles, which a proportion of total expenditures, can be estimated to have taken from 6.7% to 7.5% in the same years since the start of the current government. This ratio has never been so high. Let us keep that in mind. The cost of a per person, because this does not say all of it if we only watch the increase, it has also increased by 13%. Hv. A senator also has to admit that what has been done is useful to microorganism, not just the general action that truly benefits all poor people, but also specific measures in the affairs of disability. The facts need to be settled when discussing these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u11	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the answer, but the facts must be on the table. The facts are exactly as follows: There is a particular social group here that will not be improved. It is a social group that is struggling in severe poverty. Even though it's the highest. The tax reduction to which the next two years are due does not change the fact that it brings to the person who has the right to the next 240,000 bucks. paid over 8,000 bucks. during this period. Well, I guess it's the best. Prime Ministers say that even though they received $250,000, they are individuals. Exploited and, in fact, had nothing to do with living on, struggling with poverty, and having no more to do for them than has already been done?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u12	Mr. President. Hv. A senator knows that's not what I said. I did not say that enough had been done, for surely there are still large groups in our community that we can do better with, and the poor are among them. But I still want less trouble. A senator insists that things have already been done. I didn't mention in my first answer the fact that in the middle of this year, there was an attack to reduce the degree of impairment on this group that has been his biggest struggle for a long time, i.e. A dollar a year and 2.9 billion spent on that project. We must also take it into account. That's not why I'm saying you can't do any better with microorganisms. V.E.G. The Minister of Social Affairs has been proclaiming the year - to - year bill of changes in this system and I think we need to face that it also needs to be done better. That's where I know we're gonna do it. A senator agrees, but at the same time we must keep in mind what already comes to be useful to this group, a number of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u13	President. V.E.G. During the weekend, the prime minister stood for a reasoned study that reviewed some of the marked rules of the Constitution, which was the Social Science Institute for the University of Iceland, which held on to the project. In an introduction to the poll, Jón Ólafsson, a professor at the University of Iceland, says with permission of presidents: ▪ The pressure that comes from having a university community inside it, having a theoretical approach to things, is so great that I feel really amazing if we are going to see a government pass the results that come out of this. President. In 2010 a national meeting was held that discussed the revision of the Constitution. During the meeting, Icelandic society's tributary, 950 people from 18 to 91 years of age, and the sex exchange was almost equal. Following the National Conference, a board of directors was appointed to make proposals for a change in Iceland's constitution to be presented as a bill. At 19 conferences, a board of directors met, 135 members met, and 28 members met. It shaped a holistic plan for a new constitution under the U.S.A., October 20, 2012, U.S.A. There, two thirds of the voters said that the proposals of the Council should be proposed to a new constitution. That was over seven years ago. In view of the total disregard for the national law on the constitution written in ◯The most humble and democratic work of the Constitution that history may record, to quote the words of Vigdís Finnbogadóttir, why should the common people believe that the arrival of the University of Iceland's Social Sciences will be some sort of a vendimental point? What's the top count? The prime minister who will change with a two - day reasoning survey when a long career approved by national law failed to succeed?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u14	Mr. President. Now it is, as I think it is. A senator is aware that the presidents of political parties living in the General Assembly have done a great deal of work in the general review of the Constitution. There, a council member, Pirantar, has had a representative who, of course, has helped to discuss this process. The reasoning survey. A senator refers to my remarkable efforts in the community council. This is the first time a meeting like this is held in Iceland according to the theoretical methodology that lies behind it. We are asking not just one question but an examination of how people change their attitude to their argument, something that I would have thought would be of great interest here at the National Council if we wanted to use a variety of methods of public society. It was our conclusion that we have sat at this table, and been in this conversation about the overall review of the constitution during this terms, that it was very important to enable the public in it. As far as I know, we've all agreed on this table. It was suggested that these methods be considered in the original memo presented to all the presidents of political parties at the General Assembly. This was suggested at the beginning of the season, starting in 2018. At the beginning of 2019, it was suggested that the study of the constitution, followed by this reasoned meeting, be carried out. I watched part of this meeting, and I found this very exciting work to be done. I certainly hope that the General will make more use of this methodology to enable the public to consult. I believe that the guidance we receive from this meeting will also be of great benefit to us in the work at the General Review of the Constitution. But I also hope that this methodology will become increasingly new to public society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u15	President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister, the answers. I agree that the debates are of the good and are something that should be done much more often and consultation with the public is good. That's very good. What I'm worried about in this case is that the public has been consulted but they've been ignored. We can have endless consultations with the common people, but why should the public participate when it is so ignored? That's what I'm pointing at. My question to the minister turned to the fact that we've gone through a very democratic process that was ignored and now to do it again. I doubt the credibility of the process when it's being recorded again. President. During a covering film session, I too noticed that the highest. The prime minister told the following about reasoning: With this method and if we get a clear answer, I think this could be a very helpful tool for future government administration to activate these methods in order to get the public to a table in a different way than the simple national regulations. I'd like to ask you, is it the highest? Prime Minister to argue that national law does not work? [[The president calls.]] That a year or years of preparation for a fully developed idea of the control ship, about which all the common people have the option to express themselves, is somehow worth less than 300 people found for two days? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What about the whole process we've already been in?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u16	Mr. President. Hv. A senator cannot speak to me in any way that in these words, I have minimized the 2012 national pay or any other national fees that have been held. [[Up front.]] What I was saying, and it's pretty clear if you listen to the words, it's a different methodology than national law. I think it is very important that the government uses a variety of methodology to consult with the public. I would've thought what. Senators would agree with me on this. It has been seven years since the 2012 People's Bank of Nations, and since then 25,000,300,000 people have joined the political market in Iceland. When we began this overall review at the beginning of the terms of the terms of the season, everyone agreed that it was important to enable the public for consultation, including the category of whales. Senator. Hv. A senator asks: " Does the public believe in this? There was a third hundred people, I don't have an accurate number, to participate in this mission, an entire weekend. They believe in this. That answers, too, I think it's a question. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u17	Mr. President. A bill for interest is on the program later today. There, of course, various grasses teach, but it's critical, and in fact completely unacceptable that money is not expected to be paid to pay those who rely on pension pay increases in the rhythms of the biographies contracts called. The people who have to trust in pension pay have not chosen their lot. We, the lawgiver and the government, are to protect the group. V.E.G. A prime minister has felt that it should be ambitious for the government to improve the interests of the poor and the older citizens. A discussion on the 2015 budget reached the highest level. Prime Minister, then in a position of government, under the adjustment of a smaller section of the budget committee for raisings in accordance with newly established labour agreements and saying, on permission of the president: I therefore agree with the smaller parts, which merely put into practice the change for the poor and older citizens to receive terms that are at least comparable to those under which they are, in fact, at the lowest rate in society, and which reforms will be repetitive, as expected in a public market. These groups have not chosen their lot, and it should be our pleasure to live decently with them. V.E.G. The prime minister also served in the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, following the 2011 bridal treaties, to obtain comparable compensation for older and older citizens, which was negotiated between ASI and SA. The government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, covers the lifetime contracts but leaves behind the desperate and older citizens. Why don't they get pay from April 1 to the rhythms of the biographies agreements? Why did it change to the top? Prime Minister on this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u18	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I think she calls for me to go back to what I went over earlier in my answer to why. paritaprevir Sæland Howil, i.e. What we have actually done in this government since its beginning in 2017. I don't think that's gonna be said too often, because it seems that way. Councilmen believe that much of what has been done in the history of this government in behalf of the busiest community groups is not useful to microenergy pensioners. But this is simply not true. Therefore, I must remind you again that here we are completing the payment of tax reforms in which a three - step tax system is being introduced which will provide the largest tax reduction to the most efficient groups. I'll tell you what, I'll tell you, I'll tell you, I'll tell you what I'll do. In particular, the health secretary has in his important way to reduce the payment of people in Icelandic health systems, to set the priorities of older citizens and micro-piercs, first at the level of dental expenses that had gone unmoted since 2004, at the time of the highest level. A health minister took over, and last in attendance on the health care providers. These are heavy loads to bear for these groups. I must also remind you that support for social housing will be greatly increased by micro-energy pensioners. Then I can review the figures again that the cost of an individual since 2017 has increased to an absolute value of about 13%, meaning that the pay of microenergy donors should have increased by less than 30,000 dollars. per month for each microenergy donor based on these calculations, i.e. A 13% increase. We must, Mr. President, consider what has been done when discussing these important matters. And as I said before that. paritaprevir Sæland Gourand is not saying that this group cannot do more than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u19	Mr. President. Government action to the highest level. The prime minister seems so pleased with giving it back even. that too many poor and elderly citizens have to make enough money in less than 248,000 dollars. in a month far below the minimum wage and, in fact, far below unemployment. The tax change to be taken into account in 2020 associated with biographies is only 1677 k. every month if all is taken together. The government wants to raise more than 255,000 dollars for those who rely solely on payment from a insurance agency. month next year. In comparison, the biographies deal on the lowest pay scale of 317,000 dollars. in the month between April 1, 341,000 K. month since 1 April 2020 The difference between the lowest salary and the pension will then be 85,000. per month. [[The president calls.]] Tells you the highest. ▪ Isn't it a matter of justice that pensions at least raise the wages of those on the lowest wage?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u20	Mr. President. Again, I want to reiterate what I didn't come up with in my first answer that it has been a very difficult question from the micro-energy donor stakes to reduce the number of losses. This was done in the middle of this year, and a dollar was reduced to a dollar's degree. But as I said to him, "what?" A senator before that is not, so that does not mean that it should be done any better. I think me and what. A senator would agree. Of course, it may be simple to talk about some average in the group of microenergy donors, but they are also a diverse group. We have the busiest individuals I think should look at in particular, like the highest. The social and child-friendly minister is in the case of older citizens, the elderly, and is particularly looking at the most efficient group in the system changes. I think that's the right priorities, and now, as I mentioned earlier, there's a bill coming from the highest level. Of course, a minister must look especially at how we can lift that group.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u21	Mr. President. We are now available and will be discussed with you. Here today the government's budget proposals for raising contributions to the Land Hospital are increasing in response to the mishaps. But this is not enough, and the hospital has already had an operation that has already begun. I made this up because there has been quite a discussion about that decision at the top. Health Minister to transfer screening for cervical and breast cancer from the Iceland Cancer Society to the State, largely to the Land Hospital. Family members have expressed concern for this and for good reason. There have been others. It is some 20,000 screens per year that we are talking about here that require special facilities and special people. The Ministry itself says that the amount of money paid for screening has not been determined. The same is true of the preaching system and where cell research will take place. Then it has rightly been pointed out that the Landsaholic is a university hospital and has a legal law to administer a highly specialized hospital service. There is nothing in the law about the hospital's duty to protect. On top of all, the cancer society itself has been paid over 50 million a year by means of this operation. That's about 10% of what this has cost. What may be of importance here, and most important, why I direct this inquiry to the minister is that we have no particular positive experience in a similar move. At the same time, the government's emphasis on moving private people to the State, including the Land Hospital, has grown dramatically. So I ask the minister, has he had the cost assessment performed on the transfer of the cancer club to the state? How, if in any way, the Ministers assume that the services to users will improve in this move? So I paraphrase the question: What is the expected advantage of moving these activities over, especially in view of the fact that the transfer of the first section of the operation was moved from the cancer club to the state, did nothing other than prolong the waiting list? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u22	A respectable president. For some time now, the setting of a screen in Iceland has been considered. A screening committee was assigned according to a cancer plan to make proposals for the screening procedure for a surgeon's office. The agency then made these suggestions and reviewed them with me, and I agreed to them. For example, cervical cancer screening was referred to as moving to the health care unit and preparation for that change is under way. On the other hand, there was professional evidence from the Akureyri Hospital and Hospital, which, with a note to me, presented evidence that a group of breast cancer would be fired simultaneously with what is called clinical imaging activity in breast cancer searching. The hospital's breast centre will assemble specialists and professional groups to ensure optimal treatment for breast cancer. The European Community of Breast Cancer has provided guidelines for such centres and recommend that group search are within or in close collaboration with the breast centre and that the nuclear medicine doctor is a group search and clinical study. So there is chiefly professional evidence to recommend this change. On the other hand, I'd like to say, for anxiety. A senator on funding this, that it is important that it be done with a good spirit and in cooperation with those now serving as a minister, and that financial support follows the changes and expansion of the work at a land hospital. Therefore, I intend to make sure that this expansion of the work will be done in an acceptable way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u23	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Maybe just doing this advice, i.e. that the clinical imaging work was accompanied by these opinions, that this is the reason for the transfer. The fact is, it was delivered three years ago. It was together at the Cancer Company, and then the clinical analysis was performed, and it is used as evidence to give the rest over three years later. It's not a reason, is it, chief? Minister. But okay. Then it is confirmed, at least Here on the talk chair, to the highest. Minister will ensure that funding will follow, and I hope that he will not forget the 10% of the cancer society itself has paid from this expense. Hopefully, the list of waitings will be further added, perhaps in imitation of what they used to be with the cancer club. I'd like to, because we're discussing this move and the benefits of it, to know that now is more than two years, if not less than two, from the transfer of Claire's charity. The expected benefits of that change were never properly realized, but it would be interesting to know if the highest value was possible. A minister has arranged for a follow - up visit and has any information for us as to whether any benefit was gained by this arrangement or whether it included an increase in the cost to the land hospital.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u24	A respectable president. First, only forward with this professional argument. You're right. A senator points out, and this happened in a step - by - step manner in the way he mentioned it. But what is considered important, as well as in the argument of both the Hospital and the Akureyri Hospital, is to be close to this professional backland of cancer. We also have the mental - health care facility that is important to our expertise, especially in the case of high - quality specialists. Hv. A senator in particular asks about the financial or professional benefits of the change to the home nursing and home service of cancer patients. I don't have the exact answer to the question why. A senator, but perhaps I would solve it either by contacting him. A senator or a person who responds to a written request.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u25	A respectable president. Iceland's heart and lungs are often said to be the middle of the highlands. We've had a lot of discussions here, and I can agree with that, but now I'm going to talk about the lungs of the capital, the Valley of Ellis, a natural and a curfew, and one of the biggest green areas of the capital. The natural world in the valley is a unique piece of geography, the search trial, the falls, an example of 4,500 years old lava. Salmon fishing has been practiced there as long as the oldest men remember, likely since their development and is a marvel of salmon fishing running through the capital, I think. Now, at the latest, in the newspaper this morning, we read that in this area, which is said to be peaceful with the city authorities but only with neighborhood protection, up to 4,500 m2 will be placed under a greenhouse, which is certainly a green project. But business and other activities are also expected there, as the newspaper reports this morning. Green assignment is positive, and I support the whole mind of this plant. But would it be proper to put it in green areas and to walk on them limited quality in the green - green capital? Should it not be further, since it has been built more firmly and farther into other such areas? That's why I want to ask the highest. The Environment and Resource Minister is not important and does not have huge protection values, important for both outdoors and human health, from nature protection, biodiversity and other sources. Do we not need to be careful when associating with such important territories as the Canal Valley under parking lot, business business, and so forth?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u26	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Yes, it is clear that green areas are basic to urban areas, I agree with the senator. It's where people come in contact with nature, and I think these areas clearly contribute to better public health. In fact, research in psychology or environmental psychology - shows that when people go into nature and, as it were, in inhabited areas they have a soothing, brain - healing effect. So it's important. If it is gone to the sea, it is also important, and there is certainly plenty of it around the city of Reykjavík. This is one of the factors that are now being considered for work in a national planning policy, i.e. how to use an organization in the interests of human health. Of course, this has access to these green areas. There are several of them here in Reykjavík. We who live here and others can enjoy them in our daily lives. These include areas that are quite manlike, such as the Valley of Saturday, and the Crumbrat, and then other areas, such as the ocean. A senator mentioned earlier. We can go up to the Hall of Ellis and other areas where there are areas that are truly important to the outdoor and public health of people. I agree with the senator that these areas need to be carefully organized. However, I make it clear to the Valley of Old age that he does not enjoy peace. As shown in the case of the senator, he is a neighborhood Protector. For such activities to be considered, it is necessary to either be on the General Plans or to have the will of the government and landowner.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u27	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers for answers and agree with him on the importance of these green areas and their positive effects. For example, the green area in the Valley of Ellis has produced many of the police officers, but there a man himself ran his own ordeal to get through the Police School. I think this is the very area where we should unite to receive further protection values or to put it in a peaceful light, lift it from being peacefully declared under neighborhood protection to the general terms of peace under nature protection, since there is a great deal below. We will not be able to calculate to the future the importance of having this large area within the citymarks that have all these features that I covered before, the salmon, the lava, the unique natural world and earth history of the area, I do not speak of the biodiversity that we are putting on the tip of the Allied Council now in our prehumanity at the Council of the Northern Pacific.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u28	V.E.G. President. I will not take a stand on the matter of the particular issue mentioned, but I will agree with it. A senator's concern is that green areas are extremely important to the inhabitants of the capital area. I understand it's Reykjavíkurburg's food that it's not one of those who are at the front of the order when it comes to saying peace. As I mentioned earlier, if there were to be any such action, it would either have to be in the programs that have already been accepted from the council or that are requested by landowners and rural society to be attacked in such terms of peace, and we have some examples of this now in the peace - proclamation campaign. However, I do not feel strongly about whether this should be a priority or not, but I refer to what the city has called itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u29	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to the law on Homing and Civilization Institute. The bill is a part of the government's efforts to cover collective labour market agreements and is the first of many who will be submitted to this council, which includes the implementation of government support to biographies. The Government Treaty states: Whether economic or operating conditions are a key element of a powerful community [...] The government intends to provide improvements in housing matters that contribute to the growth and increase the balance of housing markets. The bill presented today is exactly one of these improvements. This includes the cohesion of two state institutions, one on the other hand, the housing loans and the other, the Agency, as well as the separate financial resources of the apartment loans with property and commitments due to the release of apartment bonds from funds, but in recent years the work has changed from being a general loan to be used by the government to implement housing services by means of analyses and housing policies, as well as loans made for community-based projects and institutions for public housing. I'd like to start by briefly reviewing this bill, which is based on the results of two groups of work. The first group was set up in September 2018. The group was assigned to suggest ways of reducing the country's risk because of the growing loans made at the apartment loans, but as noted, the fund has limited authority to protect itself from these payments. The report of the work group introduced to the government at the end of March this year suggested that the camp loan fund be divided up and the share of the fund's activities involved in finance for an early loan collection would be separated from the Agency's main activity. It was thought that such financial management was a failure to present the fund's activities as government housing projects and management tools when it came to policy, analysis, and management with public housing. If you split up, you would form an independent unit that could work independently and isolated from the payment problem. This also rhymes well with the changes that have already been made in the activities of camp loans, but the fund is now mainly responsible for the management of policies, research and analysis of housing markets, as well as the management of public housing support and loans for social projects. The group believed that by replacement measures it would be possible to plan for a large housing facility that plays a key role in housing markets, implementing national housing, and coordination, as well as being a powerful member of the country's rural community in connection with their housing plans. The government approved at a meeting on March 26th of my last motion for the dissociation of the camp loans based on the proposal of this task force. The other working group was then appointed in May this year to explore the cohesiveity of the individual funds and the CREEP Agency following the transport of monuments and, therefore, the activities of human activities at the head of the Department of Social Affairs. The results of the task force were to suggest that the two institutions be united. The task force felt that together with the institutions could produce positive harmonizing effects with a broader knowledge and perspective on the seminary. The task force then felt that it was possible to achieve economy and improve the use of funds by a united organisation. So the work force concluded that the unity of the two institutions would contribute to better and safer and more efficient housing markets for the public, the construction industry, the government, and other economics. A respectable president. In line with the suggestions given above, this is suggested by a bill to establish new laws on Housing and Mobilization. The law will combine the activities of the Agency and the section of the apartment loans that carry out government policy in housing. In addition to the role, duties, rights and duties, and commitments of the European Environment Agency, it takes on the role, responsibilities and duty of the apartment loan fund, which is part of Homing Agency management, according to the chart of the annual budget of the 2018 camp loans. In addition, Biret's work and property is being taken over by the House and Manor. The work of the new institution is important. In this way, the Housing and Human Resources Agency will carry out all the activities under the laws of construction, building products, fire - control laws, firehouse regulations, the protection laws of electrician workers, consumers, electric residents, chemical laws, the provision of products related to energy use and information laws on energy use products, as well as the activities established by the camp loans laws on housing, housing, and the laws on public living. In addition to this, it is also assumed that Homemaking and Civilization Organization should lead a formal consultation with stakeholders in the field of interest under which they hear. In addition to this bill, the decision to unite the institutions is laid down a number of changes in housing laws required by changing the role of the camp loan and the separation of economic affairs, as I described earlier. Then there is the bill that suggests the secondary changes to other laws. It is very important to make changes, such as the ones here in line to care for human resources. In the institutions proposed to be united in one place, there is vast knowledge and experience with the important categories of subjects that fit into their realm of activity. The bill for the Law on Housekeeping and Civilization Organization expects all employees of the Substitution Fund to be offered a job for a new agency. It can be assumed that the headcount of the new organisation will be 110. Preparation has already begun, and the participation of both institutions and information to employees has been stressed. In the summer, when the bill was introduced to the government's confidentiality that time would be short, but because of the interests of government funds, especially from apartment loans, it is necessary that this adjustment take effect as soon as a year or a year, as the bill suggests. That is why, immediately, some committees who have regularly met to prepare the many things that will need to be kept in mind together if this bill is adopted at the General Assembly. The staff of both institutions are members of the Commission as well as the Ministry of Social Affairs Directors. The workers of both institutions have also worked together in working groups because of a number of preparatory issues, such as the organization, the culture of the workplace, housing, and so forth. It can be said that unity is very good among the employees of both institutions. True, it is a short time ahead, but because of this fine preparation and participation in the workers of the institutions, I believe that it will succeed. The bill was presented in government consultations during the summer. The comments received have also been prepared with the Ministry of Economic Affairs in making the bill, especially with regard to the separation of the fund from the work involved in the construction of housing. The secretary of the budget will soon recommend a bill on the apartment loan fund, which lays the basis for setting up the fund, which is designed to reduce the government's risk because of the money paid. It is necessary to increase housing security and housing stability. Together with the Agency and the Substitution Fund, there is an opportunity to improve cooperation with rural areas and other housing stakeholders as well as to support administration, policy and implementation of housing and humanitarian activities in this country. A reduction in institutions and integration of projects can also be expected in time for government management. A construction and construction agency will play a key role in following government policies on the reduction of construction costs and building up housing for all social groups. This should be done by the Agency, including with research, information, loans and planning, as well as the Agency is aimed at ensuring foreview, effectiveness and quality of workers with follow-up programmes of rural society, simple regulations and construction management and thus contributing to the greater security of the country, including with a reduction in construction costs. The new united organisation is to be able and will have a full view of the group and therefore will be in a position to contribute to the more efficient planning and the more targeted follow-up of building projects. In this way, a construction agency will be able to carry out and follow the local government's emphasis on housing at a time and ensure that they will produce the desired results. I look forward to hearing a discussion afterwards about this subject, and after that discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u30	A respectable president. We're dealing with a bill for a law on Homing and Civilization Institute, and two organizations are being united. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister for interest rates and payment loans from Homeland Institute. Their resources are very high, they are from 4.5% and completely above 5%. At the same time, certain groups can make use of pension loans and gain interest that are well below 2%. It looks like it should be changed to me. However, there is a particular group to be left behind. There will be some loans on these high interest rates that a certain group cannot change because some of these people do not even have the opportunity to pay off or apply for a pension loan. Is that the fact? Should a certain group be left behind in high - quality loans that people cannot change?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u31	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this answer. Of course, it is true that this is even true. The interest rates that make the loans grow, not just. It is also just because of the change in patterns and sources of funds - the sources that he has for credit have been limited to social or market failures. The funds are tied to their last bond edition. On the contrary, the fund has not needed more money and is tied to the stock market, which was the last 2012 when it was very high, so it has this effect. But with this bill it changes any interest in the rest of the loans. For those who are still borrowing from the fund and who have not paid up, this bill is, in fact, the same position. We do not have financial resources or resources to yield to the payment prescribed by the senator in his inquiry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u32	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. That's exactly what I'm talking about. The ones left behind in the soup are the least those who should, the people who live in the country, the poor, the older citizens who live in their homes. These are the ones who can least repay and should be given the opportunity to change interest rates. I don't understand that we should at least try to meet this group in some way. It's really annoying that we should always be making two systems in this country, for those who are rich and who can save themselves and pay back our loans, and then we leave everyone else in the soup. That's exactly the kind of people that would need this, that they can either pay off the loans and get new ones or at least to see that interest rates were reduced to the exact same value as the market today. I think the state funds and the government should see their honor in making sure that this group is at the same level as everyone else.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u33	A respectable president. Although we are not making changes that are related to the existing credit collection, we are still making changes. As I traced earlier, it is as if the fund today cannot lend to just the groups with which it needs to lend a loan, except on the basis of the 2012 bond package and thus the higher interest. The sea will continue to have a social role, it will continue to have the role to form a bill for special share loans to citizens who, hopefully, will enter later in the winter, and to lend loans to market failures in the country. Then we will not be going to a bond tender, which was last 2012. Then a decision will be made to determine which interest is to be considered. So we are making changes so that the new organization will be able to serve even the target group of people. A senator mentioned in his opponent.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u34	A respectable president. I am always happy when trying to make more money in government business, including the U.S. together the institutions that have shown count levels are simply too many of us. On the other hand, I miss the encore papers with the bill that there is little or no assessment of how economics could result from the unity of these institutions, and so this case is being carried on in a very small way. It seems to me that united institutions are expected to start a new organisation for the next year, that all those working at the institutions today and that they are expected to advertise and hire new directors of the Agency. I wonder: Isn't this going too fast? Must e.g. Is there a new director of the Agency when she's supposed to start her operation? I strongly criticize the shorter or the leading of this matter, and I fear that this is exactly how unity can get completely out of control. Hence, the most reasonable question might be, Would it not be proper to postpone this union until it was even finished? Ordering a new manager? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u35	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. There's a lot of financial interests under, you know, you mean, and that's what we say when it comes to the division of IL and Apartment Bank. As I explained in the introduction, it was reasonable to go along together with what it would be done. This is expected and will be expected to show up on the committee that on a yearly basis this budget may be up to 100 million at the time of the Agency's employment. However, it is also to be able to ensure increased efficiency in housing and activities. The preparation has gone very well. I'm just encouraging you. The welfare committee to bring to work in the processing of the issues of both institutions, strategists, the European Union of Iceland, and others who have worked very closely on this project because I believe that it is possible to do this with great power and power but at the same time only in a short period of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u36	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister will answer but may not be much closer. There are no data available on the appearance of a united organisation compared to the management of the two relevant strains. It would have been helpful to see e.g. Economic and economic separation in the data of this bill, I can't find a place either. The problem, of course, when it comes to a union of government institutions, is, of course, that economic plans have rarely been carried out, perhaps because they have been placed very hairy and vague at once. It seems to me there's another example of that. There is no goal in managing the benefits of the union as well as when the owner, who handles the financial responsibility, does not set in motion any such goal, it is not expected that the results will be great. Therefore, once again, I would have suggested that the minister simply give the council a better time to look at this, and that would also be a clearer goal immediately under way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u37	A respectable president. The basic objective of the government is to provide housing for all and ensure increased stability in housing. That is the primary objective of this bill. We feel that there may be some financial gain from this too, so I have made clear and called for all these images as well. A senator is calling for. But we believe that even. with projects that are available to the apartment loan fund, and with regard to housing plans, and so on, to the introduction of the building puzzles that we were in.a. to discuss at a meeting with the Industrial Association this morning - that, with increasing force within this system, a new institution can become the heart in ensuring the long - awaited stability of housing and human activities. A senator has been fighting for ever since he was the executive director of the Association of Professional Affairs in his time. I'm so glad we're taking this step. Of course, it must be in the hands of the Parliament and the council which decisions will be made on timing. This is what was once happening when the government's opposition suggests that the government's affairs are simply postponed. [[The president calls.]] At least that's not what I've been getting used to since then. A senator, and there's a good change in the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u38	...gooder for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u39	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. I have some doubts about the matter, and I can't support it because I believe that this is the one that has been overlooked by the most important factor ever performed by the Civilization Institute, i.e. We've got security in buildings and electrics. V.E.G. Speaking of instability, for example, that is being promoted for stability, a minister now asks me: " Has there been any instability in the activities of the Human Fortress Agency? I don't know what it's like. I'd like to ask the highest. What key aspects of the activities of the institutions to unite ensure that unity proves to be practical? I'm talking professionally, the highest. Minister. Second, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: How will the security of the citizens be better assured by this union? This is the ultimate answer. Minister must reason. I see we're running out of time and I'm coming in on some more of the points below.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u40	A respectable president. Of course, I can't answer for individual senators, they have to make up their own minds for a prime project presented here. I'd like to say, though, that there's no discount on the safety of the city, fire control, or anything like that. It is absolutely clear that it will keep and is relatively possible to make it more organized into a new institution. However, when it comes to housing and construction, there is a great deal of professional harmony there. When it was spoken of living agreements, the lack of conversation between the two sectors was particularly lacking. That is why, in the campaign on housing matters, there was also a question of construction and humanitarian activities. There is a tremendous harmony between that and, as I said earlier, being one of the basic works of the government at a time to maintain stability in housing. It has failed us Icelanders, but we believe that a powerful agency in this field could become one factor in this process.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u41	Mr. President. I have even. Worried about the safety factors because there is now a lot of human beings in the Competent Agency. The director will resign with vast experience and knowledge, but I understand that he has not been able to handle matters at the time of uniting the established organisations or counseling them. In this regard, I would like to ask the highest. Minister: Were below any reports and reports, etc. about the security show? Is it not true that we will be able to see those reports? What, then, is it about the law and the organization of a united agency that a minister believes will provide better results in preventing accidents and other undesirable events of this category? It's all very persistent questions, and you're sliding up in all of this that there's a camp loan fund taking over this institution. Money savings and better use are being considered. [[The president calls.]] There's no sign of it. On page 18. 19 of the bill says, for example. not to be expected that the cost of staff care will affect the state's financial resources. [[The president calls.]] Where is this savings at the highest? A minister to himself? But most of all, I'm concerned with the professional aspect of this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u42	A respectable president. I can't direct any conclusions. A senator draws, but we suggest that there should be a powerful and powerful organization here. The directors of both of these institutions, both of which have been funded by the U.S. Because of what? A senator was witnessing to the director of the Clinic for some reason would have been very beneficial. A senator would be at a very cool meeting announced by the Society of Industrial Services this morning, where the director of the Human Overseers Agency, Björn Karlsson, stood up and rejoiced that there was a great power in these matters, and he looked forward to seeing a new and powerful Housing House and Civilization Organization that could bring an increase in the power of these matters and exciting times to come into existence. I don't really know what part of it is. A senator is witnessing there, but he is sharp. The welfare committee to review and examine this matter and to bring to mind all those involved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u43	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the review of this matter. It is good to support the administration of this important task force, which is holding approximately 7.7% of GDP. I have to say, though, I don't like how fast a minister is going to drive the case through here at the council. The case will enter here by the second week of November, and there's a possibility that if you respect the standard deadlines, which I think absolutely necessary, this is a big matter, he should finish December 4 which is approximately 4th, ten days before the end of the council for Christmas. It's perfectly clear, topv. Minister, the timing will be at least Can't resist. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Minister who's been members of the Committee. Did representatives of the Subcommittee and the Manning Agency represent the work of the Committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u44	A respectable president. This is a bill that has a specific proposal for validation. It is in the hands of the council to decide in what way this will be handled. Nothing has changed. It has always been in the hands of the council to make a decision. But it's the Minister's proposal here that this will be significant, and I have reasoned that I believe it can be. However, it is the welfare committee to review in what way this will be done. I also encourage you to be examined in the light that at the same time, we're dividing up an apartment loan fund into an IL fund and this new agency. This needs to be considered in view of the fact that huge financial interests are up to the government's budget that it may take less time than longer because the financial funds it puts into the Ministry are better than the Department of Social Affairs or Substitution. Of course, this will be explained by a bill later brought by the secretary of finance. I couldn't answer the second question, but I'll do it in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u45	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer and look forward to hearing the answer to my previous question. I also ask about the cost of this, because when the Ministry of Health was being replaced and transferred to lawsuits between recruitments, it was repeated here that it would not cost much, but I think that we now see that these figures will run at millions, tens of millions, or even hundreds of millions. So I'd like to know from the top. Minister what the cost is on this. Can you imagine someone saving it? The 82 workers in the apartment loan fund are now required to take considerable notice of the staff in the 28th Environment Agency? Or is it mainly the savings that there will be one president, not two?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u46	A respectable president. In the preparatory committee now active, so that I answer the first question from the previous answer, there are representatives from both institutions. I encourage a welfare committee to summon them to get a better picture on this, so we don't have to take this discussion here. I'm not in that job day by day, so to speak, but the information I get is in the process of doing well. In view of the benefits of this, it is assumed that there could be a financial gain. On the basis of a year, it can study about 100 million. K. when the Agency is initiated. The main purpose of this bill is not to achieve direct economy for government funds. The main purpose of the bill is to get increased force of stroke in the pack, to increase the availability and demand side to talk more, and that we can ensure long-term stability in housing. That is not to say that during the first day of this case, there will be huge layoffs, but in time there will be some 100 million material benefits to the wealth of the empire. But first and last, the purpose is to maintain stability in a housing market.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u47	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the Homing House and Manicults Agency. As I have previously pointed out, unfortunately, it seems that a short notice and a great hurry to run this case through. They usually call warning bells that something is not as it should be and that something might go wrong in these matters. If we look at what seems to be the biggest problem in the case, it seems that we are not willing to change the growth rate of a certain group of people who are already trapped in the trap of an old apartment loan fund and pay very high interest compared to what goes on and what happens and can be taken on the market today. There are those who should, especially, have the best credit rates and the best interest, the poor and low-payers who should have good terms. So, of course, there is a fact that those who are perhaps the most regular in this matter are those who live on land. What, though, are we talking about in connection with this unity? It's, for example. A human working agency. I'm most afraid of the suffering of the Engineer's Office. It would be a disaster if it were to happen because the Agency has a wide role, as the bill says, by permission of presidents: In addition to the use of electrical security and fire - fire control systems, there is a need for assistance in human operations, thus ensuring harmonization of construction watch, fire defense control, and fireman activity. It's under there, for example. Firefighters, and I know that there are concerns among firemen. Certain things are not okay, e.g. in connection with the Brunavor School and various items required and fixed. I also fear that when things like this are together, they will be left behind. For example, under Human Invasion Agency, there are those who hear e.g. apartments or facilities for microspheres that are in a wheelchair. In fact, it needs to be intensified because we have noticed that new buildings taken out have an awesome situation for invalids in a wheelchair, but it does not work because everything is wrong. Of course, there is a need to improve control and get things done so that they work. What comes in there is that $100 million savings. The exact location to take is not stated. I also fear that the Substitution Fund and his administration and Human Rights Agency are completely vastly different institutions. I don't know which would outweigh as the president of a new company, the one that comes from an apartment loan fund or an Invasion Institute. In that context, I would think it would be more important to keep the person who is a member of the Civilian Institute because I think it's much more urgent that everything that's under control is in order with the Committee of Human Rights. I'm not gonna keep this much further, but we're gonna take a good look at the welfare committee. What I love most about this, as mentioned earlier, is the interest rate that should not be changed for those most in need and the other, the speed of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u48	Mr. President. I came into it earlier in answer to the highest. Minister that I'm concerned that this union alone would not be sufficiently concerned with the professional element that is very important in both institutions, especially in terms of Human Invasion. We've been talking about how the institutions should not be united in government business support and management, but the professional element must not be allowed to suffer. V.E.G. With no evidence has a minister shown that the unity of these institutions will result in significant financial savings. In fact, he said that this in itself is not the goal. I also believe that there is a need to consider that in Human Invasion, there is a very important group involved in security. You wonder whether it would have been wise to consider ways to combine all these security issues to one institution into the role of Norwegians and Swedishs, where all work is carried on to the safety of the citizens and the ability to react to society, as it were, are under one hat, and that refers to prevention, prevention work, monitoring, etc. as e.g. Fire control, electrical control, disaster control, for example, hazardous materials and public security and emergency phone response. I don't quite see how this important part of the Agency's work should contribute to the stability of a housing market, I can't quite get it. Of course, there's a connection there. It's good to simplify the system. I support my whole mind to simplify the system and the routine around construction projects, etc., that's all very important things. It has been discussed that this is all too heavy and the cost of building is reduced, so it is important to simplify it. If so, of course, it is a cause for rejoicing. But I'm worried about the professional show. There's a very important project to go to a camp loan fund in this joint institution, and it's my feeling, when I've been studying this case, that this is a bit of the Subcommittee's command at the Civil Relations of Human Rights. I have been told that many in the Agency are not comfortable with the conduct of this case and that consultations have not been enough in this process. It is vital to know which advice was involved. It is vital that we gather members of the Parliament. Were all the counselors who agreed on this as to the security factor? All of this must be discussed in detail at the work of the Committee. I think it's necessary that we get very clear answers to the fact that this will lead to better security for the city. You're asking yourself, it's all going to be so soon that here, as some members of the council have come in, if we're burning ourselves off to a case that's too important, which could then have a damaging effect on the vital factors in these institutions, and then I'm redirecting to the CPA. It is then necessary to be received, too, as I said earlier in the counterargument, reports on this matter, as well as to know the motive. V.E.G. There's been an increase in combat force in the seminary. I ask, has there been a slacker in the affairs of the people for whom the Civilian Institute stands? I doubt that very much. She's doing some very important security. Therefore, it is necessary to know what it is about the Agency's work as the highest level. One minister feels that this need to improve and what it is he believes he will improve with this unity when it comes to security. Mr. President. There's a lot of opinions in this. I have serious doubts about this matter, and I hope that there will be a detailed discussion on the committee. I hope that the Agency's staff will be informed about this process and how they envision it, whether they consider this union to be reasonable. I think it's very important to get it from the Agency's employees, not just the heads of both institutions, but the general employee who does this work, how they picture it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u49	A respectable president. I want to reiterate what I told you earlier that for the security factor, it is absolutely certain that in a new institution, he will continue to be treated with the same force that has been, and that there will be room to do even more about it. Hv. A senator mentioned what I had said in my speech earlier on the increase in stroke force in the seminary and that we had watched the housing and construction procedures a little separate. On the one hand, housing programmes that are being carried out are being carried out within the apartment loan fund and, on the other, the building mystery, the whole project, and the entire human activities of which the Agency has kept their arms around. The institutions have been working hard together, and this can become the core of creating the stability of a housing market that we need. This could be extremely important in the long run. I'm surprised to hear it. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's people do not see the prowess and what they can get out of it. He may belittle the need to build up more sharp forces in his group and that these two talk to each other, i.e. The building project and plans for housing in general Hv. A senator had a meeting for the weekend, which was called after the experience of the system and said that the administration should be simplified. This is the key, and it was discussed at a special meeting with the industrial organizations this morning. What a joy it was that these institutions were being united in order to achieve simpler administration and greater power! A senator recently spoke in a news interview. On the other hand, the senator has been running around and approaching these matters in a different direction, and it is amazingly special.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u50	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers resist and thank for the interest he has in the affairs of the Central Party and the recent Council, which went very well. Many good conclusions were offered, since I was the highest. Minister to study very carefully. He introduced the need for a simple rule and administration that we in the Central Party certainly agree with him. It is now that the Agency works by the laws and regulations set up here, and although the Agency that has been transferred to another institution does not change the procedure that it needs to work by law. V.E.G. A minister knows this so that it cannot be turned out. But I believe in the fact that the house building program will be simple. The security factors, however, are not to be forgotten by the legislatures of the legislature, not by the employees working at the Agency. Of course, there are certain areas where you need more sharp force in which you need to deal with the apartment loan fund, and I take my mind off it, but I feel like the highest. A minister is suggesting that the stroke force of those who have worked in the Competent Organization has been lax. That's the way it sounded. Minister, I just have to say it. This matter must be considered well at the Committee and brought to all the experts who are familiar with this category. We have not been given any reports from specialists that specifically recommend this unity to go through. It is very important to get this from the employees, and I return to the professional factors that I am concerned about the Agency, that they are compromising the requirements of these activities, and that there is a great knowledge to leave the Agency. That's a worry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u51	A respectable president. Hv. A senator describes a reality no longer mentioned in the bill, and there is no such discussion. On the contrary, it is said that two institutions can be united into one new organization that can become more powerful and more powerful. I got it. I got it. A senator to read the bill again because it is just one of the steps that will include simpler management, increased cooperation between different factors, and thus increased efficiency and better service to citizens of the country. With a new institution, the number of experiences may be reduced, and this is true of both the apartment loans and the Human Rights Institute, the experiences of the council. A senator is now gathering. This bill, in fact, is about to take a step toward fulfilling what is needed. On the contrary, these institutions could become even more powerful in a new institution where all the lawsuits, because both institutions have more than one group of languages, are getting more efficient. It's a good and beautiful word, and I'll keep using it, hoping to go. A senator will change his mind when the matter passes through the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u52	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The minister responds and directs them to him that he carefully reviews what comes from the committee when it comes to the case and see the answers of the visitors who appear before the committee. It is very important in such matters to have good consultation with those who are doing the work involved. There's a key in this. I've told you before, this case is very steep. It enters the council very quickly, and it is scheduled to cross at the end of the year. I have, for example. reports that the facilities are not even ready, so much seems to be run through without the prescientism necessary to have in important groups like these. It is of utmost importance together that it is clearly clear what to do, whether unity would include a trust of government funds, and then that the professional factor will be promoted. I have certain doubts, as I have said here, that the professional show is sufficiently pondered in this regard. That's the most important thing in my mind when such an important institution, and I specifically mention an actuates the establishment that takes care of these security factors, is transferred to another institution. All of these factors must be available. I'm the highest. A minister to listen carefully to what those best familiar with this series of languages, the workers themselves, have presented. I've heard of the concern of the workers of the Agency, and there's not a very good suggestion for the discussion and the cohesion plans.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u53	Mr. President. I must say, I always rejoice when the state sets out with a good example, trying to manipulate his business, and hopefully to achieve both the greater efficiency and the more efficient organizations. There have been repeated reviews of the budget that indicate that we run too many institutions. It is the world's most advanced organization, which is now at the hands of the world's institutions. A lot of them or almost half of them think I have fewer workers than 50. That was even. It was handled as both a business council and a meeting field for increased prosperity at the time that pointed out that there is an excessive expense in an institution of only exist; having the necessary support, such as accounting, telephone response, reception, and other such simply to exist as an institution. This means that there will be less for real activity or for the Agency's work. Hence, it is happy that such unity is being carried out here. It must, in fact, praise the government, this is one of the first steps I've seen it take in this direction which has so far been mostly busy with large government expenditures. As we now see in the controversies of 2nd. budgets have increased by 155 billion or will increase 155 billion on solid prices, less than 20%, during the first three years of this government. It is at the same time as additional taxes imposed on jobs and individuals because of the tax increases that are still in force after a crash are about 120 billion per year. The destruction of this government has made it impossible for us to take on the necessary tax doctors now as the valley gets tough. There is a need to point, e.g. on the bank tax that we consumers and firms in form of higher interest or lower financial interest is, in fact, like a worth-improvement increase in the public if it exists. Hence, there is a positive result of a project that could provide a small economy, and there could be much more for this government. It's been way too small and I would say, in fact, that there's virtually no emphasis on increasing the economy during her reign so far, but the booth was blown out as never before. As I look at this bill, however, I am disappointed that there are no clear goals for economic management. Illustrating things doesn't happen automatically. It will be based on a work programme on how to achieve saving in the management of the relevant organisation, a new organisation in this case. I'm not much of a layman, anyway, in a paper with the bill. There is no doubt that the unity should bring real economy. Sadly, when the government unites organizations, it is usually concluded that politicians are afraid to accept the political responsibility that economic harmony should bring economic benefits, that there is a clear goal to make it. Sadly, politicians find it much more convenient to present a flat economy demand for a government bill without specifying how to achieve it. That is, I would say, just a political coward, for the economy of state affairs, with about 70% of the government's cost of pay, of course, means where to achieve this economy, not only throw it blindly upon all institutions and all governments without any priorities or without any guidelines on where to get an advantage to any extent. Hence, it is disappointing to look at this in a case in which there is just an opportunity for further service, but at the same time, a clear and purposeful economy through the operation is achieved, without any such arrangement that can be found, at all times in the series of articles by the bill. It must also be looked forward to a certain lack of respect for the Generals to present this bill in mid - November and to take effect before the end of the year and that a united organization will operate after six weeks. It is not much time that the Parliament can work out the situation to see if it can somehow improve or strengthen the plans of a minister of that subject. On the other hand, I welcome the highest words. A minister of self-imposed to the Committee whether or not they will be given the values of the law, which I think must become one of the first opinions at the time. a welfare committee where the matter is considered, to give it the time needed to enhance the goal of family planning, but also to ensure that it has been properly prepared to achieve its goals. But it can hardly be expected that a minister will be taken seriously on such plans when the council is given, we can say, three weeks beyond the traditional deadlines, to win and finish, and to make sure that a new agency can proceed for years.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u54	Mr. President. I was thinking about coming back to the minister, but I did not succeed, so I decided to give my thought. I hope a minister sees fit to answer some of the things I present. In the 3rd. The bill says about a project, with the permission of a president: ▪ Regarding the projects of the House and Human Resources Agency, laws on construction, housing laws, general apartment laws, housing benefits, construction laws, fire control laws, fire control regulations, firefighters regulations... Two. says about the role, with the permission of the president: The Agency shall be responsible for the administrative work in the area of housing, human activities and the work of building products and fire management services. It says so on page 18. 7, with President's permission: ▪c. Section 5. The law says so, along with a headline: Projection of the Housing Agency. The main tasks of the Homing and Mobilization Agency under these laws are: 1st to ensure harmonization of building control and fire management and fireman operation across the country in agreement with the local government... Then it says on page 18. 13 of this report, by permission of the President: It also represents courses for the rights of designers and builders and designers, industrialists, and firefighters. Finally, on page 19. Twenty-three full list of 3. which I'm not going to do about the projects of Housing and Civilization Institute which discuss the regulations of firemen's operations, the burning laws and what I used to do before, but it finally comes to one sentence, by permission of the President: ▪ The elements remain the same.◯ In this way, Mr. President, the law of Human Fortress does not justify firefighters at airports, and it would now have been a great opportunity to make things right. First, these laws would have been an excellent opportunity to change that arrangement. The person standing here at the council will no doubt go further over the burn defenses at the airports in general, especially at the International Airport in Keflavík. There is no registered firefighter except perhaps one dessert to which the company who runs the field is trying to push out. Other than that, the firefighters are not employed at Keflavík Airport. It's an unpleasant situation, Mr. President, so I think it's a very responsible part that, now that the law of Human Rights has been changed, this point should not be included. I want to believe that this is some kind of forgetfulness. That can't be a resolve in the highest part of the world. Minister that it should remain this way. I can't believe it. As we know, we have recently experienced the delays and changes in the flight to Iceland, including the U.S. Because the fire departments are not ready. What a responsibility it is to accept this point when this adjustment occurs! That's why I'm pointing it to the highest level. Minister that he'll come in either a child and say that I want to smoke in that word or that he's going to change it. I can't believe it's the highest. This is how a minister walked with his eyes open, and he intends to continue this situation without interrupting it. I wish for the highest. The minister here will answer whether he intends to change the arrangement that is in this bill and/or he will come here to convince the person here that he is wrong and that this is all right. As far as I have studied in many parts of this system, I think it is in accordance with the opinion of those who work under these rules that it is completely intolerable that firefighters at airports should not be legalized so that they are paralleled to other firemen not only by responsibility but also by remuneration, in one trade union, and that the same rules about training and other things, e.g. ... insmoking. This one point is enough to destroy the bill. Then there is something else. I don't know why people are so alive, as others have noted. This may be one of the reasons why these things are being thrown to the hands; they are so alive that they have not taken the time to read the laws and regulations that apply and have decided to go through. It is sometimes good until things get up or something happens. Other than that, I'm naturally completely covered with the need for this tremendous speed. Perhaps it is right to change a camp loan fund so that one can scratch it over some step over things they have not wanted to give up. That may be one reason. However, this should not be a security issue. It also states that there is no saving to do this, so you ask: " Is it not a key when we put together state agencies, apart from getting a stroke power and all of this, that there will be some practicality in the operation? So it doesn't seem that way. This is about the point I would have wanted to draw here. I think it's pretty serious, Mr. President. If the Minister can come up here and convince me that this is going to work out the way mentioned here, it's cool. I don't believe in it, but most of all, I would have wanted to go to the highest. A minister would come here and tell us that he was going to keep the law, that firemen should be given the law. An answer will be required.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u55	A respectable president. That's what we're talking about. A senator pointed to what is being said, of course, the bill went through consultation and consultation, but no comment was made on this object. But I think I know from a speech or something. The senator's opinion of the welfare committee will be specific, and the Ministry will provide information to the Committee if this case is requested and the senator is in good position even for the floor's officiating of the committee. But we'll also look at this in the Ministry and get information to the Committee about this. Otherwise, I have to say, I thought it was a problem. A senator, when he was reading such things here and there from the bill and the report, is just very careful in his list of how well they are protected in the bill by all the other security factors involved in the establishment of this new agency. The Senator acquiesced how we make the move so that we go to a new institution unchanged, we're securing the security in other areas. In fact, it may be said that there is a problem. A senator even answered better than the minister worried about his platoon brother and partner because the bill did not guarantee the transfer and safety of these items. The Senator was able to trace it in his own language how well they are prepared in the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u56	Mr. President. As Sturdy wrote, with president's permission: 'At the circus of Geiri Smart, we believe that white is black.' I kind of felt like an eye wound the minister said here. You will see how well this is done because it will be transferred. I was just criticizing the fact that this was going to be the same. I was criticizing that when they're changing the law, they didn't take over and try to make the bill properly. It may well be the Ministry of Ministry. Ministers and perhaps other departments rely on public citizens to read matters in their consultations and try to correct the nonsense that the Ministers and their followers are doing and working on. It may well be. I don't think it necessary for the Minister to specifically point out that the matter was in the confidentiality and no one was in the mood. It may not be a measure of such a good thing. But I can point out the highest. Ministers should want him and his Ministry to seriously ignore the case I have brought here and the defect I feel on the bill in this regard, I would advise the highest degree. Minister to contact the National Union of Fire and Medical Transporters who share these concerns with me, I know. He might also speak to the National Security Committee of the Icelandic Professionals, who I know share these concerns with me and others. If the highest. Ministers and his followers want good guidance in this matter, professional guidance from people who know and know and do this and have experience, and then he could start, for example. these two classes. That's exactly the point of the matter and what I criticized, i.e. the situation should remain unchanged despite the harmony. Nothing's going to happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u57	A respectable president. As I said in my first answer on the matter of comments not directly addressed to the union of these two institutions, the bill is first and last about that, it must probably be a matter of view during the hearing of the council whether any changes can be made on the bill to ensure an even greater degree of security factors in human operations and in burn defenses and so on. All indications of this must be well - founded. I don't understand the resentment and bitterness in my sleep. A senator with regard to my comments earlier because I was very careful to consider these factors, but I pointed to the obvious, as it were. The senator came into his speech, that his party group group members criticized here ten minutes ago, that it was just as if they were putting down the whole surveillance of these matters, security issues, and so on. It was just what I pointed out, and then I took a good look at it. Senator. I don't understand the frustration of being well addressed. A senator proposes that this does not occur so often.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u58	Mr. President. I didn't realize that it was the highest. A minister would be so delicate, would be so daubed that he could not dare to be led to the obvious evils of his bill. [[Up front.]] There is no resentment. Don't cause the lips to speak out. But saying so, of course, I rejoice if I do. The minister wants to listen to what I presented earlier, and it shall certainly not be necessary for those who are present in the public office to give the minister and his people information that I may have, let it not be said. The important thing is that these things are going to be pulled back, pulled back. I would point out again that a minister would probably make the most money talking to those who work in the profession, i.e. In the firefighters and those who are customers or traders, the fire department works, pilots, and others like that. I repeat, a minister would get out of it well, I believe, contacting the two classes, and I challenge him to do so. But I'm glad that at least he's given up that he's willing to make it up to you. I hope he keeps it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u59	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. Like the senator who spoke ahead of me, I couldn't quite answer the minister, so I decided to come up here and discuss in particular one very specific feature of this bill to legalize the Housekeeping and Human Beings. I am, in whole, satisfied with this case, the foundation of it. Indeed, it is a big, big change that takes place. Because there has been a great deal of discussions and other such at the Agency, as it has been observed by then. A senator earlier, leading a formal speaking field. The bill points out that he can be a professional with stakeholders in the field under which it is heard. I think it's good because, as the bill puts it, it is to promote administrative and policy and implement these initiatives, as well as to improve cooperation with rural society and other stakeholders. There's been a little talk about fire prevention and Ministers taking care of it, and I think there's gonna be something that the committee's going to take care of, and that's gonna be a continuation of the case. I just wanted to talk about 1 5. The bill that refers to the use of electronic databases, such as housing, which should be centrally controlled by a variety of data and information, and at the same time support and support the electronic architecture that their communities should use. It is said that it is important that the new housing base be linked to an information system used by the local construction officer. It is also suggested that the Substitution Fund is working on some of these housing bases, and this will result in an excellent perspective on housing status and planned implementation. I've mentioned, and more than I have, when we've talked about cases based on databases that perhaps we've been creating little golf rooms all over our system. I feel that there is no better way to use money and that there is no obvious additive effect of adding a statistics at the Institute, where there is support, in terms of both information technology and media, than for one less agency to employ and then to take care of everything; creating quality systems and databases, or buying it from someone else. There are other examples. We have a dashboard in the tourism service. We have MAST. We've got the statistics for all kinds of stuff. We're basically making a lot of small living rooms out of our whole system, as I said before. I think it's something we need to rethink. However, if there is to be a conclusion that it should be this way, i.e. That the establishment of this special foundation must be maintained and made up by the Housing and Manor, I think it must be that way. I wondered to the minister that the Haggis had that access where housing statistics would be performed. It is similar to Iceland's National Registry has the authority to provide the Agency with a file manager, as we know, the Habitat that information and win the economics on that basis. If we need to get more numbers on the premises, I think it's very important that we do so closely together with the Hausti because, of course, it's supposed to coordinate the public economics of the country. It says, for example. of Article 3. ... intheagainstation of Haust, by permission of the President: ▪ The Habitat handles the agreement between the public economy that she and other government agencies have at hand. 1st par. This agreement includes projects and economic instruments, including the use of standards and classification systems, quality and publication criteria and the management of data collected for statistical development. The economist shall be a regular consultation between the institutions of state that seek public economic reporting or collection of data that are important for their use. Because I think that would require some kind of user interaction, so I'm going to flip it up here. I feel like we're spending a lot of time and a lot of money making databases all over the world, but I believe that Haguens and Iceland's National Book and the tax is supposed to be the ones who have them. I heard a minister knocking, so he may have some answers to whether he agrees with me that this is to be viewed or if the other is something he thinks is more appropriate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u60	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for such reflections and speculations, saying that this is, of course, a political debate that needs to be taken over, not just on housing matters, but in general, as the senator discussed earlier. I'd like to say, though, it's not just a matter of collecting information, as the Hauspology does today. This is, in fact, a license to share information. When we stored an apartment loan fund like that, for example. The role of starting these analyses and the second, which he has already begun to publish, and we have seen in increasing numbers, was on the basis of a bill that reminds me of having been approved at the last legislation in which he was assigned to start collecting information from here and from there on the premises to get a complete picture of it. The point here is, in effect, taking up housing plans that are beginning to work, and everything that attracts housing, the information that the fund collects on housing, and then this structural puzzle, which is not just an information collection or, on the contrary, is not a collection of information, but, rather, as a living portal. It has been under way since 2011 and is now being established as a living portal where construction agents and builders should enter information and there engineers, engineering agencies, and others working on construction projects can enter their electronic terms. This is, in effect, to make all the administrations of this group more efficient. This is what they were talking about this morning at a meeting of the Industrial Association. We stop picking up all the signatures and pick up the stamped documents and then take them to the local community, where all of this is scand and placed in a database. It's more of a living puzzle for housing and engineering. [[The president calls.]] The architectural mystery that has been developing in the Clinic will become the foundation for the building blocks there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u61	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. What I'm thinking, too, though I'm having a change of heart, it's not just a collection of information for analysis, but it's still creating a new agency, there's a new opportunity in it, that we're wondering if we can improve the systems we already have in some way. In this case, they are talking about construction directors and construction agents, and they have their own portal, i.e. The rurals, and the linking to it. There's one thing. But then it's the general statistics. I was wondering if she's supposed to be in here, too. I would have felt that we could have said: " We have a machine that can do it, but then something more and more specific, which is like the highest level. The Minister pointed out, to build, to get the permits, and so on, be under here. I think we have the telethon in a lot of places. It is true that looking to it is only a political decision. But because we have a new institution, I feel like I have a chance to think this in a more general and broader way, and rather put into that new institution what she's more inclined to do, but I'm going to carry out the work that can clearly hear underneath.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u62	A respectable president. I see what you're doing. A senator is going and the politicians there, whether the Habitat should be one central person who collects everything. Today, this new organisation is expected to continue calling for data on the project. It's not only calling for information from Haguems, it's also national, from the tax authorities, from some sort of insurance agency to get demographic factors. My opinion is that it is very sensible to have this in this united institution because we have been calling for such information about the procedures we are planning for, we are not achieving certain target groups, etc., and that gives the Agency the opportunity, in the name of the government, to make analysis, plan, organize procedures, and realize how they are working, whether or not to produce results, etc. My personal opinion is that it is very important to have this work in the new Housing and Mobilization Institute. There may be some differences in viewpoint, but I think there's a bigger debate if we're going to move the information collection from all the institutions that are working it out to the Habitat, although I understand very well what the senator is going to do and that the Habitat should collect all this information. But you wonder, " Is it not just to be mutual? ' At least that's my opinion, but of course the committee and these articles and such articles as others.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u63	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for this and urged the committee to examine it. He named the four people I think they belong to and had to hold this information in my hand, i.e. National records, Haguess, Insurance and the tax. You can see why these systems all need to play together. But it is very expensive in all institutions and companies to create and maintain databases and such. We know that. That's why I'm also wondering that we have to do little units in many parts of the world that may be weak and even we can talk that way about The Hauspic as such, she's not in itself as hot as I thought it should be. In effect, we need to give her even more work. It is not that knowledge disappears if one employee stops or something. Perhaps that's what I've felt about living in this country. Over the years here at the council when you're in charge of the various issues, I always think it's more and more obvious that we need to consider that, especially those in the field of statistical data have a proper amount of scientific data to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u64	Mr. President. As a former radiowoman, I'm not going to say that the show has received a letter to the conference, but it's been received by a government bill to the Council. In this fall council, it is considered to be a bill passed by the General and to be welcomed by members of the welfare committee, as it is the second form of the reign of government. The welfare committee. Let's celebrate, for Christmas has begun, the city around the General Assembly Hall Hall is dressed for Christmas, and good, if the Christmas coven has not been announced for the Christmas coffer in Lullaby Square for the next weekend. I have to be glad that there's a bill coming from the highest level. Social Affairs and Children's Ministers, however, must be told that I consider the timeliness given to a health committee mainly a barely ration. The traditional narratives of the premieres and other councils are three weeks, and when the deadline is nine days, or I think five meeting days, until Christmas break, there's two days before. The welfare committee to include guests in this matter, discuss matters, and, if so, because it is now, Mr. President, that traditional committees for a Christmas break often fall from the committees during the last week before Christmas. So I can see at least not that this bill, which states that validation will remain unchanged during this fall-by-the-day session. That includes the bill. I have to be glad that the administration is being promoted when it comes to construction and housing, but I have to ask, "Why is this the way? " Given the discussion that's been here today, I feel that the purpose is noble, but the distribution may not be quite satisfying. It's good to have a synergistic effect between the Agency and the apartment loans, but when you read the bill, you can see that it's still part of an icebox. Therefore, a person is wondering if this will result in a better housing situation, whether the housing arrangements are prepared. I am not entirely convinced of this, and I am far from convinced that I had listened to the highest. Ministers will discuss the matter and will not have heard from several personnel of the Manning Agency, who fear that the unity will bring down to the enormously important role of the Human Fortress Agency, which is to monitor the construction of workers in Iceland. I also fear a specific ring, that projects and roles will be blurred, that efficiency will not be more efficient, etc. I'm afraid this is going to be a loss on professionalism, and I'm going to agree to some of the reviews that came to the consultation that safety may be lacking. Similarly, there were electrical contractors who pointed to this, and the Nettorial Laboratory was concerned that there would be less surveillance. And there's nothing to talk about transparency in the bill. I'll make sure of what. The welfare committee will discuss how to ensure that work within the main organisation to take on all these tasks will be transparent. For example, when the facilities were being moved under the Department of Social Services, spokesmen of the Competent Agency and spoke of the unfortunateness that this was still around the world, why there were not all personnel and housing issues in one service agency, such as the one noted. in the North, because the planning is still with the Minister of Government. It's unfortunate that they're in those places. It is also unfortunate that there are still three positions of charges, with the Commission of Environment and Resources, the Department of Health and possibly with the Ministry. It cannot be overlooked, because it is now being spoken of as a financial advantage and has been referred to as being made to the fact that there will be exactly as many employees as they are now at the Penitentiary Fund on the other hand, that the workers of the new institution, the Housing and mismatching agency, will be number 110 which is exactly the same number as they are now, there will not be even a reduction of one president. However, they're supposed to divide up an apartment loan fund and move some of it so that the part of the camp loan operation, which is about to take care of the publishing of the debt bonds of the apartment loans, older loans, and the telecommunications of property outside of a credit store, such as funds and other stocks, will remain in the apartment loans, which will receive the name IL Fund. But with the bill it is proposed to set up a new institution called Housekeeping and Human Industry. This IL fund goes somewhere else. He will enter the Ministry of Financial Affairs and will provide financial and economic ministers with a bill about that part. Then you've come to the same place we're in right now, i.e. The Council of Justice was decided to divide the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health. Then there are litigators, and all of this was supposed to be inexpensively cheap and not really cost anything. But what does it show? They're setting up endless offices inside the plots, moving, creating new, hiring staff members, so, eventually, it's much more expensive. I don't quite understand why we're having this. Putting half of the camp loans into the Ministry of finance will be nothing free of charge. You have to hire staff in there to do their show, but none of the people at the camp loan fund are now going there. It's all supposed to be in the new agency, Houses and Human Resources Agency. I think we're once again seeing an increase in cost by means of this move, which, though, is somehow undeveloped. We must want to simplify our operating system, not create an enormous institution that could weaken the surveillance system and not see that there is anything more efficient or more professional. That's what I'm worried about. I'm worried that they're supposed to blow up an apartment loan fund because I don't think it's well thought enough in the bill. Depending on how the matter is being handled, it may well become clearer. The welfare committee. But again, I say it's a very positive thing to support administration, and we clearly need to strengthen the surveillance system, which has not exactly been government interests. I think a weakened surveillance system in all areas of Icelandic society undermines our credibility, creating a lack of confidence in the whole system. We will see in many ways how this is done, whether in the process of monitoring the tax system or in the fishing business. As such monitoring, or any monitoring, weakens the public's confidence in the system. Otherwise, I look forward to working on it. A welfare committee and hope that there will be something positive about it, although I don't promise any of the speed in the processing of this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u65	A respectable president. I'm not going to study the subject of the bill in this speech, but I would like to see a president's search for a hearing on which the committee will be referred, if the case is referred to a welfare committee, as arranged in the history of the Supreme Court. A minister or whether the case will be referred to an environment and transport committee, in view of the long history of human activities. What I want to do with this is that it will be at least the decision made by the council to which the committee will be referred, but this will not be intended. Of course, we know all the views that exist regarding the unity of these and other institutions. The Environment Ministry is still in the management and management of the Environment and Transport Committee, and a great number of people believe that there would have been a complete step that would have been needed to take place so that these issues would also be combined with these intertwining projects. Well, that's at least Industrial organizations believed that a group of languages as a whole had been better placed at the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs than at the Ministry of Health, with full respect for the Supreme Ministry. That's not what it's all about. I just want the case to develop, not by random means, but by the General's taking a special position on where the case is to be referred. I will consult with the president to vote for the matter in the hall to be referred to the welfare committee or environment transport committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u66	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussion that has taken place on this subject, the unity of these two institutions, and I want to encourage the committee to accept the issues that have been mentioned here to consider, as well as to encourage them to perform fine works. I also think that it has been arranged to make it possible for unity to become a reality in a new year. Of course, it is the Senate's rate of handling these matters, and there are precedents to it. The person here has brought a case during this terms during which the council has rushed the validation of law. Thus, it is up to the council to make such a decision, as it were other matters. However, I would like to encourage that there will also be a review in the light of the shifting issues, because we are talking about this IL fund where there is funds and which is negative interest every day. So it is of great importance for the financial status of the state's funds that the first fund can move to the Ministry of finance because it is in no way about housing and manpower in the form we're talking about in this bill. It is simply about that the Ministry of Economics with its projects and projects is much better equipped to reduce the interest in the financial resources it provides for the financial resources it contains. The apartment loan fund does not have the task of making hundreds of billions of dollars available, nor does the Department of Social Affairs intend to add staff to it because it is the financial agency that should care for it. I think it's important to mention this here because it's the foundation behind this date that's first and last, that it's extremely important that this can go through as far as it's concerned, and we're convinced we can do that, given the way the project is being handled. I encourage the committee to call in the premonition committee, which is preparing for these institutions because we are convinced that it is possible to do this at this time. Good work is being done, and we can obtain a powerful, dynamic agency as early as a new year. That's what I wanted to say. Regarding other comments that have been made in their talks, the above comments have been made. Senators who have spoken, I urged the committee to consider the matter. I suggested that the case be referred to. The welfare committee, and that's what I'm doing. Despite a proposal made by one member and the head of the Environment and Transport Committee that the matter is going to go there, it must be something that will be settled at the Senate Hall before the case is dismissed. I thank you for the discussion and thank you for the comments received, and I encourage the committee that gets the matter over and over to work quickly and well because this is not only a matter of the financial status of the state, but also of vital importance, in order to gain additional efficiency in the housing and manpowers as the industrial organization, by reason of the situation. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason quoted earlier, has been calling for increased stroke power, and was particularly delighted to have a meeting this morning, the executive director of the Industrial Association, that the unity of these two institutions is being measured today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u67	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct any change in the law of general apartments. Initially, the law went into effect on June 15, 2016, but with them a new housing system designed to increase the security of income and property owners was established by increasing their access to safe and appropriate rented apartments called public apartments. The second basic objective of the law was to help the rent cost of the tenants of general apartments to be in accordance with the payment capacity and usually not to exceed a quarter of the income. The bill we're talking about here is about changing it. A law on general apartments deals with the authority of the state and of the community to provide so - called planning for buildings or to buy in rented apartments at an affordable price. The first general apartments have already been handed over to tenants, but since the first distribution of stock growth by the end of 2016, more than 12 billion dollars have been delivered. They were assigned as stockmakers or bought at 2,123 general apartments. The bill is a factor in the activities the government has proposed to support the implementation of collective labour agreements at the last spring's labour market to support economic stability targets and improve the interests of employees. A total of 38 of these initiatives turned from over one third of them to housing operations. Team 18 of biographies contracts include ... thatthe government will work on the implementation of the government's campaign on housing issues in agreement with labour market partners and rural communities. Follow-up with the proposals of the campaign group was entrusted to the Substitute Funds in consultation with the Ministry of Management of the Treaty, which regularly publishes the status reports on their progress. Among the steps that the government has made to make for its induction work are some suggestions on housing No. 2, 4, 5, 6 and 7 about the overall housing system and is the bill designed to implement these proposals. Further implementation of other biographies forms, including about general apartments and stock contributions, such as new loans at the Substitute Bank, fund for stock making funding for the general apartments intended to reduce their financial expenses. In view of the experience of the past few years in which they will achieve their aims, the bill recommended here is also proposed to change the laws on the general population. The bill was written at the Department of Social Affairs in cooperation with the Substitution Fund in the light of the indications and changes received, including from the institutions that have been established in recent years. The bill suggests changes in the income and property limits of the tenants of general apartments so that a higher proportion of people have an opportunity for public living. This is in accordance with Proposition 4 of a housing report by a panel and the agreed agreements in 2015. Instead of reaching the minimum of 25%, i.e. The lower quarters of the standard total wage of adults, as measured by Iceland's Habitat, which are the same income and property boundaries that have been valid for the tenants of the social rent that have been funded with subsidies from subsidies, are suggested in this bill to limit the revenues to two of the lowest incomes, or 40%. In view of the narratives received through the bill by government consultations, it is right to insist that so - called cohesionists remain allowed to aim for narrower income and property limits in their regulations for the distribution of public apartments. This is, therefore, only a peak in general of the income and property of tenants when they move into a common apartment. It should also be noted that such a peak does not apply to the implementation of ruralally financed social housing practices. I'm taking it off the 21st floor. The law and the principle that the distribution of such rural housing is based on an overall assessment of the social situation of candidates. The bill also contributes to important changes that are involved in the work of the Department of Social Affairs and the Substitution of housing in the country. It is well known that in many parts of the country, there is a conflict between building costs and the market value of housing that has led to the lack of new housing in cold markets despite enormous demand. The government is going to respond to this problem by various measures, and it is our intention to help build the facility throughout the country. We recently introduced to form a new loan party set up at an apartment loan fund to lend on such projects, and it is clear that such projects have been difficult to finance. In this regard it is also suggested by the bill that apartment loans will be made available to provide the so - called settlement for financing of general apartments in areas where rent houses are severely lacking and there is a difference between building costs and the market prices of housing. The forward is expected to be on the basis of individual needs, but according to the current law, only the fixed share of the stock prices of an apartment, i.e., can be taken into account. 6%. A ratio of less than 6% is often required to bridge the amount necessary to perform, but there are also some factors. It is important, then, that the change will be made that a special structure can continue to depend on each need rather than on a fixed percentage. It is forwarded that a special structure contains strength, so it is not expected that its reimbursement will be asked only if the owner's exchange takes place. In the context of the covering of housing projects in the country it is also suggested that rural communities be authorized to provide housing that should be converted to the general population as stocks, for which changes to the general population should not be considered unfavourable. Many rural communities have a home that is not in use, for the development of a social home or dormitory, which could be converted into a general dwelling and therefore is suggested that a community be able to provide such facilities as stocking. In addition, various changes are proposed to reduce the financial cost of stockholders and thus contribute to the lowest rent price. First, stockholders are expected to get a higher proportion of stock growths at baseline than used to, i.e. 75% instead of 50%. The need for costly bridge loans can thus be minimized. In this regard it is also suggested that the 25% or 50% due to the situation will still be given to security apartments rather than to rent apartments for new buildings. Is it also to facilitate the construction of an apartment loan fund? Second, it is suggested that the payment of the later stock growth will be guaranteed according to the index of building costs for up to two years at the time from the payment of the previous part of the stocks until the pay of the latter part of the donation. Much has been called upon to change by stockholders to reduce their risk because of the increase in construction costs from the time the first part of stock growth is provided until later payment. It is expected that the foretold change will take place in the provision provided from year to year. Third, another important change in the law, which has been called so much behind, is that stockholders will be able to mortgage more than one common apartment to guarantee a common bond made on the market or a so - called book book of bookmaking. This can make it easier for founders to seek a favorable payment on future projects. Fourthly, the bill suggests that the disposition of the strain can be negotiated in time, i.e. to less than three years at a time, to increase the awareness of the Agency's work. Such agreements would always be subject to the conditions and would be carried out in advance for financieries and deadlines according to the timetable of the programme. Finally it is suggested that legal legislation be given to those assigned to developers in 2016 and 2017 will be provided with additional contributions to correct the discrepancies created in the order that the more established standards for building costs were lower than the amount of material. It is important that these measures be added to ensure that the successful projects are fully developed according to the maximum structural cost criteria as they were at the end of 2017. Among other changes in the bill's production are the development of the development proposal for new construction projects and the need to explain how stock contributions should be made in the absence of loans made to finance public apartments or the low share of their stock money has been funded by loans, i.e. Less than 30% of apartment stock prices. In this connection, you will also suggest changes in the maximum length of loans taken for funding the general apartment, which is less than 30% of the apartment stock value. It is expected that they will be up to 20 instead of 50 years of age in order to reduce funding costs and thus contribute to lower rent prices. It is also suggested to establish a temporary priority rule that we waive applications for stock making the Substitution Fund should be based on at least two - thirds of the budget used for distribution each year goes to apartments designed to reduce income and property of tenants in the labour market. This is only a temporary warrant that will apply until stock contributions are distributed to 1534 general apartments for the labour market and property-involved tenants. The provision is part of the commitment of the State under the Government's declaration of housing from May 28, 2015, designed to cover collective agreements that year. Even there was a number of them. Based on the construction of 2,300 general apartments, it was proposed that two-thirds of the agreement be set aside for income and property memory of individuals in the labour market. Thus, the priorities are intended, not for permanent distribution of stocks, but for temporary purposes until the commitments of the State under the aforementioned agreements were met, which were essential to collective agreements in 2015. Finally it is suggested that applications for planning projects where good public transport is put in place should be placed at the disposal of applications, which is in accordance with proposals for the biographer contract. The bill was presented by government consultations and received a total of 11 reports. The comments taken were taken into account during the discussion as the most direct factor was made and the changes made in the bill were addressed. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. General welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u68	A respectable president. We're dealing with a bill to correct a change in the law on general apartments. It's the best thing to do, but I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on income policy, starting with the word in the bill, by permission of the President: ▪Sets will be in charge of stock contributions and other public contributions because of building houses where good public transportation is carried out. I ask myself, " Shouldn't people be allowed to choose where they live? ' Should people have to be where there are good public transportation? What do you think is good public transportation? Is that the city line? Is it all to be built up? If so, how on earth does a minister realize that most of it can be built around him and how much will this program of living only around him? What is the difference between the individuals who will be on the city line or those good public transportation and those that are far away? How unfortunate is the difference between them? Then the second question is, Why on earth was not compared to a 50% average wage in the country, which is 440,000, but 40%? That would benefit a lot more people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u69	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for these questions. First of all, the percentage that is now being set to 40% is why it hasn't been gone to 50%. This is because it is something that was negotiated in 2015's collective contracts that would be 25% and then up to 40% and was repeated now that they wanted it to be this way. I don't know exactly why they had this in 40%, but not 45% or 50%. This was just the result of conversation and negotiations with the labour market partners, both 2015 and again in the implementation of these collective contracts. When it comes to the arrangement discussed here, the areas where good public transportation is viewed as top priority, let's say, it is also one of the agreements discussed in the matter of living agreements and a willingness to be accepted there. The government made a commitment to the area where there would be a powerful public transportation, especially to the general area of the apartment. I think the thought behind this was that those people who rent homes in the general apartment system might prefer to have a private car or make use of public transportation so that their housing is not built away from public transportation. It was a proposition that came into the lifetime document that it would be looked into. And it was also said that part of the guidelines related to the biographer agreements were just that public transport in general is not connected to the issue we are offering here. As I say, this is something that came in there, this priority, to make sure that those people who would rent within the general apartment system had a choice either for a private car or for public transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u70	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I'm afraid of this bilge on the presence of public transportation. There, the cost of an apartment or a building could be much more expensive - an expensive construction site. We know that building a fixed line has been shown to produce a high price level, and that's not how it's going to work. I don't even see it coming. I say by the way, that's where we're supposed to find the most beneficial thing. If we also look at the income side, we are talking about a married couple with 370,000 bucks. in monthly pay, and since 25% has been increased to 40%, it's a huge challenge to many people because two individuals with 400,000 don't get into this system. I just ask: How in the world can we create such a system that it can remember a few bucks or dollars on whether a person can get a suitable rented house or not, get to be in such a system? I'd think it would be much closer if most of the people who want to get into this system and I don't understand these limits. There we can be playing with a few crowns to or from.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u71	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. I think there might be some misunderstanding, or I think so, about whether the assets will be more expensive, which will be close to public transportation. I don't think so because in the general housing system, which is based on the fact that rural society can contribute, and the state puts up stocks is an incredibly strict limit for construction costs, rent markets, and ceilings. It is not the market on its own. This is the real cost of the building, the building costs, and so forth, so it should be possible and should be assured that it does not affect prices like if we were on the public market only to set this law. In terms of the percentages being up from 25% to 40%, it's about 40% of the pay of a fully working person and it's actually about 70% of the population below, if you count it. Well, it's the calculations that men have suggested, that we're getting 70% in there, which means we can be wondering if we're further up on this too much, there's going to be too many down there. But I urge the committee to make a special consideration of this, a committee as a subject. A senator taking his seat.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u72	Mr. President. I think my concern for this case comes from the opposite direction, based on my previous answer. When it comes to increasing the threshold to 40% of the total working adults, we are in a very large control group, which could fall below. The first question is: Is it good for us to have as much housing money as we can pay the State on construction costs? This could have a significant impact on the general housing market, I expect, continued to support a majority of the public need for housing, as it would have become a very strange situation at the local housing market if we had to subsidize more than half of the country's housing. It can't be a good plan for the future, then something else is wrong in that system. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: Is there any assessment of how large a group could be under there, and what would that group need to do with their housing? How many apartments do we have to build to meet these criteria? In this extent, this can have a significant effect. We have discussed earlier in the matter how important housing markets and the need for housing, as well as demand, that we have a clear view of the general housing market to work with. How many apartments would you have to build to meet the demand there? How many apartments per year would be added by extending this limit from 25% to 40%?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u73	A respectable president. I appreciate those comments, they're legitimate. When you're talking about 40% of the pay of a full - time individual, I'm informing it here, about 70% of the population may fall under it. This was negotiated in collective agreements at the time and again and required to increase to 40%. Therefore, I reiterate the law's requirement to see that members who work under this general housing system are free to set narrower boundaries. However, this is what was negotiated in collective agreements, and it may be said that the current practice in Denmark is not based on this limit to ensure social mixing within the general area. It gives us the opportunity to do what will not happen if these boundaries were lower, or not so, let us say. This discussion is absolutely valid, but this was specifically agreed in the 2015 collective agreements and is now being repeated in this way. Therefore, it is expected to increase to 40%, but it is probably something that would be wise for the committee to examine and discuss with the labour market members and other persons who may have this opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u74	Mr. President. I'd appreciate it if I did. The minister answered the first request: How many apartments do you expect to be built in this system? There must be some assessment of the need for these options. This is fundamental because it is a social arrangement for housing. When social resources are beginning to reach such high levels of income, priorities are being reduced significantly towards those who truly need this option. That's when I'm doing another work with the bill, i.e. that includes dilation in other matters - not only greatly increases the income group under which they could be, but also is also an additional resort for the urban population and the satisfaction for the projects going on in 2016 and 2017 - but it is not expected to cost any more money than it has already been spent. As a result, it must greatly weaken the priorities of the social friendship involved, i.e. that these measures are simply being embalmed much thinner.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u75	A respectable president. I want to correct something that I think is a misunderstanding. We have a social apartment system. The idea is that the general apartment system is just above that, that it is a general home system. These percentage marks are there because this is thought to be a general apartment, otherwise it would have been called social apartment legislation. This is a law code for general apartments. [[Up front.]] Yes, but it comes back after a certain time, it is a system that we need to build up for some decades. We need patience to do that, and it's going to happen, let's say, self-sustained. So it was the thought behind this legislation at the time, and I pay attention to what is said here that it is only social resources because it is also thought of for those with the lowest income in the labour market. As for supplementation for 2016 and 2017, it is assumed that I will add to it as I attributed it to my background address. We can't have planned to launch this system around the country. At the start of the day, special arrangements were written that were in the country. It has simply not become new to the country because there has been a certain failure. That's why change is now. We were commitmenting ourselves, the government, in advance of approval of the budget every year, to put in this $3.4 billion every year of a collective contract year. Are we really going to enter this collective agreement like the last one and leave the country entirely behind in this structure? No, we're not gonna do that, so we're gonna make some changes in this. The government has committed itself to building 600 apartments a year over the collective contract time within the general apartment system. [[The president calls.]] That's a split point. It doesn't make any difference that we're going to continue to increase the number of apartments within the system, and I'm going to dismiss the fact that we're being embalmed here. [[The president calls.]] It is simply making good changes in the quality sem Eygló Harderdótttir, the then housing minister, set up in 2015. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u76	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to raise the budget for the year 2019, which is to be found on deck. 434. The bill presents to the Council proposals for changes in the budgets of various causes and lawsuits due to several specific and unpredictable spendings in the current year, as well as to the proposed changes in the interest of budgets and transfers between lawsuits. The largest changes in the bill will depend on the effects of changing economic outlooks and the effects of the Court's decision as well as on the opinion of the Allied agent for an unsaturable violation of social security benefits. Public financial laws set clear policy on the role and subject of budgetary laws. It is thus stated in the law that financial and economic ministers are permitted to consult additional budgets in the bill for financial support to respond to temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable expenses within the budget, although they have not been able to respond to any other legal means. Refering to the requirement that expenses be set aside for the financial resources of projects and Member States, financial contributions are made within legal classes, or funds are set aside from a legal reserve if available. In addition, if the above measures are inadequate, temporary, unpredictable and inevitable expenses can be met by transfer from a general reserve. It is noted that funding is not intended to meet the expenses for new projects, increased scope of activity, or the management of individual causes and lawsuits beyond the set budgets, as such suggestions should be referred to in accordance with budgets for the next year's budget management. The aim of this procedure is to increase the responsibility of planning, policy development, and financial management within issues of industry and litigation, and to reduce the need and scope of budgetary law. A respectable president. I'm going to go back now to the main subject of the bill. As I have considered, the general interest of this bill is not to discuss proposals for new projects or larger dimensions but primarily to be inaccessible to the payment of budgets, but to be considered strictly and unavoidable. The bill asks that government funds in 2019 will be increased by 14.8 billion dollars. However, this represents a 1.6% increase in total financial resources in the current budget. However, the scope of the arrangement is clarified, as I have mentioned, by a few but large spendings. First of all, changes in spending commitments are due to economic and/or systematic changes such as increased unemployment and higher birthworm grafts. It is estimated that the cost of unemployment and the increase in remuneration will exceed a total of 7.6 billion. Unemployment is going to be 3.5% this year compared to 2.4% in 2018, which is largely due to the fall of WOW ar years earlier. There will be more than 1,120 million due to birth orcs. K. higher than expected in the budget of the year, the increase is mainly due to an increase in the average pay paid by parents over the financial population, and so the number of parents has increased and the use of holiday days has increased. Second, the social security spending of 27 disability and the affairs of disabled persons, as well as 28 the material of the elderly, is expected to increase by 7.3 billion. In this way, the Court's Court's Court's Court's Court's Court's Court of Reunion for Reunion of Pays to Penitentiary for Pension on Puncilary Refessions, the estimated effect of this Court except about 5.4 billion dollars. In addition, disability improvements are being corrected in accordance with the opinion of the Allied agent in terms of the influence of habitat time on the right to the disability pension. An agent came to the conclusion that the decrease in the pension rate due to a foreign population was not in accordance with law. The impact of an agent's opinion is some 800 million. K. In 2019, of course, 320 have been corrected for the rest of the year. Third, an estimated 1.5 billion dollars is expected. The increase due to the tilt of health insurance workers in the current year is below several topic areas. In particular, there are over expenses for physiotherapy of 660 million. K. and responding to more than 13% of the excess expenditures compared to budgeting of the year. In view of the past five years, the increase in donations has been about 3.5 billion in value, corresponding to the increase in budgets of 2015. It is estimated that the cost of foreign medical care will be 410 million over the budget. At the end of the year, the cost of aid costs is estimated to be 270 million over the annual budgets. It accounts for about 5.2% of the team's well-being. Looking forward to the last five years, contributions from relief tools have increased by over 1.9 billion dollars. an increase of 56% based on 2015 control. Fourth, a total of 790 million is expected. K. a contribution to transport due to unforeseen additional expenses that the road has had to pay for the new Army. It involves payment to ship - building stations after the final payment of the ship's delivery in midyear and the cost of a delay in the delivery of the ship to Western Island. Other than that, I refer to further discussion of the bill's spending proposals in comments to individual lawsuits. Then I would also like to call attention to this in connection with the role and scope of the budget in Article 24. a law on public finances is required on the general budget of the A-part of the State Fund. The general reserve should be except at least 1% of financial resources, but financial and economic ministers have a general reserve and they decide on how to proceed from it. General reserves are aimed at dealing with economic, gang- and financial abnormalities and major unpredictable and inevitable expenditures, such as natural disasters, or costs that are not otherwise allowed according to financial laws. The 2019 budget contains a total fund of 10.4 billion dollars. From this point on, it is calculated at a time of more than 2 billion dollars. will be set aside in the current year because of some budgets that are therefore not part of this bill. First, it is expected that 800 million will be required. K. to obtain a review of the remuneration of remunerations by 2019. In addition, 800 million are expected to be included in the review of gang leaders, compared with the budget set for 2019 C.E. Second, an estimated 420 million is expected to be reached. K. from the fund where expenses on court orders are about to exceed the budget of the year. Third, it is expected that less than 50 million will be taken into account. K. in connection with FAFF and work on the Guðmunds and the Geir fiscal case in the current year. FAFF refers to work related to comments in relation to financial resources and the commitments of the Icelanders to that subject. In addition, in this bill, the budget is expected to reduce the budget for the general reserve by 5.1 billion to offset the rise of funds to various budgets in the bill. There is no further reduction in funds, but this has been attributed to the provision of some 3 billion opportunities to cope with unexpected and inevitable expenses before the end of this year if necessary. Then I'm going to step on a new bill for financial support. We're in for 3. The bill of the loan of the state's budget according to Article 1. budgets for 2019 will be raised by 45 billion dollars. to 52 billion because of the fluffs on the outing of the cash money of the state government that is being used in financial resources. The total debt of state funds is estimated to be about 892 billion by the end of 2019 instead of 832 billion, as expected in the budget. The increase is mainly explained by the use of loans according to Figure 5. ...but the government fund issued a new bond in June. in foreign currency the sum of 500 million euro, which was not expected in schedules. The value of borrowing makes a deposit in the euro, so it has little to do with the debt of the state's debt under the legal rule of public finances that reduces debt. In Comb 4. The bill is also presented with two changes in the authority given in Article 6. budget for 2019 C.E., a source of 5,12, which is for setting up a social partner for national stadiums in Reykjavík and depositing the company to 5 million. K. in stock money. The role of the Society is to work on the preparation and film analysis of possible new national stadiums in Saturday instead of Saturday's Valley. Further contributions to the Society are expected to come from the Ministry of Education and Culture with a service contract. However, there is a clearance of 5.13 due to the delivery of the Whale Landing tunnel between the Spartan shareholders and the state. Spalar's stockholders agreed that the road model would be granted on behalf of government funds over Speli ehf. This assumes that the union is owned by a trust fund but that the road will take care of the society's property. A respectable president. Before I do what I want to do, I'd like to briefly discuss the planned future for the current year's future with the changes that have been made in loans. As I have previously concluded, there are no changes to the income side of the budget or any overall changes in the spending gate. Nevertheless, the work of the bill has been prepared to re-evaluate the year's planned outcomes in view of Iceland's Common National Organization, as well as a revised income plan, as well as the changes proposed on budgets in this bill. Funds for 2019 expected a total balance of 28.6 billion dollars. Aggravated economic outlooks for early air management, along with hairy ablation failures, led to significant worsening in the current year's survival and to reevaluation of current financial policies, as well as the change in financial contributions for 2020-2024. The budget was produced by 2020 as a basis for reevaluation of the current income and expenses, and it was estimated that the state fund's management would be negative by nearly 9 billion dollars. The results of the current year have again been re-evaluated in regard to the development of income, paying off the remaining year, and further worsening since the September issue was published. A revised plan allows the collection of incomes of 28.8 billion from a budget that is mainly clarified because it is now clear that money - making will be less than expected on terms of budgets. This is expected to increase the budget by 14.6 billion. Thus, more than 35 billion dollars are estimated to be the typical standard of government funds by 2019 C.E. It is expected that the interest rate in the state's budget will be virtually unchanged from the budget and that includes a limp on the total balance of the budget in 2019 will be less than 15 billion. which accounts for 0.5% of GDP. It is more than 43 billion worse than financial provisions were expected. The majority of the changes in government funds are due to changes in economic outlooks and monopolitan spendings due to the year. A recent report published by the World Bank Fund, which has been visiting to take out the situation, makes it very clear that the government's response to worsening economic views was reasonable, that the interaction between financial policy and financial issues has been in line with the circumstances under which the government has developed. A respectable president. As previously noted, the total financial debt will be estimated to be 2,82 billion by the end of the year and a debt rate by government law will be as much as 23%. However, over the course of the year, the state's budget made an offer on the forthcoming budget of euro accounts published in 2014 and issued a new account of 500 million euro, equivalent to 70 billion dollars. The bond carries an increase of 0.1%, which is the most favorable interest ever given to the state's budget. The purpose of this publication was twofold, one to two foreign edition criteria at a time in line with long - term loan policy, which is important for other national groups who need to get financial support in the international market. However, the purpose of the publication was to obtain a broader investor group in the financial debt, set a new criteria for a more favorable interest level than before, and use the present market conditions which are particularly practical for national creditors at this time. By means of the publication, the total debt of the state's budget increases by nearly 62 billion dollars. During the year about 2% of national production. However, the Internet debt guidelines on government funds do not increase, as noted earlier, in which the value of the publication is added to Iceland's Secret Bank as part of a currency reserve, and thus, as in other local circumstances, when the net debt ratio is calculated. V.E.G. President. I've considered the key elements of this bill for financial support. I suggest that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. The General Fundament Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u77	Mr. President. This is going to be a regular event here, that despite the fact that government laws have given us added support in the government of the money, we can see bigger funding every year. There is now an increase in the many expenditures of nearly 20 billion dollars. between the years and only 5 billion taken from reserves. The budget is now showing that the government has completely lost control of government affairs. Despite a record increase in working time, the government is not able to stay within the budget. I wanted to ask the highest question last year. Minister, in view of the fact that this is close to the uncertainty gap given in financial policy before 2019: Is there any government plan for the survival of rural society this year? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] With 0.5% angle on the state funds and not even a GPA account, I seem to be at high risk of breaking up a new unpredicted space this year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u78	A respectable president. This is an expensive description of the position of public funds. A senator is coming along at this point. The World Bank Board has recently left the country, and the message was simple: It is exactly the practical response to government action. Last week, Moody's gave out new credit ratings for Iceland, the credit rate was up. Still comes the second. Councilmen, such as the one involved here, repeated and utter total financial mismanagement. This is so wrong. We're doing the right thing. We're responding. In recent years, we made room for good rest. I don't know the answer to that question as a question. A senator brought up the final outcome of the rural settlement so that we can see what year it will be. But we must always keep in mind the purpose of all of this. We need to adjust our public finances so that they harmonize with our economic situation, and that is what we are doing right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u79	Mr. President. Of course, there must be a minimum requirement for the Ministry of Economic Affairs that it will determine what part of our community will be in this uncertainty pool in the year that we are completing before funding are submitted as close as it is. The state funds are expected to use 0.5% in 0.8% of uncertainty, and the year has not yet fully completed. In recent years, rural communities have been fired with losses, and there is no reason to believe that these subversives also have a negative impact on the survival of the rural community. Their loss last year was 10 billion, if I recall correctly, 0.3% of national product. That means we've already reached the outer edge of this uncertainty vector. There can be no other reason than for the Ministry of finance to plan it before these financial contributions are submitted. However, it is independent of the World Bank's view that the fact is that we have an unprecedented economic growth period behind which new export work was born with a tremendous amount of income called travel services, and yet we have a historical taxation at the command of the current government that has destroyed every single cent that has slipped into the box. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u80	A respectable president. I can't quite figure out what ideas are going on. A senator would have responded to the position he thinks might have been formed. That's where I'm pointing to the overall survival. It's not true here that the government put all taxes in place because it's a long list of the tax reductions we've been using us for. Of course, it is possible to start somewhere other than in direct taxes and tolls, such as goods and tolls, and point them hard. A senator says this has been canceled for the first time in history. Newly diagnosed changes in income taxes resulted in earlier decreases in income tax. The insurance bill is down, continuing to decline next year, and has dropped substantially by probably about 20 billion a year. We can go on like this. In that sense, there is a reason. A senator, of course, is a very wrong man. The point is, it's going well in Iceland today. It's a high level of work, it's a low inflation. The quality of the mortgage has never been lower. [[The president calls.]] We're at the level of inflation. In fact, as recently noted in The Economist, we are the only developed state in the world that is at the present level of inflation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u81	A respectable president. We're dealing with a bill for the budget. V.E.G. In fact, the minister of finance was pointing out that there was a need to provide additional funds for 5.4 billion on the grounds of the Court of the Land. There were over 29,000 under; the pay was 190,000. Mean. We're talking over 90,000 bucks. in a month that is being cut off by law-enforced property defenders in the country. But what I'm more concerned about is this judgment. Don't the Minister want to share with me any concern that law could be passed in the World Council, which is illegal? Even if it was a known case, laws that were deliberately accepted and were supposed to be known that it is not laid down again? With all these lawyers in here, don't you think there's a little bit of a concern that the law has been judged like this? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u82	A respectable president. There can be said to be no more than to say that the judgment was a sentence against practices. I can agree with that. I believe, however, that there was an underlying thought that improvements were not to be expected to be impaired over the period of time. But this does not make it true, and in that sense the judgment is against a particular practice. That's disappointing. But I also have to say that it is a tremendous disappointment that the Council could not have been able to, since we are sending out about 5 billion to those involved, to make an independent decision on the basis of what the 5 billion people wanted to do. Then I'll ask why. A senator: If ever. Would a senator have had this 5 billion for a purpose, had he arranged for them in the way that the judgment would lead them?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u83	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance answered. But law is law, and judgment is judgment. We can't change that afterwards. But what we should do is learn from this. We should learn from this that at the time we should have stopped and thought, " Wait, are we doing the right thing? ' It was a mistake, and we just have to accept it. We can't look in the rearview mirror. And there was another mistake, and there are two mistakes in the same budget, and that is the problem. There comes the U.S. Marshal, who also hit each other at the council. I'm just asking myself, " Why don't we start taking a closer look, make sure it fixes the environment? ' I can't imagine it missing lawyers here to have things right. That's why we're supposed to watch it. It doesn't matter how we want to make the money or how we don't, we're just supposed to do the law and the rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u84	A respectable president. I think the legislature has been very clear in this particular matter, but there are errors in legalization. As a result, this sentence eventually falls, which is paid out large sums of about 5 billion. What I was calling attention to is that if the Council had arranged this five billion, I think it would be excluded that it had been arranged in a way that the judgment would not have been done. I'm sorry. It's kind of the worst thing about this case in my mind that if people had figured out how to get out of public funds, they would have contributed, and not every support in society would have been involved. We have generally agreed on that in this community, I would have thought, and in this chamber to try to make the most of the necessities of life available to those who are in need. That's not the conclusion of this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u85	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of advance, to enter several points, as time allows. Now, a reserve is intended to address unexpected pay, prices and walking issues. That is why I ask a minister to bring in only why it is considered necessary that the funds also come to that issue. The bill does not suggest a change in the income side of the budget, nor does it indicate any change of the state's resources, nor does it change the gate of payment. This will inevitably affect the survival of the Kingdom, and the outcome is bound to change the flow of funds. Then you ask yourself, " Why doesn't the government provide an overview of these changes? ' What evidence is there that there is no change in funds or financial resources? I see time is up. I'll come in on another thing from now on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u86	A respectable president. It is not expected that the use of reserves is part of the budget in the regular work we're doing. On the other hand, I thought it would be right for me to review the steps he would take. This is directly assumed that a minister will render an accounting. So they're all just like that. A senator turned aside. Then there is a certain amount of money, which I turned away from being spent to meet the audience, i.e. to reduce the angle. Then we left about that. 3 billion allowances in case of unexpected events, which will also be used to improve their survival if this year's end does not pass away.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u87	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister. I'm just gonna go into payment for birthworm, raise $1.1 billion. Since maximum pay has gone up since the previous year and the growth of parents, such as the highest level, is the case. A minister of dampness, would be natural insurmountable to learn how much of this increase is due to an increase in peak rents and each size as a result of parental growth. Since the maximum pay is determined by governments, it cannot be said that there are direct extenuating expenses and therefore these factors should not be paid from reserves. However, a parent's growth is normal in careful planning, as it were, and it is the role of reserves to handle unexpected incidents or to react in ways other than using financial aid. So maybe I wanted an explanation from the highest. Minister. In a typical business abnormality, it may be said that raising payment is a decision, and it may not belong in the budget. If the highest. A minister would explain.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u88	A respectable president. You're right next door. A senator's decision to increase the obligatory payment will affect his behavior, and we will do our best to predict how much will go from birth vacation reserves and, on the basis of the assumptions, they will come to a conclusion in the budget. So now we're renovating the year, and it turns out that there are more and more of your parents are taking a birth vacation, and there are more who accept higher payment. In this respect, the premise has failed, and it does not seem unnatural to be removed from the reserves. Of course, it comes to the same place whether this is taken from a reserve or a new financial proposal. As for the rest, it goes down to the same place. So it's really just a debate about what's inside a reserve and what's in a special suggestion. I think the other is a much more interesting question, if I may allow myself to throw it up here: How's it going to finance the birth stock fund with the earmarked insurance bill? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u89	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for the fact that this is generally a little clearer in terms of temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable expenses that cannot be dealt with. It's a relief from the last budget bill, but there are a few things that need such an explanation, e.g. Within the 10 issues of individual, religious, and judicial rights. The amount given for the church meeting is not directly unpredictable. I'd also like to ask the minister, "Where is the 30th paragraph?" does the law on official financial transfers from year to year in this bill? It's for starters with a bunch of such small heights that may be more likely to tire with the reserve, up to 5.1 billion, which is falling down, and then bringing a raise to 9 billion instead of 20 billion. Why are these small peaks not being moved between the ages of 30 and 30? assuming?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u90	A respectable president. Regarding some of the team that are found in the budget or under the general reserve, I think that it is the very foundation of the work of the Committee to get an explanation. We are invited and ready to give them what is called for. It belongs, for example. We deal with church affairs and agreements in connection with them. Sources of cross-overs will still be used where applicable. Each case should be considered, whether it is a single switch or if the amount of money is normally transferred between years, where it comes back to view. In general, though, we are moving from year to year anything within the normal range that the Ministry knows well and thus reduces the impulse to set aside money within a year to be nonessential.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u91	A respectable president. I hope this is all getting better with learning official financial laws, though they are of full value. But here are these solid points, as previously attributed to the church meeting; there is obviously nothing unpredictable about it, it is repeated in earlier years. For 30th. it is specified that there should be transfers and such to the budget committee, and you wonder when it should happen. When a minister sees that he is not able to stay within the budget, he should inform the minister of the procedure he intends to take, and in general, he is to report to the budgetary of such an abnormality. I haven't said it happened.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u92	A respectable president. You're right about what you're doing. A senator's need for this conversation is to take place, but we can't have it until the end of the year or how it ends and how it will be transferred from year to year. It's gonna be from New Year's Eve that we really can make it. For this reason, I would like to point out another in this context, which is the reserve of all the lawsuits and how relatively little was it that they were used. This has not been in harmony with my expectations for the implementation of this new arrangement, and so has the value of transitions within a number of languages. As far as it is authorized, I feel that professional ministers were not to the extent that I expected to use the much larger amount of space they have in order to control money under the relevant department. [[The president calls.]] This gives rise to special assessment and observation, and the first question arises: Have they not learned the law better, to perform it? Or is there something else that is behind it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u93	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a bill for the budget law of 2019. As noted in this discourse, all predictable financial arrangements should be made in budgets, and expenses must be dropped in the year, and financial funds cannot avoid paying them. The bill shows that these are the effects of collective agreements beyond the grounds of financial, financial and economic terms and new unforeseen legislation. It should be noted that this is especially the role of reserves before it comes to the point that while the reserve does not run out, it is intended to hit like this. In this regard, you need to watch that financial programmes are expected to include a record of all laws that need to be changed in order to achieve that strategy. Clearly, then, government laws require a high degree of consideration for legal adjustments in terms of life - styles. For one thing, a bill needs to be looked up for financial support, since the objective of government laws on public finances is to increase the responsibility of planning, policies, and financial management within their responsibilities. The objective, of course, is to make donations that are strictly unnecessary. Interestingly, the bill does not include the overall assessment of the estimated cost of the year. This means that there may be discrepancies in comparison with a change in budgets, on the one hand in the bill and in the overall reevaluation of estimates of the current year's estimates. The bill expects an increase in the budget of 14,8 billion or 1.6% of the budget. This is a 7.6 billion charge. a donation to a remuneration, as shown here, which is largely attributed to the fall of WOWair in the year. Then there is payment for the birth of a stock of 1.1 billion where the maximum pay has gone up since the previous year, and the number of parents has increased on the basis of budgets. Second, the forces raising the causes and issues of disabled persons by 7.3 billion elderly ones, of which 5.4 billion are due to the decision of the Land Court, such as the Supreme Court. This is where a minister traced the illegal effects of retrospective declines in payments to the albino public because of the penalties of mandatory employment-related pensions. This is correction of the payment of a pension of 29,000, an average of some 190,000. every pensioner. It has been a long time before that the government decided to restrict the payment of pensioners in the past. There is therefore little surprise that the national right to judge retrospectively impaired illegally, and it can be criticized that the visible consequences of the administrations of the government are being added to a budget that will only address unscheduled events. Therefore, it may be valid to argue that this is the matter of reserves and even to raise donations to 2020 in order to pay the cost. In the bill, disability improvements are corrected according to the Ministry's interpretation of the opinion of the Allied emissary agent in terms of the impact of abroad on the right of disability. In this context, Mr. President, it is appropriate to consider whether this pension should be paid in proportion to the location of the relevant Member State and whether different treatments of disability improvements and other improvements should be undertaken and which may be carried out in different ways between countries. This does not mean that payment is to be impaired. Rather, it is to ensure that the rights of the citizens are divided into which states they formed. In other words: Is it normal and may be so that a person who has, for example, a person who has. lived in one state two thirds of work, and one third in Iceland will receive all the disability benefits from the Icelandic government? Is it not normal for the countries to exchange these costs? The impact of the approval of the Generals, except for some 800 million. K. as noted here in 2019 and 320 persons have been corrected for their remaining years. One-point-five billion dollars is expected. increase due to a decline in Iceland's Medical Insurance in the current year, which has not been controlled by relevant measures. In particular, there are over expenses for physiotherapy of 660 million. K. or more than 13%. These expenditures have increased by 177% compared to budgets for 2015. As advisers are required to respond to abnormalities with appropriate measures in the areas to which they are responsible, and it states in the bill that the assistance of appropriate measures has not been addressed, these factors are not to be considered. Thus, the bill is described on page 8. 45 That a minister did not do what he was ordered to do according to the law in order to cope with this massive anomaly. This sum and this angle at the Council to return to the Secretary of Repurchasing, for it is not Generalis's job to solve a simple project on budgets. It is estimated that the cost of foreign medical care will be 410 million over the budget. It is only natural to have enough information on this point so that it will be divided into necessary foreign hospital services that cannot be provided in Iceland and hospital services, but since waiting for such a service has become a long period of time, individuals have legal rights to attend the foreign service and have made use of such documents themselves or in consultation with their doctors. Therefore, it is possible to wonder whether that part of a foreign hospital service is not part of what a minister is expected to respond with appropriate measures that include: It is in the right set of budgets, for priorities do not provide grounds for financial contributions. Therefore, it will not be better to see that this part of a foreign hospital service should be referred to a minister who takes appropriate action to be taken on the other hand in making the right budget for 2019 and then implementing arrangements within the budget of the year. General medical services is not a financial matter. Shepherds must not be misinformed, and then they must put on the work that ministers allow to fail to act on. It has also been observed here and in the minister's speech and in the bill that the cost for aid equipment is estimated to reach 270 million. K. ... overpreservationsor 5.2%. Unregistered budget is not to be added. There is a growing need for aid. It seems that there was still a period of spending, which should have been overanxious or taking appropriate measures, so it is not to be seen as a means to be at home on budgets but as a minister's task to be solved. Approximately 790 million. K. ... acontactofAlf. It is a final payment to the Polish shipyard, which took up the construction of the ship. A significant change was evident on the ship after the General gave the warrant for its construction. Of course, many of the changes were necessary, and the process was such a great improvement for the Western eyes, but these changes were not presented to the General, nor were they asked for additional pay on their behalf. It is now requested that the Council pay this expense, but it has not received a report or an overview for the construction process so that it has the basis for granting this request. A minister has reserves in reserves to deal with normal anomalies and since he has not made a financial committee aware of the need for extra money during the period of construction and referred to the need for all changes to be financed, he raises a question as to the extent to which this payment should be done at home. So it is not reasonable to accept this request for financial contributions until it is stated between a minister's release and an unexpected one. The reserve must also be looked to and reasoned, if the payment is as unexpected as the above, why it is not paid from the general reserve. Mr. President. It says that because of the delay in the delivery of a new General to the Western Islands, costs are being paid up. This amount of expense is not defined, and therefore its rights cannot be determined until this information has been submitted. On page 18. Forty-five of the bill shows changes in budget binding, with $2.3 billion below the rest of the bill. Ministerial servants must bring in disunition and explanations of these charges. This is shown on the same page of the bill a decrease in the general reserves compared to the increase in donations for other spendings of 5.1 billion dollars. This must be followed by disassemblement and explanations. On page 18. 46 shows changes in investment contributions to an amount of 47 million. K. and on other teams outside the market budget to a sum of 6.3 billion dollars. In this regard it is necessary to have a disintegration and explanation. On page 18. 48 on the bill is suggested to raise the government loans from 45 billion dollars. 52 billion dollars. ... becauseof the swing on the front of a cash store, which is being used in the government funds fund. It is therefore asked whether the payment of the state's budget is worse than plans expected, since the loan is being raised by 7 billion dollars. Total financial debt, except for some 892 billion dollars. Instead of 832 as expected in a budget bill or an increase of 60 billion dollars. an increase of 7.2%. The explanation is that, as mentioned in the grandest case. Minister, that the government fund issued a new foreign debt that cost 500 million euros, which was not expected in schedules. The bill's caption shows that the value of the loan would be included in the euro and therefore have little effect on the debt of the state's debt under the law on public finances. Since a 7.2% rise in debt is higher than other economics, it cannot be seen better than has been a reason to publish this bill in order to help support the Senate. I think it's necessary to get it from a minister to see if he thinks, in contrast to what the market thinks or does, that the value of a treasure flow is low, as the bill is not submitted. It is a question of whether it is necessary to correct the first. So here, a government fund takes a loan in euros and puts it in the Secret Bank. It would have been reasonable to account for the goals of the loan. If the value of the situation is to be determined soon, it might affect the debt of a state fund that would normally have been explained by a minister in the bill because it would hardly be the idea of taking a loan just to keep it in a bank account. Mr. President. I see we don't have much time. I would like to visit what is stated on page 5. 49 on the bill that there is a warrant for creating a partner for a national stadium in Saturday and placing the company to 5 billion. A k., which is not a very large amount. This national stadium has been spoken of in the Valley of Saturday for decades, with no surprise to such plans, and it is hardly at home and should be referred to in financial terms. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There's something else I would have wanted to come in on, Mr. President, but for the time being, I'll have stopped here for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u94	A respectable president. I was among those who were so optimistic as to believe that interest laws would be passed on by government laws on public finance, as the extravasation of government management would be greatly sharpened, as well as providing a special reserve to cover unexpected and unforeseen expenses. However, it seems that there is going to be a permanent loss in the government that there will be a budget for each year and often, as shown in the previous speaker's case, there is a budget that is neither unexpected nor unpredictable, e.g. A regular contribution to the National Church, which has repeatedly been made to funds, although it is known that funding is missing to meet its commitments. Nevertheless, such expenses have not been expected and are repeatedly provided for. Of course, there are small expenditures that would normally have been gleaned from a reserve, but for some reason it was not done. This is hopefully the last time we see this treatment in the budget, since it seems, unfortunately, that has not been able to achieve the attitude of the government or the Ministry of finance, which was discussed with a legal law on public finances. But this should be to complete exception, not to be a regular event here late in the fall of the Council. But what I find most reprehensible about this budget, which, in itself, is not unexpected, has been warned of the government since it accepted the economic conditions the government served on the basis of far too optimistic. It would have been quite an example in Icelandic economic history if an Icelandic economist had been in the way he expected and worked from all time. The impact of a government fund in 2019 was completely anticipated, and it was very likely to take place, and there's very little to the extent if you look at historical profits in Iceland. Yet, it does not seem that the government fund can handle this minimal blow that is different from a fund, changing its criteria for survival into the financial policy of the state funds, and with these extra funds at the end of the year, by playing the target of a 0.8% uncertainty gap given in this spring hall in critical areas. It's a case of the highest order. Minister that it has not even been investigated what would be a likely result for the survival of rural communities this year, because they also need to be bedridden within this uncertainty gap. Here it is estimated that the contribution of the State Fund will be negative by 0.5% of national production and it is good to remember that the deportation of the rural communities last year was negative by 0.3% of national production. It would be unrealistic to think that the same downturns as these are being dealt with will cause the rural communities to survive badly this year, so that all are likely to be inferior in this year than in the last. But even the Ministry of Economics did not seem to have a problem examining it. Clearly, then, we should only be allowed to discover later if the uncertainty threshold has been breached, whether financial policy survival criteria have been breached. What a lack of discipline this is in public financial matters! Unfortunately, it seems simply that despite the fact that the government was standing for an unprecedented expansion, it did not continue to rise and is still loaded. In fact, the same is true when we take up the 2nd. of budgets tomorrow before 2020, of course, the same characteristics. But I really hope that there will be some change in it and that we really see that the government can work within the framework of the reserve with the reserve that is supposed to bridge the gap in uncertain or uncertain expenses and that we will ever see a response in the government in the middle of a budget year, e.g. where it may be evident that aims to avoid reaching the target will not be met, that some practical action will be taken. But it may be quite optimistic to expect that government to take such a position in public affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u95	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill for financial support. In the answers earlier, things went upside down a little, when I was asking the highest. The minister of finance turned his case around and asked me. I was kind of answering my answers to a minister who's weird, but she's really hot, and now I'm going to answer. V.E.G. A minister asked me if it would be reasonable for a group of rich individuals to receive 5.4 billion corrections after courting. I would like to answer that although only one person on the lowest salary had received the correction, it would be cool. It's just not like that. The majority of those being corrected by it are women. They get the lowest pension and the worst pensions. I know they're the largest group to receive this correction. I know, I've got mail and I've got to see it. The vastest part is people with relatively low pensions. I'm afraid those with high pensions are in smaller pieces. That is why I am so happy that those individuals have been corrected because there is considerable money for individuals who have very little to do, and it is a huge deal for those individuals to receive 80,000,900,000. and even 150,000. Paid out. I reiterate that it is very boring and kind of sad that Congress has not yet gone to law. You can tell yourself that laws are not restored. I think that's very simple and that's exactly what it's supposed to be. I'm also glad that there are 800 million on budgetary funds. That involved 320 people, the poorest of all. It sucks to know that some individuals will have to live at 70,000,400,000 bucks. In a month, just because the system calculates it that way, the agent pointed out that it was wrong. There's something else in this that you can celebrate, e.g. progressive physical therapy, 660 million. "that shows the need for physical therapy. We have to realize that when the funds changed people's ability to get to physical therapists, a large number of people who had not previously been able to afford physical therapy. It sucks to have a system that makes certain individuals unable to undergo physical therapy because they cannot afford it. I'm glad there's a little bit more because I think it's going to get a profit later. You see, I'm absolutely convinced that controlling access to physical therapy will show up in return as an increase in disability. What I miss is extra money for hospital service. Hospital care would have been well available, but there are also over 410 million for foreign hospital service. I'm kind of wondering if there are numbers in it for replacement operations and other measures that could have been done in Iceland, and even three for one. These numbers do not show how this exchange is conducted, but there are some expenditures that were clearly not expected. Other than that, I think more would have had to be on the bill for disability. There's correction of the poor farms, but there's also a change in the specific balance. This group has an increase of 2.5 billion. The most surprising of what was paid out of it is that there seems to be a system error in the state and rural community. It seems possible to pay microdoers special compensation and correction, to leave a cent to 65 a penny, but it does not seem to return to the pocket of disability. Rather, it flows through their farm partner's pockets, where rent payments are reduced by paying the amount as a single payment. It's a completely incomprehensible phenomenon, and it's obviously a cleaning up. Other than that, I'm not going to tell you all about the bill, but I'm going to take this up in the discussion of the budget myself. We are to protect ourselves and celebrate the judgment of the Court because there was a mistake for the legislature. We are required to obey the laws, and although some are good at the pension system, that is not particularly a large group, the other group is a much larger group who's got that shit and certainly had the need to get that money.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u96	Mr. President. I'm just gonna get involved in this discussion on the budget bill. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. Sirka 1.5% of total financial resources, since we have a fairly large team that is actually completely unpredictable, I don't think that much but, of course, gathers when you come together. When we're all talking about less than 950 billion, 1% is a few dollars. I'd like to mention something I miss not seeing on the budget bill, and it's because of the damages taken there, because of the general agent's opinion, which, if I recall correctly, will raise the amount. But that amount may be just different from what I say here. Nevertheless, what I'm concerned about in this regard is that the government decided to accept the conclusion of the Allied agent that the inhibitions were not calculated correctly and that they needed to be corrected. Hv. The welfare committee has then been confirmed, both by the Department of Social Affairs and the State's Social Security, that it is quite an arm to calculate these corrections, even to the point that it is nearly necessary to enter an accounting with each individual affected person. As a result of this, I needed an insurance agency to add staff, and there was some pressure on it both by the Ministry and also by the Department of Health, that insurance agencies get into the calculations already this year to respond to the opinion as rapidly as possible. It's been estimated that the cost may be about 50 million, and I'm aware that this has been discussed with a financial committee, but since I don't have a place on the Committee, I don't know exactly where that discussion is. On the other hand, I feel that this amount of money is more private than money for the next year, perhaps because in my mind a prince's decision is that if we choose to assign a new government agency that was not expected on the budget of the current year, it is not unusual for us to act in some way. Hv. Committee members may be members of the budget. I've been through this and found a different way than the one I'm referring to, but I just wanted to mention it here in particular so that the members of the committee could have a good time. A legal committee could then weigh how these matters should be handled and how best to handle these corrections. We want at least not that because of projects that the government specifically decides to hide this year, the Agency will have problems with the staff and management costs that we will then not guarantee in some way that the Agency will be improved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u97	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the business director of specialized funds. The bill's on the roof. 389 and No. 341. The bill was employed in the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs by means of a committee designated as key economic rulers, which includes the implementation of Directive No. 2011/61/EU, the customer of specialized funds, as well as the Commission Directive No. 2013/14/EU, change in Directive No. 2003/41/EB on the staff retirement fund, No. 2009/65/EC on UCITS Fund and the above Directive No. 2011/61/ESB in terms of over-trust in credit balance. This has increased so that today there is no law. 128/2011, the stock market, the investment fund and the retail board. The bill suggests changes to the current law order that will affect those who run a special fund in this country, i.e. Another kind of treasure other than the stock market. A new financial market surveillance warrant exists, i.e. Negotiation of specialized funds. The main element of the bill is the requirements for the activities of a larger organisation, i.e. those with specialized funds for operating that own a total of possessions beyond some means of money. Work permit requirements, such as founding and earnings, separation of appropriate knowledge by managers and those who have an active stake in the operators, are set aside. Secondly, there are regulations on the registration of smaller operators, i.e. Those with specialized funds for management that have a total of assets below the budget. They will need to register with the FDA and meet certain minimum standards for the worth of possessions, annual bills, cash control and information supplies at the start of business and regular monitoring providers. Third, the bill requires planning, management and internal supervision, including requirements for interest prevention, risk management, financial resources, and property prices, but there is also a authority on how to handle tasks and conditions set out for elimination. Fourth, there is a need for information at the beginning of business, routine information to be provided for investors and regular information divorces to the FEC. Fifth, it calls for the obligation of the operator to appoint owners for each fund, who can play the role of the owners, and what is the responsibility of such parties. A sixth stipulation is required by the employee's license to market investment funds for general investors to meet certain conditions, such as the implementation of the Commission, investment warrants and in-depth conditions. It is only permitted to market other specialized funds for professional investors according to the bill. In the seventh place, in contrast to the current, it is assumed that the employment permit provided by the operators in the EEA for the management and marketing of specialized funds will apply in all EEA countries, with the exception of a notification to the relevant national administration authority. The bill expects the Commission to monitor the management and management of the funds. The F.O. will have standard control clearances, but the legal rights that will last for the longest duration are re-vocation and application of the management ticket. In addition, the EFTA monitoring of specific factors according to the bill will be limited to very rare cases associated with limitations in the marketing of funds with a confirmed outside of the EEA in the Icelandic region. A respectable president. The regulations proposed in the bill will influence anyone who runs a special fund on the land. However, depending on the extent of the operator's activity and how the operation has been conducted so far, the effect varies. The activities of the FDA will increase, and financial market monitoring will increase. The same minimum requirements will be met for the activities of the Marketing Authorisationr in this country and for the activities of such persons within the EEA. Thus, surveillance in the EU, in Iceland, enables better control of system risks and harmonisations and measures in case of cumulative risks. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u98	Mr. President. This is a relatively large, important bill. It does a lot of things, and a bit of a strain is putting herself in it. But I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity to ask a few questions in order to get a better grasp of it. The first factor is: Since this is a European legislation and is primarily about a larger fund in Europe, i.e. In Europe outside Iceland, I wondered how many funds there are in Iceland that will fall below and especially how many funds would fall under 7. ... whichis the exception of smaller funds, so if I get it correctly, I have to report it to you rather than apply for a permit. Then I'd like to ask the highest. The secretary of finance, whether or not to follow Liechtenstein's direction, and to require more work permit requirements than directly required by the regulations and regulations on which the bill is based. If not, what is the underlying reason? Now a Liechtenstein country with a considerable amount of financial sector has become like us on a gray list of FAFFs in the old age or some years ago. There may be reason to look at them when they are applying stricter rules than in the general European Union regarding financial regulations.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u99	A respectable president. It is the main element of the bill to coordinate legislation so that monitoring and response programmes for the management of funds may be more efficient. This is a market phenomenon, as can be said, which has been quite common in Iceland, and it is important that legislation and rules on this market be clear. It is also known that people have been interested in marketing in Iceland's funds located outside the EEA, as I did briefly in my history, but it may be expected that larger international groups would be interested in marketing in Iceland. We know this from the past, and we may be much more likely in an international investment partnership that such funds are therefore dependent on a foreign - country Rapporteur. Yet, there is no end to the fact that the local people want to set up funds, such as those discussed here, in competition with larger funds. I don't know the story about the special adjustments Liechtensteins have chosen in this case, but the bill has been put into good cooperation with the U.S. professionals in this country and all the objective tips are generally considered. There may be some special need or special need for Liechtenstein to make such changes, but I don't know how to tell any better.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u100	Mr. President. I agree perfectly with the highest. The secretary of finance that, of course, it is important to agree with European legislation, especially in financial matters, which has sometimes been called Europe's postmortem. But still, because there wasn't a direct answer to my question about a lot of people: Am I correct about not being in Iceland today? This would really be some smaller parties, just so I can clear it up. As for Liechtenstein, I have to admit that I don't know exactly what they've changed. All I know is that they made some adjustment that came up with the conditions for permission. Of course, it's part of this line of surveillance and response, and I hope we can get a little over it to a financial and business committee to figure out what was being done there. But it would be nice to have an answer from the highest level. Secretary of a number of people in this country, both allowed and reported.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u101	A respectable president. According to Section 2.2 of the report with the bill, the funds that will be considered to be a more specialized game in the Icelandic financial market and, according to information on the UNECE, the holdings of 114 multiplicity funds were about $339 billion by the end of 2018 and the total holdings of 60 investments, which will also be considered as specialized funds, some 326 billion dollars. So it's a total of about 719 billion bucks. and describes the scope. How this is distributed precisely by the lines or the range as a function. A senator, who was then only announcementable or registered, explained as much as has been done in the bill. What I meant in my first answer was that, of course, here are both domestic funds and would fall under the supervision of the Commission and, as it is known, foreign funds that follow events are then dependent on local control and are marketed in Iceland. The exact way in which the intervening process is unknown at this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u102	A respectable president. This is where I recommend a bill to legalize the loan companies and stock companies on deck. 426. This is a case of No. 361. The bill provides a new overall basis for the submission of loans and stock companies, which introduce the main directive 2014/59/ESB, for the restoration and re-treatment of loan institutions and stock companies, called the BRRD directive. In addition to the new overall return therapy contracts, there is a fixed change in financial enterprises law as well as on investment insurance and insurance laws. The bill is different from the long largest stage of the implementation of the BRRD directive, a part of which has already been introduced by law No. 54/2018, about a change in financial law. The bill contains guidelines relating to return therapy and how to prevent, prepare and perform such procedures. It is suggested that the implementation of the rules will be largely in the hands of units within the Iceland Seurla Bank, which is the source of the separation of the authority to separate from the other activities of the Central Bank. The bill also stipulates the creation of a fund system called a return fund, which is intended to finance therapy procedures if such a procedure becomes necessary. The bill suggests that the so - called return fund will become a special division in the insurance collection of depositors and investors. It is then suggested that the fund be built up by transfer of funds for two years from the deposit department of depositors and investors. In the future, the return fund is planned to be based on a currency based on European rules, but the size of the fund should be 1% of the committed cores by the end of 2027. The bill suggests 1.2 billion dollars. The year 2020, and the same amount of money a year later, from the deposit department of insurance to the return fund. The BRRD directive is extensive and contains both complex materials and a separation of the new organisation, i.e. The money and the money. I've thought it important that at the level of the export here in the country, new organisations will be placed in an economic setting, including, in a practical way. so that as little cost as possible comes from both government and financial businesses. Now, I'm going to begin with the basic subject of the bill. First, there is a return plan set up for credit institutions and the occurrences of a larger stock company. The submission schedule should state the measures that can be taken during the reporting therapy of an enterprise and the implementation of the procedure. Second, there is the assessment of an enterprise's return site. The provision should therefore be made to assess whether an enterprise is relevant, but this indicates whether it can be taken into account in due treatment or treatment without significantly affecting financial systems and financial stability. This assessment is intended to ensure that upon returning therapy the necessary activities of the enterprise can be maintained. Third, there is a new requirement for making your own budget, called a minimum budget for your personal capital and a fitting commitment. The requirement is to prevent loan institutions, and if we are at the stock market, the building of their commitments will allow them to be suspended. So the enterprises under the rules need to have enough money and commitments to deal with their losses and to re-create their own financial resources for a return therapy so that companies can continue to meet the requirements for working permit. Fourth, there are steps to be taken to ensure the improvement and the conversion of capital gains. The purpose of this selection is to respond to the loss of an enterprise and reimburse it. These are milder measures than those that require formal return therapy and may therefore include the following: Have your resources taken to protect your company from return therapy. The premise that this will be used is the decision by the FESI that it is necessary for a business to be operational. Fifth, there are regulations in the bill on valuation of possessions and commitments. In the relevant chapter of the bill, there are three types of values to be considered. Digitation plays a complex role, including evaluation of the conditions required for taking a company for submission, the extent of conversion, or the change of commitment, as well as how holding property and commitment will be provided and what payment will be paid for the future. A sixth call to mention the return therapy decision, but a company will not be accepted for submission unless three conditions are met. First, an enterprise has to be on its own, second, it is a requirement not to expect the presence of a private person or public action to prevent the fall of the company within an acceptable period of time, and third, it is necessary to return treatment because of the public interest. The decision to submit therapy is made by the Pentateuch, but is subject to the pre-contracted financial and financial secretary. 7th, I call attention to the main subject of the bill, which is a law of return and release. The so - called billing process is four, first of all, the sale of the business, second of which to the bridge agency, the third, the dissociation of property, and the fourth. These measures can be applied to the return treatment of an enterprise either combined or independent. The releases are so diverse and are designed to ensure effective return therapy and implementation of the return process. The last item I'd like to mention regarding your return therapy is a law on official financial standards. This special name indicates that the talk is intended to ensure stability in financial markets and public interests. In the case of the hearing, a minister can on behalf of the State, under special and unusual circumstances, contribute funds to his own money in exchange for stocks or other certificates. However, under the same circumstances, the State can temporarily take over a business by handing up property in it. The possession of the State can then be directly or indirectly through a society or society owned by it. However, it is important to note that the core objective of the bill is to minimize the risk of making contributions from the Kingdom Fund. Thus, the so - called official financial standards are a means of emergency, which should only be used when other resources of the bill fail. The talk is given under strict conditions, and it seems proper to make it clear that they are permitted to be used under certain circumstances, but such a situation is not related. In addition to the material that I have now traced, there are some changes in financial law due to their linking with the regulations of the bill. Finally, I'd like to say that in the bill there is a strict change in the law of investing insurance and insurance systems for investors. These changes are not directly based on the materials of the BRRD directive but are necessary because of its interconnection with the BRD insurance directive. Changes include new definitions of the terms insurance-separated complexs and guarantees that have significant significance, where depositors of the trust have further protection according to the criteria of the bill. These new definitions also convert the share of the shares into the deposit fund of depositors and investors. The bill finally holds the basis for a change in insurance protection. It is suggested that insurance protection is on the list at an average of 100,000 euros in the United States, which is now about 13.8 billion. K. It is estimated that in each financial enterprise, protection will be limited to this amount per person. In accordance with local law, there is no limit to insurance protection, but minimum insurance is the equivalent of $2087 euros, now worth $2.9 million in Icelandic. K. A respectable president. The bill provides a new overall framework for loan management and stock market companies and therefore recommends the number of changes aimed at maintaining financial stability and minimising the negative consequences of financial failures under public interest. This bill is extensive, but despite its scope, its sources are much comparable to the sources hidden by the words of an emergency song in the autumn of 2008. Then there are various resources and actions of the bill in many respects comparable to the measures taken on the basis of the emergency law that followed the great difficulties created here during the financial breakdown. Many of the elements of the bill are thus well - known to us Icelanders, for there are some measures that were taking place here on land with success in rebuilding the banking system. Finally, I think it is proper to mention that the BRRD directive was adopted in the EEA Convention 9 February 2018 and will be used in the European Economic Area in the following months. The subject of the bill I recommend here is the long way of completing the directive's implementation. If the bill is accepted as a law from the Council, it will only implement the specific regulations of the directive that have to do with the payment and payment for its financing. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee, after the end of this discussion and then through 2nd. At the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u103	Mr. President. Here's another big bill, but it's all a little more familiar. It's nice to see another team in the lead of BRRD coming in, and I appreciate it. But I would like to ask you some points. One thing is simply concerning this authority. Here we are creating another independent union within the Federal Bank that has just been brought together by UNEP. Could this arrangement make up some kind of custom, that there would be a lot of independent units within the Internet bank, or to stop here? You can imagine how this could get out of hand as more regulations require more of the Chinese population. I also wondered when the authorities are going to prepare plans for an enterprise, whether it is a standing plan for each company of a specific size, and then based on some stage films and assessment of their own money, possessions, and debts, or whether these things happen when it is judged either to be a bad company or to be over some particular limit. In this context, I ask, is it not important that some kind of classified state be made up of plans because of the impact it would have on the company's market status if it was found to be in some kind of government therapy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u104	A respectable president. There is good reason to agree with the anxieties that are expressed in words. The senator that a new ward is born to monitors by each new directive. The fact is, though, that we are going through a period of time now, as we are simply rewriting all the financial markets. It is true that new phenomena, such as the publication, will exist, but when we consider the basic thoughts behind this new arrangement, as I agreed in my case, to recall in my mind the thoughts of the law of distress at the time and the measures taken by the FEC in this regard. It is a pleasure not only to see that the basic thoughts in the meantime became a major part of the European principle of action to be taken when companies are no longer able to deliver money markets. The bill discusses all the details that apply to these conditions, including the work of the return authority. We are only on the inside, and it is extremely important to realize how many walls of defense have actually been built for a financial breakdown that can be compared to what has been valid so far. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u105	Mr. President. I haven't really learned how this process is going to be done. It would be very good if I could get a clue about what I asked about at the highest level. Minister, but I thank him for his first response, which was very good and useful. You see, it is important to understand how these laws will work to identify where the authority would enter certain institutions. I ask again, and it's only as high as I can. The minister last mentioned in his speech, i.e. that several factors in the bill are not directly involved in the implementation of the directive but due to the integration of factors. This is one of the things people have different opinions about, but I say for my part, I would have found it more convenient to see such regulations as a special bill because it is much easier to understand the limits between the European directive and its implementation and then again the laws that are designed to adapt our system to our home bridges. But I'll stop here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-11-11-29.u106	A respectable president. Questions for return planning and submission are discussed in the IIIs. section of the bill including it tells you that the authorities do such a plan for an enterprise where specific details need to be made. This schedule will be reviewed regularly and updated if necessary. Then there is a detailed description of what happens when problems arise. They call for cooperation and conversation with the SEC, as well as the management of the relevant financial organisations that in such cases need to show that certain conditions are met. I've traced it here that it was in extreme circumstances that the state stepped in, but the basic thoughts of these defenses, as I mentioned earlier, are that a business can be continued without the difficulties leading to bankruptcy as we know it. There are a lot of new terms that set, for example. Necessary contracts, in a whole new context. A traditional way to get into trouble, but you think that some sort of emergency contracts could be saved. For financial companies, credit agencies, and stock companies, however, there is an entirely new world developing by measures and organisations involved in the monitoring and implementation of the factors to be considered. [[The president calls.]] I allow myself to say that to a certain extent, this can be compared to what happens in forced agreements.
