ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u1	Mr. President. This weekend, the council, the ISI, begins here in Reykjavík. It will be put in a pore, and many important subjects will be on the program for that assembly. I'd especially like to draw attention to the fact that it is important for us to consider the circumstances of our national sports sectors, not only the handball, but also the basketball and the sports games, in the pursuit of these sports. I want to put special emphasis on, and lay down anyone who wants to, both basketball and handball. It is clear that the palace as it is now, there is an impressive monument, impressive design that we could be proud of at the time it was built and that it has naturally hosted many marvelous sports events in our history - yet it is clear that, based on modern requirements, international requirements, for our national teams and if we want to continue to have the national games here at home, we need to consider maping and putting down for ourselves what future events should be for these key sports features of our Iceland. football is in a specific direction, but its branches need special outdoors. I know the city of Reykjavík has taken a good look at this and wants to go to diagnostics. However, the government needs to come into our affairs and be part of the solution, come to map out the future needs and possibilities for us athletes and women, and how we can continue to keep our minds fixed on these articles that have warmed the nation for years. So I encourage the government, and especially the highest. A minister of education to welcome us to map the design of these events and to see if we need a new palace at once. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u2	A respectable president. I often think about it, in the short time since I first sat down to a council, the way our work and carefulness are in the process of payment. I have to admit, that's where I think we can do a lot better. There may be two things that I'm thinking about right now, both very large matters; one on the other, the Union of the Navy and the World Health Organization; the other, the government financial program, where the council is supposed to have an extraordinary time to complete the same huge issues. If we look at the financial program to begin with, the obvious fact is that its economic foundations are smiling and we are here in neutral gear, waiting for a new national interest project to come, hopefully after a week, in order to start working on a financial program that we should finish in two to three weeks according to a work programme. The obvious thing about the situation is that nothing is being won't be won in a financial program at the moment, because it knows everyone who looks at it will have it in our hands is out of the question. The same is true when we discuss together the Secret Service and the SEC. Here, for the first time in almost two decades, we're dealing with legislation on the Bank of Iceland, the money policy, the one of the most important economic institutions in the country. The Parliament should have about four weeks to complete that work. I don't think this is an acceptable procedure, Mr. President, and I don't believe it else, e.g. especially in the most important case, since many major issues of opinion have already been adopted. A financial and business committee, but that we're going to have some time to complete as big and as important as four weeks or so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u3	A respectable president. Now at lunchtime, we can here at the General Assembly expect our peace of mind to be lost when a weekly climatic strike takes place in the East, to remind me of the 11th week in a row. The climate is high in the minds of many in the community, and according to the world's leading scientists, it is important to have faster hands if people are going to live much longer on earth. There are many things you can do and things that are already in the process, as we know so well here. We'll be talking about energy, energy change, and various ways of making environment transport and vehicles. Therefore, I would like to call attention to the article entitled Sigurður Ingi Friðleifsson, director of Power Station, which appeared in the core of the last weekend. There he made methadone his subject and how useful it is here on land. Metagas is a Swedish and noncarbon fuel that is directly involved in human production, which is derived from organic waste. Many are rightly concerned about the consumption of human society, the root cause of climate problems. It is difficult to change your pattern of consumption and eliminate all waste and waste. However, methadone is one solution, especially when governments have set ambitions for energy exchange and for changes in the country's motor fleet. In Akureyri, the city's streets have been rocked by record carts for some time, and here in the capital area, there are two metal cars in the bus bus trade. ... witha coupleofpreviouscars. A respectable president. It can be better if it's enough. The car fleet is not the only solution, and for a long time, methadones may be a more convenient and more accessible solution to the public if the solution is available.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u4	A respectable president. What's going to happen to me? Each year, 101 children ask themselves this question, when they have lost a parent. Last week the living room published statistics over the number of children who lose their parents each year, an average of 101 children. There is a high number, and there are many things that happen in the life of a young child when it loses a parent who puts it in a very delicate position. This last Thursday was held by a seminar entitled "What Happens to Me? " There, the president of Iceland, ministers, and other matters were held there. It was entrusted with the fact that at the General Assembly, we developed a legal policy by accepting a bill for the treatment of a welfare committee, about the rights of children as partners. It discusses how children will be given the right to stay in touch with the parent's family and is part of their child's safety network and answer the question about what happens to them, who will be in the safety network after the death of their parent. Another important factor in this bill is to provide the opportunity for certain persons within the system to have a certain organization in ensuring the well - being of their children, to ensure that they receive adequate information services, that their rights are guaranteed under these circumstances, and that support will be held out by the child's youth. [[The president calls.]] I trust we'll finish this case right here and get them to safety. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u5	Mr. President. Congress is stuck in the middle of 2nd. about a pregnancy break-in bill. The subject deserves careful and balanced discussion, and I'm shocked. Congress members who participate in the discussion to be balanced in their choice of words on that subject. The issue centers on the right of authority and the self - determination of women about their own body. That is a key factor in the matter and the perspective we should look at it from the beginning. To me, it's not about a week count. It is about each woman's own advice on her own, and it can never be that public or professional people should tell women what is best for them and what decisions they should make. Women, of course, are to be counseled and informed if they are followed, but the decision is for the woman. The fact is, having the highest freedom in those substances has not resulted in an increase in the rate of pregnancy ruptures. On the contrary, there is evidence that pregnancy breakes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u6	Mr. President. I'm going to allow myself to use this opportunity to talk only about the activities of the council. Without going into the material about the third pack of energy, it is discussed, and the treatment that exists is now considered to be a subject of thought to me. I wondered, " Is the careful study now carried out at the Generals' scene on this matter not to be made so much sooner in the process? ' We are faced with a decision that has already been taken at the scene of the joint EEA committee. As one knows, decisions in that field are almost legal. When considering the matter carefully - and here are a number of opinions, very good - men, e.g. before the talk in a broad voice, the Fear of Friðrik Árni Fridrik Friðriksson of Hirst and Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson. When discussing this European energy agency, it says that it will be taken into account, with the permission of a president: ...to the decision-making authority of the foreign organisation under Regulation No. 713/2009 takes at least Implementation and provision of the nation's important energy resource Now we're told, at least of some, that there may be serious consequences if the Council does not agree to the uninterrupted implementation of this Regulation No. 713. There's a bit of an uncomfortable tone in it and a bit of a threat and it's leading the mind toward Cuba and North Korea. [[The president calls.]] But in any case, I'd like to allow myself to bring up the subject here whether it needs to be reviewed by the Generals' Regulation on the matter so that it will move much further into the process than it is now, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u7	President. I was going to use my time to talk about everything else, but I quickly changed my mind when I heard a talk. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Is remnant. He calls for discussions on the activities of the council and the third energy package, and it's probably happening. This morning's meeting with the State Department and Business Committee showed how the procedure has been conducted. A third energy package was introduced into the European Union in 2009, and Iceland had the opportunity to make comments for that induction, certainly. Then, from 2009 onward, he was a member of the joint committee. Hv. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Isafasunsson should know that this has happened some years ago, on the council committees. There are books and approved opinions in meeting plans, e.g. Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee. The Icelandic government gave specific warnings about a number of aspects of this directive, but since 2009,2017 has never been given notice of any of the causes. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson and others who share his opinion have the highest concern here in our discussion. No government that sat in those years gave any advance, nor did any government that sat on the 20133/42016, in order to be made clear. I agree with what. A senator wants us to discuss how we get on with the EEA sooner. That's exactly what it is. Government's doing. She is setting up extra money to care for Iceland's interests in the EU so that we can put our comments ahead of what we do today and try to influence things more than we do today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u8	A respectable president. I'm going back to the same place as what. A senator stopped before me about the third energy package and what's about to turn it. I'm just about to step in on what came into the budget right now. We're putting 160 million in the budget to protect Iceland's interests on the EEA deal to Brussels. I think we're adding eight points just to monitor our interests more closely in that large context and to get into the process earlier. We have also been changing the way people want to approach it. I'm one of those guys. The members of the Independence Party, an agnostic over a year ago. The situation has changed considerably since then in the material process that has taken place over the last 14 months. Many articles and legal views have been written, and other things have been written to pass through this matter. My concern was, first of all, that if a cable were to come, it would have to be in full custody, out of Icelandic interests. That was the basic point of that matter. Now the discussion has been filling up, and last this morning, at a joint meeting of the employment committee and the State Department, which was open to the media, we discussed the third energy package. It Pétursson that the third energy package, as presented before the council, and the Birgir on a Tjörvi, should be discussed here and agreed. It's perfect for Iceland's interests. It has no effect on the custody of Icelanders over the electricity resource, the immensely important resource we share. This need be clear in our discussion that we need to discuss the matter in a much more material way and to take care of the facts in every way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u9	V.E.G. President. I especially wanted to respond to a word. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, on the other hand, has a discussion on financial matters and on the Federal Bank bill. Now it is, though the word may have caused another to prevail. The senator, that these cases were presented here at the end of March, before a period of time. In fact, it is legal in the case of financial programmes that it has to appear at a certain time. It was successful to do so on time this year, unlike the past few years. Thus, there is no less time to finance financial programs now than the law assumes, and there is a custom. In a way, it's just around the corner. A senator may change with a change in national interest plan, but I do not see it having or being able to interfere with matters at the council. The financial agenda is special in that it is legal that it should be submitted every year, and the council needs to pay attention to it and give time to the procedure necessary to complete its payment in a sizable way. I don't think there's any reason to suggest that there's some way out of the question right now. I mean, for the UN Bank bill, that's the same thing. The bill appeared here at the end of March, and it was recommended, if I recall correctly, April 1. Therefore, the Senate does not have a month, as we shall see. A senator, two to cover it. It will then be determined by the Committee and the Council as a whole how much energy must be put into that matter and how much consideration it needs to be applied. I agree with what. A senator's concern is that this is an important matter that deserves much attention, and there are many things that are not entirely related to it. But I don't think there's any reason to suggest that there's not enough work to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u10	A respectable president. Here comes a lot of numbers in a speech, because I'm going to discuss a little bit about the time of the secretary's reply to inquiries. According to Congress, the Ministers and President of 15 have effective days to answer queries, and at the present time, this is the situation, i.e. since this morning: On average, the president has answered queries in 13 weekdays, very well done. No one else has been able to answer within the specified time frame. Foreign Minister has a total of 59 days on average, social and child-friendly Ministers 24 days and social and social equality prior to 39 days, prime minister 22 days, minister of education and culture 52 days, travel, industrial and child development ministers 37, Environment and Resource Ministers 39, Economic and Economic Affairs 43, Sea leviation and Agriculture Ministers 26, Transport and Ministers 24, Health Ministers 27 and Ministers 37. Minister of Justice has answered most inquiries, or 44. This is, in any case, much longer than expected in the Senate, where 15 days of active days are expected, and, of course, some queries are extensive. That is why I would like to commend at least two stewards for certain new words. On the one hand, I would like to commend the minister of foreign affairs, as it has been shown in inquiry how much time went in the progress of the queries. It is very good to receive such information in order to gain an overview of the scope of the inquiry, for this request is definitely to be taken into account, but it may take ten weeks. There's a pretty big gap between those which may have to be bridges, for queries can easily be between the length of the reply time. On the other hand, I would like to commend a health minister who answered just recently two questions that did not come from all institutions, but she gave the answer at a reasonable time without answering. Then you just ask again. So it explains who is delaying the situation and may be moved to return at the right time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u11	A respectable president. Many major labour market partners are currently in stock agreements. But if you are an invalid, ask yourself, " What about us? ' Where's our dresser? To them, I'd like to say, the only thing the disability can produce is that of the collective agreements that were made with the unions, Ephlinga, etc. There is a decrease in taxes and some other items that the ASI biographer contract includes, but there are no more centenarians, no actual dressbacks that actually increase income for forwards or makes possible for them. It is only January 1st of every year that this so - called legal correction is carried out, according to such factors. Sixty-niner. Social Security Act. In fact, this article clearly states that this improvement should follow pay development in the country as long as the level of pay development does not depend on the consumption scale. It hasn't been done. This hasn't been followed, Mr. Honorable President, for years. I've said to the highest. Secretary of finance: The people's party will sue on the behalf of disability. We want to test what we call a misuse of power toward the smallest of our brothers and sisters, but their losses are unsettled. In fact, it has been observed that no one in the community is worse than this social group, those who are desperate to help themselves, or who carry a hand over their heads. When our case, on behalf of our senior citizens, leads to the National Court for the main treatment on Monday, we will face a national policy on disability and test the abuse of power that we believe has been promoted by the government for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u12	Mr. President. All of us can agree that business dealings with other nations are necessary for us and that our prosperity is the basis for our prosperity. A major decision, political and policy market, was made in 1994 when Iceland became a member of the European Economic Area. In most estimates, that decision was a step forward. At that time, the record of the contract was carefully reviewed, whether or not our constitution would be broken. It wasn't. The discussion of the third energy package has attracted the nation's attention to energy policies as well as foreign policy. We have a lot of fear that by agreeing with the third energy package, we will lose power over our resources and allow greedy privates to control them. It's not. In fact, there is no legal disagreement. People are also surprised that although we are not connected to the market, we are going to adopt rules that apply to a European energy market. This is because we are members of the European Economic Area, and we decided 25 years ago to introduce European regulations and participate in this cooperation. The Joint EEA Committee is a site where countries can adapt their regulations to the situation in their country. There the flexibility lies, not in rejecting rules when adaptation has taken place. I attended a recent annual convention of the University of Iceland on international matters. The discussion on Baltrexit included to the most common search words for Google in the United Kingdom, the day after the Bgreit election, were: 'What is the European Union?' and ◯ Why are the British in the European Union? We see what wrong information has led the British. Yeah, in a lot of trouble that doesn't cover the end. Mr. President. It's worth a thought. Misinformation can have a very damaging effect and, in fact, undermined by democracy. The energy package discussion has given you a lot of information, and you wonder what's behind those who keep the wrong information in the air. Do they want us to cancel our EU contracts and drop our partnership? I'd like to know. That would be in order, and we could talk about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u13	A respectable president. I'd like to discuss the discussion on the third energy package, which is probably the subject of what is the greatest wolf spray among Icelanders these days. I would like to remind people that the third pack of energy is a collection of written documents. There is nothing approved of him who is not written down somewhere, and it is possible to read, analyze, and reason. It may be difficult to find out exactly where the information is found, but the point is that the nature and effect of the third energy package are tested to anyone with time and patience. Sadly, the debate takes place in extreme emotional temperatures, with greater ambitions to identify who should be called a traitor and each isolationist. Each side accuses the other of not carefully examining the material. Although Karp about who is the smartest is by nature an uninteresting debate, it is quite as easy to keep a wrong perspective on what this is over the years if you were primarily exposed to a lack of information. I'd like to direct everyone in the discussion wherever they stand that there's a lot of bad information in traffic. That should be undisputed. A third energy package is often said to be complex, but after examining it, I would describe it differently. It would be better to say that his fragrances are many, not necessarily complex, than many. After a collapse, blood temperature and uncontrolled anger have been treated with undeserved respect as an instrument of conviction, but no matter how legitimate or understandable such feelings may be, they also weaken the ability to discuss things objectively and from common facts, even those that all agree on. There is no disagreement that energy resources in Iceland are our energy sources. No senator has forgotten his name to the constitution. There's some disagreements about a lot of things that have to do with it, not with these things. On the contrary, meditation, thought, open mind, and active listening are not mere virtues when everything is calm and low but when emotions are the most hot and when the most important things are at stake. We can be very businesslike, calm, polite, and understanding. [[The president calls.]] Let's do it now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u14	Mr. President. The latest news of WOW's fallen airline shows us how badly the government and the government's agencies stood in their last semester of their work. The latest change that occurred yesterday and may naturally go further must require a special study of how Isavia ohf dealings were dealt with. and WOW were treated as well as between Istavia and the Grouping Room. In November of last year, the Central Party received a special discussion on WOW. In itself, when you review that discussion, there was no way in the matter of a travel minister's case that there were special reasons to be careful about where it was headed. It also appears in the news during the day that a minister's committee had held 15 meetings on the possible fall of WOWair from August of the first August to March 28. I have to admit, I don't quite understand what they've been asking me about what's been discussed, unless the weather has been discussed. About my year last year, WOW's debt was probably to Isa, um... One billion bucks. When it reached the end of the year, the airline stopped paying legal fees, such as the pension fees of their employees. Last year, a very long time ago, the company was actually unauthorized. Still, men sat by and did nothing but prepare for the transfer of a non - government passenger. There's a special place in town to do that. I ask again, what were men doing at 15 conferences on WOW that month? No sense at least.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u15	Mr. President. What's the word on the Avenger's campaign of fishing? What's the word on the deliveries from the Faeroe Islands? I can tell you the news about the deliveries of the Faeroe Islands in macrovota. Their latest exposure to macroil was April 29, 2000. One - year, three - year - old, and eight - year - olds were offered, and the cost of the common fund that flows into the emissary is an average of 6.6k. 5'3"K. Icelandic. A quilt of mackerel went to 113 k. ... withthelastteoutsofTheevenges. How many crowns do we get into our government fund for a kilo of mackerel? In the fall, the government groups agreed that the price would be 3K. and 55 pennies. It's more than 30 times less than in the Faeroe Islands. The difference between the deliveries of the Faeroe Islands and the fishing costs on the land is 3,080%. The Icelandic fishing fee is 3.14% of the skills, but it so happens, President, that the average ratio is almost equal to the number pi. Mr. President. That's gonna have to be explained, and I'm gonna challenge him. Senators on a professional committee who cooperates with the Government's macrollar bill to demand an explanation. If handled properly, the offer of injustice in this country, which means that the benefits of economic management within the fishing system fall into the pockets of few people who live in the sea to carry the cost. There's a sale at labor markets in Iceland. Thus, it is not only directed by government agencies, and the benefits do not flow into a government fund but also in the pocket of laymen renting out the salutations that the State has distributed to them at multiple times the cost of fishing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u16	Mr. President. We're here to vote on 2 and 3. About Section 3. they are moving the age limit to a warrant for sterilization down to 18 years. In current legislation, this is 25 years old and we have followed the North countries. I don't see why we're bringing this age limit down to 18 years and recommending that we follow the North countries in this regard. So I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u17	A respectable president. The result is more than that. The welfare committee is correct. Although she may be difficult, she is correct. It is true because we are here dealing with laws that must be taken up and put a frame around every possible example and incident that may arise and cause a woman to consider pregnancy break. We are not here to answer questions about whether we or our closest person are going to leave or have a pregnancy break in or out of the circumstances in which we lived. I understand and respect that people don't want to take such action, and they don't want anyone else to do it either, but we here can never negotiate the beautiful things that should not lead to pregnancy breaking or the difficult, ugly, or bad experiences that should allow them to be allowed to do so. Those who are familiar with these matters best, female and obstetricians, midwives, and sociologists, the people who know the examples, know the viability of the fetus, the people who have so far had to face individuals in their most difficult periods, call for changes in these laws, and the people proposed for the 22 weeks here. [[The president calls.]] Thank you. A committee and anyone who sent in reviews of this delicate and difficult matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u18	President. In 1975, when current legislation was adopted, there were three women at a council. Today we are 24. There should be more of us, but we are 24. Hopefully, these laws will change that we bring the self - determination right to women when it comes to the decision to break a pregnancy. Today, a woman is allowed to break her pregnancy up to week 22 - if she meets the legal requirements, which are handled by physicians and health care professionals. The bill that we now vote for guarantees women's self - determination rights up to week 22. We're not extending clearance, we're just making sure that the woman is in charge of it herself. You're welcome. That makes sense. It's just. I'd like to thank you very much. Healthcare Minister for providing this important bill. It's amazing that we're finally going to be right about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u19	A respectable president. It's really sad when you listen to the Chairman here. The welfare committees clearly state that we have this exact authority, until the end of week 22. The bill suggests that abortion will be permitted until the end of the 22nd week of pregnancy, from whether it is a healthy child at that time or not. It involves merely a mother's decision, and there is no one here to say that this decision is not scary and difficult. Besides, no one here is talking about the extremes, the sad situations that may arise, when and if circumstances arise that a mother is advanced in pregnancy, that she may not get her release. In reality, though, this is morally wrong. I feel like I'm having to be a part of this. I certainly say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u20	Mr. President. We are here making a decision on the woman's self - determination rights. These are women's battles for decades. It is a joy to know that this is the decision made by the Allied Parliament. This is what this vote is about. We are bringing legislation in Iceland for more than 40 years, to modern view, and to harmony with modern view. I want to thank the head of the welfare committee and the executive for the case's excellent work and good cooperation with this case, and I thank the health minister for the vision of putting it into practice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u21	A respectable president. We hereby vote for delicate matters, a bill for a pregnancy break-out bill, which appoints large groups in the community in contrast. It is moral, religious, and legal. A cultured background floats over the lakes. The Company will vote with this bill. These are women's grand rights, one of the biggest in history. I say, let's trust women. And I also say, Hooray!
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u22	Mr. President. Today, we vote on one of the biggest women's freedoms that has ever happened to this council in this century. What a joy it is that the matter has been brought to this location during this assembly! Congratulations, ladies. On the way, legislation on our fertility freedom is based on judgment by experts and health - care professionals who provide this service to women. At the same time, however, the situation actually reveals the position of those senators who do not trust the opinion of the experts, who do not trust women to have fertility freedom. This reveals their real stand. That one. Congress officials can say: "I, too, and HeForshe, but their real attitude toward women's freedom is expressed in terms of confidence in the self - determination rights of women over their own bodies. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u23	A respectable president. We vote on a very delicate matter. It was a very difficult step to come here yesterday and give the opinion of the 2nd minority of the Committee, where I considered the case on the basis of which I have grown up, the Christian foundation. Was harvested by this laughter and giggling, demeaning comments from a few of the councilmen. I have to say, when we're talking about as serious a case as an abortion, taking a life, we don't have to do such a great thing here in the Senate Hall. This may be the case, such as when other less minor matters are discussed - and I have not been innocent of them - but under these circumstances we should not. I will certainly say no to this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u24	A respectable president. 104 years after we adopted women's right to vote, we here vote for the custody of women over their own body. Can't we all agree with that? Each of us can have a personal view of this and apply it in our lives. But here we are stressing that the woman is responsible for her own body, makes her own decision, and bears this responsibility throughout her life. So we can have these views, keep them to ourselves - but accept the self - indulgent rights of women over their own body.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u25	Mr. President. Most likely there are few subjects that are more delicate than the question of pregnancy, or of an abortion, as I have used to talk about. I'm in the middle of a rock and a sledgehammer. I am, on the one hand, a firm follower of the whole bill, especially when it comes to ensuring the custody of women. That's where I'm in and I'm a tough sponsor. But I stop at this threshold in Article four. The bill, which is 22 weeks away. That's why I can't vote below with that article, but I secondly support the bill. I will not vote against Article four. When she comes. I do this with confidence that the welfare committee will take the matter back to treatment and see if we can find a greater solidarity in such a delicate matter as this. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u26	A respectable president. There are 1,040 abortions a year, 40 because of medical measures. We're supposed to be calling our alarm bells. We should not assume that this is a self-centered thing. We're supposed to go to the other end and start prevention, give birth control, free of charge. We should start somewhere other than 22 weeks. An embryo that has reached the age of 22 weeks is fully developed, and we should see to it in all other ways, by education and by other means, that something is done in these matters rather than in this way. I'm one of those guys who thinks life is sacred, and I'm proud of it. That's why I'm gonna say no to this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u27	President. This is an indistinguishable sensitive subject. It's a moral opinion, it's a social opinion, and it has to do with things in this matter, not just the duration. This particular issue, however, is about who will make the decision at the end of the day. It is not a break-in unless it is decided. Is that decision better placed in the hands of undefined experts in the town or in the hands of the concerned women? I say it must be that way if we believe in another kind of society that has individual freedom and responsibilities and that we choose ourselves to build up such a society. That's why I'm saying yes to this bill. That's why a group of council members say yes to this bill. It's a matter of individual freedom. It is about the woman's freedom to control her own body, her own life, her own feelings, and her own future. We don't have a specialisation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u28	Mr. President. Governments are not supposed to provide so much permission for abortion, which, if this bill is legal, will become the greatest in the northern countries. The matter is very controversial and delicate. Governments are to ensure the best available maternal protection and economic and social conditions that encourage women to support their lives. The life that God gave and has promised to bless.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u29	Mr. President. Of course, I support women's self-determination rights and their authority over their own bodies, etc., but I'm in such a state that I have a very difficult time with the duration of this bill, 22 weeks. I'm just having a really hard time with her. I can't help but support an embryo that is practically fully developed and viable and that falls into the womb. I can't get past that picture, unfortunately. So it all makes it very difficult for me on this matter. My position on the whole bill will, of course, appear at the time when we vote. But if those 22 weeks weren't there, I'd support this whole thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u30	A respectable president. I'm waiting for sermons from what? paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson of proper behavior at the Assembly Hall. I'm not trying to be funny. On the other hand, I have full respect for people's approach to matters from their own moral standards, which can certainly be based on the Christian faith. I don't make comments about that. But this bill doesn't build it. By taking the right of self - determination to pregnant women themselves, it is, of course, their own moral code, whether it is based on religious belief, humanism, or any other authority, in accordance with national law. It is good and blessed that people embrace Christianity, but it is not good and blessed to foist on their other beliefs by reducing the self - determination rights of others with the law of the land. It's about who makes the decision, not whether each of us here will believe in this god or in the other. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u31	V.E.G. President. Granted, it is women's self - determination, and most of us probably respect it. No longer do experts need to state whether a woman will make a decision or not. However, the same experts suggest that we carry the line for 22 weeks. That's very thought - provoking to me. In the second, we say that we do not need our experts. In the other word, we say to apply what they say. I think it is sobering to consider why we do not stick to the first 18 weeks of our life. Why is that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u32	Madam President. When I was making a decision on what my real responsibility was in this case, i.e. as a senator changing this law, I thought: The rights of the woman must always be that she has the right to wish that life in her body is removed, she has the right to it. Where, then, do rights or obligation come from? Our duty comes in if the government can keep this life alive, then it's the government's job. It is the same as when doctors and experts tell us that the limit is 22 weeks. Before that time, the fetus is not viable. It's the same thing with decisions we make about people who have brains. Then there are some who decide whether to unplug. The information from experts tells us when the fetus is viable, when it can be kept alive in the life that a woman has a right to take, that is, 22 weeks. [[The president calls.]] That's what I needed to know in order to make that decision. I vote with the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u33	Mr. President. I support women's own rights to resolve. I'll say yes to it as well as to the bill, and I'll make some adjustments to the majority of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u34	A respectable president. I respect the self-important rights of women. There's no one who tells me to have an abortion unless I decide. No one else would make that decision for me. But this duration, 22 weeks - it doesn't matter whether the child is healthy or not - is so far above the level of wealth that I could face morally, that I can in no way accept it. That's why we make these adjustments. The law's worked pretty well so far. Women have been given 1,044 a year to have their abortion without any rejection. There is no reason for us to clear the law so immensely.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u35	A respectable president. I'll say yes to this proposal. I don't agree that time should be extended until week 22. As the law has been, no woman in Iceland has been denied abortion. There's no record. This was specifically stated in the panel's study and was specifically asked about it, and it is not written that any woman in Iceland had ever been denied an abortion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u36	Mr. President. First, this adjustment from the 3rd World Health Committee appears to be a misunderstanding because it now narrows down to 12 weeks with 16 weeks now, i.e. the absence of pregnancy, and the potential for longer if specific and serious causes are present. So this article does not make what the moveees suggest to do. [[Up front.]] - I'm good-looking, huh? paritaprevir Sæland hareland. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u37	Silence in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u38	When I read the text, I understand it quite well, in contrast to what's happened. environ men of this proposal, who press the current right by this adjustment proposal. I say no to this suggestion, I recommend that everyone do it and, of course, hope to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u39	A respectable president. Today, the fifth pregnancy is terminated, and we should ask ourselves: " We should try to find all the other ways, and there should be a set of free contraception programs, education. Everything should have been tried. We're supposed to have bells ringing when every five pregnancy is broken. That's why I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u40	Mr. President. I will not vote on Section 4. ... likeI cametohere. This, I trust, will take the matter back into consideration by the welfare committee and now attempt to create greater harmony in this delicate matter. It is my only wish that this experiment be made, and they listen to the delicate voices that have been presented here. So I won't vote, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u41	Mr. President. At the agreement now proposed to be referred to by the government, the United Nations Child Rights Committee on the implementation of the Children's Convention in Iceland, the Committee on Children's Rights and Childbearing Social Services to Children and Families and the European Council on Protecting Children From Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse was followed. A report by the Children's Office agent and the main concerns of its office was also followed and looked for family policy companies, reduced work time, and make work time more flexible and how to ensure that parents can better care for their children, e.g. Because of their illness or disability, the third optional book on the United Nations Convention on the Children's Covenant will be legalized, as well as the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. It would have been best for Mr. President to accept this good suggestion. [[The president calls.]] The second best thing is to show her to the government. The motion received a very good statement, which I hope the government also accepts as well as those who cooperate with the proposal. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u42	A respectable president. I'm on the committee's opinion of the confirmation of state account. There is little to be done today, 2019, on a 2017 bank account that is reprehensible on its own. I agree with all the tips presented in the Committee that are very good. There are a number of problems in terms of government accounts, and that is why I don't vote with a state account, but I'm staying behind all the tips mentioned in the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u43	Mr. President. This adjustment is about chain responsibilities, and it is an improvement because it supports work against social subspecies, which are neat words of the crime committed when people are robbed of their wages and rights. It is a crime, and as with other crimes, stealing is a dark act, and it will prove difficult to eliminate it. Worse yet, the victims are afraid and do not express themselves, but they are the only ones who take a risk of the crime. This is an important adjustment proposal, and I'm saying yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u44	A respectable president. This is a very good case, but the committee discussed that there were a number of other plastics that would be much larger and more important to consider, e.g. plastics that are nonrecyclable. It's a very large part of the total plastic usage. I'd like to use this opportunity to support this case even though it's much less than what we should focus our attention on, which are the major problems of plastic use, and I encourage the Allied to finish it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u45	A respectable president. I'm a plastic bagman and a plastic bag- I'll sing blues to Megas about the year, and I'll agree with it. I have offered here suggestions on not using plastic bags. This is a step in that direction and is a matter of progress. Of course, I agree with what. paritaprevir The Björn by Leví, the son of Gunnarsson, that this is only the first step in reducing the grand catastrophe for the earth and mankind that plastic abuse is taking place. So I encourage Congress to support this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u46	A respectable president. I bring here an opinion from a greater part of the employment committee on bill to correct the changing of salmon and trout law through later changes, which have been known as seal fishing. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Jóhann Guðmundsson from the Department of Professional and Newborns. This committee received reviews from the National Institute of Natural Science, the Association of Tourism and the Environment. The bill suggests that the Minister can by the regulations set up the rules for seal fishing, including for the registration of seals and the ban or restrictions of traders in the Icelandic Precinct if this is thought to be necessary in the assessment of the Marine Research Agency. The objective of the bill is to protect farms from overfishing in this country, but the bill is based on the high reduction in the number of seals on the land and the acute threat of land stems, which are listed as species of animals and plants at risk of extinction. The law is lacking in the law to allow Ministers to limit the fishing of seals. The advice of the Ecological Institute presented on June 13, 2017, is coming in, among other things. ... tothefoundingofthelandsofthe country's population. The decrease from the beginning of speech in 1980 is 77% and by the count of the summer 2016 period the population had declined by one third since 2011. According to Icelandic mammalian species's website on Iceland's Natural Science Institute, the founding is assessed in an acute danger. At the same time, the reduction in emissions has been observed, but from 1980 to 2012, the strain is estimated to be at any risk by the AIDS Institute of Natural Sciences. There is no total seal and/or seal fishing legislation, but in the salmon and trout law, the person who has a right to hunt and shoot a seal in the fishing water, its auspicate, or the sealands of hunting rights is authorized by law. A similar or similar example is set by European legislation on the limitation of fish, which includes: for fishing on property land and Internet law. The EEA's review included... It should be noted that the Regulation's Regulations were sufficient to ban or limit seal-fishing in the Icelandic Precinct, on the basis of current regulations of the 72th chapter. The Constitution, however, and in the light of current trade - fishing regulations. It was pointed out that the 9th capitilililil Jón's book guaranteed landowners the practical use right to sell in the grid, and considering the restrictions of the 1841 fishing directive, the owner's right to hunt seals within a grid law is subject to property over seals within a net layer. The possibility is that landowners will receive certain property rights as a result of segregation, so they need to consider whether the proposal is too vast to produce power. The majority points out that while a landowner has the practical right to sell in his Internet - shaped seat, the rights are the rights to the rights of other laws. For example, in the fishing waters, it is permitted to make seals, or shoot seals in a fishing lake, or a hot water area, such as 1 1............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... a layer of salmon and trout fishing. A premeditated law-change is being made in terms of the rich public interests of the EU, i.e. to protect urban populations from the endangered countries. So important interests are the basis for the change. If a decree be made by decree, such prohibition shall be established in the law, and it shall be valid for all the people of the land, including landowners. The majority further shows that if continued fishing is not carried on by segregators, especially in the country, the right to use can be ignored to the end of the population. The change of law guarantees that the ban or limitation of hunting will be set if the Narcotic Institute considers it necessary and will therefore be limited on scientific grounds. The reviews included Shows the need for a comprehensive review of seals and seal - fishing legislation. The majority of the evidence suggests that the final re-examination of seals will be undertaken. However, the situation in which we live calls for rapid failure to prevent further increase in the status of seals on the land. The majority suggest that the bill be accepted as unchanged. The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this opinion but under the opinion of the committee, as well as with what it says here, the chairman of the Commission, Signý Kristjánsdóttir Magnúsdóttir's daughter Óttarsson Proppé Elisdótý Kristjinnsdótnarsson Prappé, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Ólafur Ísleifsson and Sigurður Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u47	President. I don't know what to say. I don't know what to say with what. An authority on the need to establish these laws. I just wanted to come in on a few things. I feel that with these laws and waives. The employment committees are further committed to the work being over and around when it comes to the resource use of our Icelanders, i.e. that it rests on scientific counseling, that we go through it on the merits of sustainable development. In view of that, this bill is submitted, and it carries out our work at the moment. That's the job commission. This should be what we follow when it comes to all the use of natural resources, whether it is a fishing management or anything else that might be called the practical use of an organization, i.e. where we choose what it is, like the fish fire, and when it comes to wild birds and mammals. The more part points to the need for a full review, and that's a very good point I hope to the highest. Minister, listen. I believe that we should re-evaluate our legal environment when this is due, and that it is also in relation to the laws on protection, peace and fishing of wild birds and wild mammals, that there will be some sort of legal cleansing, and that there will be harmony and the best way to behave on these topics so that scientific approach is over and around these materials. I'm celebrating this release.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u48	Mr. President. I recommend a board of committees with a bill-change proposal to legalize the switch to income taxes, No. 90/2003, on behalf of the Economic and Business Committee. The committee met with representatives from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs and the Organization for Employment and received reviews from the Offices KPMG and PwC. The bill suggests changes to 91 str. a income tax laws, no. 90/2003, which deals with the so-called state-of- state tax returns. Hides the changes first, in that a reference level due to a mother's family's permission of state-for-state reports will be marked at euros instead of Icelandic crowns, secondly, change of 2.mg. The article on when it is mandatory to report a state of state on the domestic funds, although they do not consider themselves to be multi-national collective and third, additionally new provision of so-called maternal surrogates, i.e. surrogate parentity. Changes include: The plan to respond to the indications of OECD on the Icelandic rules for state-for- state reports. The committee was told that deadlines mentioned in G- and h- team 1st. the bill and the information for the head of state taxation would be unrealistic, since information to be announced prior to the end of the account year would not become clear until the same time point. It would be necessary to set aside spaced limits. The committee agrees with the indication and suggests that notification according to the protocol should be undertaken within one month of the end of the account. As mentioned earlier, the committee suggests changes that follow the committee's opinion, which I do not exceed my opinion. Hv. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir was absent from the case but with a view to writing a column of literature. Óli Björn's Kárason, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson son, Þorsteinn the son of Víglundsson, Brabbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Bryndís the daughter of Haraldsdóttir, Einar Kárason, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, and Smári Mccarthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u49	Mr. President. I recommend a board of committees with a bill-change proposal for card-related fees, from the Economic and Business Committee, on deck. 1385. The committee discussed the matter and was contacted by representatives from the Department of Economics and Economic Affairs. The committee received reviews from the Commission and the Neighbour Associations, as well as a joint report from the Traveller Association and the Trade and Service Association. The bill suggests that the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council 2015/751 on the cross-cutting fees for card-related pay, with appropriate adaptations, will be subject to legal requirements in this country. This Regulation includes: recommended that the debet cards pay be held at the highest level except for 0.2% of the amount of money and 0.3% of the credit card equipment. The effect of this means that the maximum pay of pay due to credit card fraud decreases by 50 percent from what is currently in this country according to the decision of the Contestant No. 8/2015 from 30 April 2015. The maximum pay on debet card records is the same as the decision made by the Contestance Commission. The subject of the bill is detailed in this series. The reviews given to the committee describe support for the development of the bill. It's under the SEC that even happens. proposed in the bill that UNECE surveillance will be carried out under the law on official financial control. The Commission already feels that the law is responsible for the management of the UNECE under the bill and therefore considers the addition unnecessary. The review of the SEC suggests that there will be some changes in Article 3. the bill on government fines. The committee takes into consideration the tips and suggests, first, a word change of 2nd speech. the law to make it clear that the maximum budget of government fines imposed by the UN is equal to 800 million. S., double the benefit of a fraction or 10% of a total score depending on the highest amount. Second, the committee suggests that the views to be considered in the decision of fines should be determined in this article. The decision to make a guilt is thus taken to account for the severity of the fracture, for the duration of the fracture, and for the duration of the fracture. At the same time, an investigation will include the cooperation of the offender. It is not a complete count of incidents; it should be noted that all relevant events can be taken into account when determining the amount of fines. Third, the Commission suggests that if a fine - level piece is not paid within a month of making a decision, it should be paid at a price. Let the Commission agree with the report that there is an additional reduction in the agreement between regulations allowing government fines due to economic crime. In this article, there is an adjustment to the proposals that I don't see why I have to make further an explanation. The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson was absent from the case. Under the writings of Óli Björn, the son of Mccarthy, Braudur the Brynjar of Níelsson, the daughter of Bryndís, the daughter of Haraldsdóttir, the son of Einar Kárason, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, the Dögg of Gunnarsdóttir, and the Þorgrímur of Sigmundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u50	Mr. President. I would like to recommend the Committee on a bill to legalize the law on binding opinions of taxes, no. 91/1998, with subsequent changes, from a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee. The committee discussed the matter and was contacted by representatives from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs and from the Organization for Employment. News came from the Association of Professional Life and the Accounting Corporation KPMG. The bill suggests changing the law on binding opinions in terms of taxes, No. 91/1998, which aims specifically for a temporary return to five years and for a base tax that should be paid when a request for an opinion is submitted up by 75,000 dollars. 150,000. The Committee discussed the need for an increase in the budget recommended in Article 3. the bill, and sent a request to the governor for a memo that would discuss the cost of binding opinions. The official's answer included: .............................................................................................................................. Apparently, in the last ten years, their expenses would have increased, but the cost has remained as early as 2009. At that time, the office would have a significant indirect cost of the evaluation request, which would not be taken into account in time registration for them, including the costs of fictitaries' claims, but the binding opinion of the head of the state tax was largely charged with the Committee. Clearly, the value of the foundation would be least considered too high on the basis of work management, making the bill legal. Reminded the head of state tax in a paper with the bill that became a law on binding opinions in terms of tax matters, which said that the price was intended to cover the cost of the office by recognition as well as to contribute to the good preparation of opinions. A majority of the committee will consider the case of the head of state tax. Among the points discussed on the subject, there was the possibility of extending a length of values over five years to a certain set of conditions. The majority point out that the idea would have to be further developed before it is passed on to law. Sets a larger section to be checked at the Ministry whether and in what way it is wise to add legal requirements for extension of binding opinions. So the majority suggest that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Brynjar Níelsson's son, who was absent from the case, signed according to clearance at 3 mg. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. And under the writing of Óli the Björn of Kárason, the Þorsteinn Víglundsson Chilundite, Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Bruthi the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, Einar the Kárason of Meria, and Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, and Silja the Gunnarsdóttir of Döggi,
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u51	Mr. President. I recommend a board of committees with a bill-change proposal to legalize the law on the extra income of state funds, No. 88/1991, of Council Report 1411. The committee discussed the matter and was contacted by experts from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs and the Justice Department, visitors from the Organization of Professional Affairs and the Organization for Economic Affairs. The committee received reviews from the Iceland Business Council, as well as the above parties. April 1st. accepted law No. 151/2018, about the change in terms and other legislations that have the authority to declare rights by e-mailing. Along with the legal taking of the law, there was a regulations on e-mailing, no. 360/209, where their implementation is further described. In 1st. Section 8. Residents, No. 88/1991 is required to pay 2,500 dollars. The protocol for the declaration of documents. The bill on this subject suggests that the same fee should be paid for an e-mail. The Commission presented a view that the government's cost of action would be reduced as e-mails would be more common and payable on the basis of e-mails would be considered. In a paper with a bill that became the above law No. 151/2018 reports that analysis work in connection with the introduction of e-mails has shown that significant social benefits are derived from the uptake of e - mails, but it is difficult to reliably evaluate the level of efficiency. It should not be planned that all declarations will be electronic even now, and therefore it will ever have to evaluate the economy that will result in the change. The Commission feels that consumers and members of the Parliament receive the practicality of the recording of e - mails, suggesting that the price of an e-mail will be 40% lower than the price of a standard document. In addition, the Commission believes that with increasing incentive to use e - mail messages, they will contribute to a faster induction of the new system. Since there is no immediate economic effect on the economists, as well as the expected price for the state's labour programme for the current year, the Committee suggests that a fee for a European labour fee will be equally paid for the Senate declaration, i.e. 2,500 p.m., up to January 1, 2020. Clearly, the adjusted proposal described above has an impact on the government's revenues on the state's terms, but income of that population was 240 million. K. By 2018, an estimated 328 million. K. of budget for 2019 C.E. The share of the impairment depends on the percentage of terms being performed electronically, but against it, there is an advantage, as mentioned earlier. The centenarian's proposal to pay for an e-mail is not based on a precise assessment of the public's real cost of e - mails, as there is no evidence to it. The Commission suggests that when experience is implemented on e-mails, there is an assessment of the real cost behind them, with the prospect of paying for the actual cost. The Commission reiterates the position presented in the Committee's list of 4th cases during the current legislation board that it is necessary to apply the principle of government - service decisions that they reflect the cost of the institutions. It is a matter of justice that the public enjoys it directly when the expense of the institutions falls. with increased self-activities and electronic services. On the front, chief. President, the Committee proposes that the bill be approved by the change I've made here as a subject. Brynjar Níelsson's son, who was absent from the case, signed according to clearance at 3 mg. 18th par. Coral regulations of regular committees. A Smári Mccarthy will sign in advance that he intends to explain later. Under references to Óli Björn Kárason, Braunr Níelsson's Þorsteinn, Þórstein the Víglundsson of Wílund, Bryndís the daughter of Haraldsdóttir, Einar Kárason, Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Ginsótttir, and Smári Mccarthy, in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-03-99.u52	Mr. President. I recommend to the Committee of Economic and Business Committees... a change form of bill-to-procide... of a change in insurance law... and of insurance insurance policy laws, regulations and regulations. The nominee is held in Council Report 1298. The Commission has met with the financial and economic experts and the F.O.W.s. We've got a report from the SEC. The bill suggests changes to insurance laws, No. 100/2016, 1st suit and insurance policy law, No. 60/2017, however. Is about the changes including responds to comments from the EFTA monitoring agency on the implementation of EU construction centres published quarterly and on technical information for the calculation of insurance insurance debt due to the quarterly data separation. In his review to the Committee, the SEC suggested a change to Article 1. the bill on the Agency's authorization to set rules for risk-free growth process for appropriate currency to calculate the best insurance assessment due to a quarter of the data separated. It suggests that the Council of Economic Affairs is authorised to refer to the publication of the procedure that contains the information in the European Commission's Management Board in English. The Commission agrees with UNECE proposal and suggests an appropriate change in Article 1. The bill. The motion of the material is included in the opinion presented here. Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir was away at the hearing. Under the name of this committee, the publications of Óli Björn Kárason, the Þorsteinn Víglundsson Wílund, Brabbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Bryndís the daughter of Haraldsdóttir, Einar Kárason, Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson, and Smári Mccarthy.
