ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u1	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Sveinsson Sólnson for his speech. I have to admit that because I was busy elsewhere, I missed the schedule non-prepared inquiry earlier today. I kind of want to ask you what. A senator would see if I understood correctly that a prime minister earlier today was asked whether the contents of the fourth energy package were not a reason to examine the contents of the fourth energy package in relation to the induction of the third energy package, which she thought, if understood. A senator is right, not a special reason for that. Can the senator please confirm if I understand the facts? I will then go on the Internet after and watch this exchange if they are in this way, for it is, of course, completely uncool, so that it is said as it beats me. This fourth supply of energy has been available to governments since Wednesday, or maybe Thursday, in order to be fair, and then to any member of the government. Reports have been made about his introduction to stakeholders. All this shocks me so that the current source of this third energy package cannot contain any new data or become available. It is likely that they will rock the boat to find themselves in the position of the entry that the case would have to be delayed until autumn. How do you hit it? A senator? All of it?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u2	A respectable president. There's been some new evidence in this case. You might say -- and if it's the right number, I haven't checked that this particular thing, but somewhere it's said that the fourth energy package is about 1,000 pages, but it may well be smaller, it doesn't change everything - that any amount of material is revealed, which is new, and it's a good reason to look at. It's not often, I think it's safe to say what we have at the Council to be able to see into the future, to know what is coming for us, not just predict what will happen, but to see what will happen. That's what we can do now about this fourth energy package that's been taken care of and approved. This box is ready for us. But instead of waiting for 18, 24, 36 months to see what's going to happen, and you can say, "Hey, we're going to take a closer look at it, there's nothing we can do about it. And if you don't want to calm down, we'll have to bring this back to the joint EEA committee, but we have to be able to compare and see the overall effect. It's new and it's something I don't think responding is unnatural. It is not surprising to admit it, saying: "This is not what we knew when we agreed to bring this matter into the council. Now that we have a new situation, we must have the opportunity to examine it further. Regarding the first question about the word at the highest. Prime Minister today -- yes, it was a huge disappointment to hear a prime minister say, "Well, it's just gonna be the process, it's going to be in this filter, it's going to be all this conversation, and it's going to try to get a replacement, etc. But the message was: Even if it is open to us, it is not necessary to consider the future. What a disappointment this is because of the highest! The prime minister now has an opportunity to see what is in store for us, e.g. more markets for electricity.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u3	Mr. President. It would seem that if a publisher is not suitable for them on that day, he will not be interested. Although I'm here to arrange for a new assembly, I've watched about a few hours there before. I do not remember that such a similar package and a pack of four energy, taking into account a pack of three energy in this Europeanx all, that the next package has been fully developed and ready before the release of the last one. It may be that I don't know what to do, but I think I do. Is this not a unique opportunity to suspect the decision better, how the induction process is being carried out, and then likely a decision would be made to refer the case to the EEA joint committee? Is it not a unique opportunity that we are facing now, then on Wednesday last week, to examine the overall effect of these - that is, two thirds, if it is right to be five packages, though you have no assurance of it, but if this is five, then two thirds of the total amount, said two of the three packages already available. Isn't this really a mistake, clean, straight, moving on with the third energy package, without a look at the context of the fourth energy package? I'm sorry to understand how the good inputs in the energy package come to the conclusion that this is the course of wisdom.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u4	V.E.G. President. To me, this is quite serious. I think it's a serious matter not to be stopped, because we're not dealing with any small issues here. We're talking about a possible expeditation of power, whether it goes against the Constitution, we're talking about national commitments. We're ingesting the EU electronic policy. But now we can see the bigger picture. Aren't we going to take advantage of that? When I saw this last week and pointed out from a speech chair on Wednesday that it was finished, it was the first thing I thought, "Hey, that's really great. Now we can look at the bigger picture. Now we can see what we need to be careful about, and if there's anything in it that makes us need, not because some strange platoons are against a pack of three energy, but because it works out and pays for the nation, for our country, for the future, to pause and try to examine the overall picture. That's what this is about. So I wonder in my talk earlier and will continue to discuss it - and I want to pray to the highest. A president putting me back on the rosary with a talk: What are the changes? What will be the development of this energy package that now awaits us from those to whom we are here? It's really weird, at least. President, if the followers of this case don't want to know. If they say A, what is involved when they say B in this? What's the next step? It's very special that people don't want to know. That is why this is an opportunity for all thinking senators to say: We need to look into this new information.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u5	Mr. President. I spoke here in my talk earlier tonight about the constitution problem and was going to talk about it before I began a discussion about the legal warning. I was reviewing the opinion of Már Stefánsson and Professor Friurk Friðrik's Árni Hirst, who had been legal advisers of the government in this matter. I had started going over this and continued where I had been left off. My last speech was to postpone the commanding problem and whether it would be an option to overlook what they believe to be part of these rules, especially 8 pars. Regulation No. 713, it's most likely against a constitution and whether it would be possible to ignore the problem while these rules were not tested. As I put it, would it be possible to wait while there was no sea cable? The answer is found in their report. No, telling the scribes, it is inevitable to take sides with such concerns before the General approval of the third energy package. For more information, see page 5 of the book What Does the Bible Really Teach? 25. The scholars also set out regulations 8. articles that have been very much discussed include decisions that the ESA takes into consideration, in fact, the important individual interests and legislation, as well as the rich public interests associated with the electricity system and its use. For more information, see page 5 of the book What Does the Bible Really Teach? Thirty-five in the poll. They then point in this context also to the major impact that ACER has on ESA decision making and misapproaching the two support systems of the European Economic Area, which we have considered. Then they say at the bottom of the page. 35 that there is no such thing as cross-border electronics and, to add, Mr. President: i.e., it doesn't make any difference that the third energy package has to pass the constitution. Just over a head, although there's no cable. This brings them to possible consequences from the introduction to rules that may be contrary to the constitution and on page 5. 35: In this regard it has to be remembered that the legislation against the Constitution can have harmful consequences, and it does not in itself matter whether such consequences occur immediately at the accepted or at the later time. For example, a law that violates a constitution may bring benefits to individuals and lawyers because of the damage they suffer because of such legislation. Such improved individuals or legislators of the United States will be brought to justice when the damage is done, but this in itself can take place long after it is approved at the General Assembly. In any case, any potential improvement requirements of this nature have been in doubt about the control-employment value of the third energy package, resulting in an unfavourable corrective quality of knowledge. So many were words. How clearly can you speak? The opinion of Már Stefánsson and Friday of Friðrik Hirst's Friðsson makes it clear that they feel that there is considerable doubt as to whether there is a cause for decision to ESA, according to the noted 8 g. Containment within the Republic of Iceland, No. 33/144. Toward the end of their ratings on the last page, pp. 44, they point like in an escape on a possible solution, as they call it. That's the solution the government groups have decided to leave. I'm going to think about that solution in the next talk because I see that my time is over. This solution is a seven - and - a - half - line line at the end of the opinion of the group of 44 pages. It's on the last page, like a miss, at the bottom of their reputation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u6	Mr. President. That was quite clear and convincing. A senator, the quotations he was reading. You would think that they called for a response on the part of the government, which has not been the case with these factors. On the contrary, people seek to postpone the problem, to postpone their decision on whether it will pass a constitution and, in effect, pass on the proposed issues. However, there is something else I would be interested in asking. A senator, two things at once. A senator came in. On one hand, this combination of ACER and the Power Institute. It is now in place and on the program for the Council to be held at the highest station. Industrial Minister on changing the nature of the Power Institute. It has been introduced on the grounds that it is about increasing the independence of the Agency but is, in effect, going on to cut it from democratically elected representatives, members of the council and to make it appear to be a matter of increasing the independence of this institution. In today's fashion, institutions are to be independent of voters, the public. It's part of this system application. In fact, it is not public to make decisions about things but to make some experts. Is it not the problem that the purpose is not to make the Agency independent but to bring it under the ACER so that it can become a so-called national rule and be observed on behalf of ACER, Iceland? [[The president calls.]] I can't ask the second question. It'll have to wait till later.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u7	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir So did Davíð, Gunnlaugsson for the question. He asks about Power Institute and its interaction with the European Energy Agency. If you read the principle, the third energy package and the rule of operation around the European Union, it's clear where you're headed, the goal is not hidden. The aim is common market and to increase the share of renewable energy sources. This is done in various ways, including what I've been considering here in the chair, and I'm going to finish. I've just put it aside, as long as I'm referring to the initiative and trying to dive a little bit into it and will do it in the next speech as well. Then I'll take up my previous work and deal with the origin of electrical responsibility. It clearly shows what the future is. The share of renewable energy is to be increased by creating prices for them. This will increase the cost of the energy that results in producing more production of such energy, resulting in a reduction in the demand for unclean energy. So the future is somewhat predictable. This is to become one area where energy can be given wherever it is needed. Of course, because some European countries already have very high levels of growth. Energy will be given from less-inexpensive areas resulting in this - and this is under the European Union's competitive rules, not necessarily the energy directive, but the competitive principle. A competition like an area where the government is largely no longer allowed for the energy industry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u8	Mr. President. I'm not saying what. A senator has made me a trick at the end, but he brought a very interesting point that needs to be discussed further but I cannot go over to that short answer. It's how the energy package and its induction play together with the competitive rules, promoting the use of them in the interests of energy policy. Another story is the subject of a talk. What I was going to ask you. A senator's discussion was on the risk of damages due to the incorrect induction of the third energy package or a damage request on the grounds that the government was not enforcing the energy package in accordance with the proposed data. This concern was completely new, as it were, and more weighted yesterday when the British Sunday Times published a report on the plans for sea cables between Iceland and Northern England. We had been told that treaties and possible damages were no cause of concern because there would be a long way to fix a cable if it ever came. Then the General would discuss the matter. All of us are familiar with this discussion. However, there was a news story in a British large newspaper in which the case is presented in a way that is actually just waiting for a stamp or a definition from the British secretary of business, and it is all ready to start the production of sea cables and links between countries. Is this not an obvious example of someone who might test this law?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u9	Mr. President. I appreciate that question. You're absolutely right. Senator. As I came to my talk, legal counselors of the government deal with the very obligation of improving matters, on page 24. In the opinion of 35, and in short the conclusion that the legislation against a constitution and induction that violates the European Union's regulations can bring benefits to the State. It's actually a two-way obligation, i.e. to authorities whose rights are based on the European principle we've introduced but then we don't act as it seems to be a government policy, and then laws that violate Iceland's constitution, such as those we've come to, can also provide benefits on another basis. I spoke of the European Union's competitive policy. There are many other rules in the European Union, other regulations, and they need to be considered in context. Some small targets and guidelines that may apply in small areas and small areas, as well as in all areas, and beyond, will be clearly defined if they are in conflict with the main objectives of the European Union, such as. The rules of competition, that competition should not be interrupted and that it should be distributed ownership, must not be one party to the market, etc. If something offends, the main objectives will be clear. Thus one principle can really affect another.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u10	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. These are major questions that the senator raised in his case. I'd like to ask him, and maybe it's a big question: How is it best to resolve this doubt, this administrative doubt over which the senator crossed? What are some of the ways in which we can do this? It's a little special to say that we really want to speed it up, we're gonna postpone the problem, we're gonna postpone solving what really matters, push it ahead for as long as we can. What is the best way to resolve this government? Second, we saw news today that there are British people who are preparing for sea cables. Suppose they manage to build a string and want to lay it down, they build a power plant, e.g. wind plant, Iceland and just want to export its energy to Britain and possibly from there to Europe. Now we don't know how the energy situation will be done in Britain exactly after their exit, but we'll say it's all gonna be one system. If so, the United States will not be able to prevent this cord from being laid unless it makes for some kind of improvement. Don't understand the caution, that's what I'm trying to get out of my system, that one example of such reform may be that a private partner gets a line or wants to do it, the Icelandic state tries to prevent it, thus creating some kind of commitment. That's what I was trying to get out of me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u11	Madam President. Yes, it may take more time to explain such elaborate questions. According to their opinion, the induction of the third energy package leads to a legal assurance in a land that cannot be enjoyed, as they themselves say. Then they discuss the possible benefits because there is a high probability that a part of this rule, par. especially, go contrary to the constitution. It can produce benefits to the United States. These cases may not be easy to mention, but they can be all kinds of people. They point to a possible solution, that this is introduced legally, the regularity actually does not apply, yet it is accepted. It is fundamental, Madam President, that the legal defense there is called by the legal advisers of the government is not defined at all, he is not implemented. And what does the government do? It goes up to Shadowtown, in accordance with law. What guidance? Is that guidance in your opinion? I haven't seen it. I'd appreciate it if someone could point it out. Is there guidance in the opinion of how to do this? No, not that I know of. What does the government do? She'll do this, if I get it right, with a Regulation written up in Shadowtown at one Ministry walk and waiting for the signature. Like it's breaking the European Union's rule? That's ridiculous.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u12	President. It'd be interesting to hear what you're talking about. A senator, whether in opposition or in speech later, only describes the differences between the Icelandic Regulation set to the European Union's home bridge and law when we may have reached the EFTA Court. Which has greater value? I'd also like to ask the senator about something else. Now we're dealing with this big deal, a pack of three energy. There is a measure of control. Hv. A senator did well. I know why. So that such doubts may exist also in a pack of four energy that is now exposed to light? If not, whether it might be clever for the followers of this matter, especially for the two Ministers, to have a serious look at and not be doing anything with the common influence of a pack of three and four, may already be at the Constitution, advising power and a decision whether or not we are breaking the constitution in any way. Only if it is simply to postpone the ◯ problem for all eternity, hoping that it will not be necessary to deal with what today's news is less likely. This situation is likely to need to be handled sooner than later. Thus, the main question is, Is there no reason to try to examine these administrative factors in a single body when we know that there is more to enter our table?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u13	Madam President. In such a short answer, you can't get a lot out of it. Hv. A senator asked about regulations. There's a big difference between regulations in Iceland and the European Union. The rules in Iceland are written only in one department, traveling between the marches and the end of the board minister, and he signs them. There may be regulations about anything, dog maintenance or various items that are more detailed in implementation of the law. I'm not saying it's trivial, but it's such a minor application. Laws are much higher than regulations in Iceland, but this is different in Europe; regulations are similar to laws here, and apply in the whole area to 400 million people. That's why you might have expected something more, Madam President. You expected this legal company to be something more than the Council's Regulation. Perhaps we will hear more of the legal guardianship. I ask most of all, Madam President: After what formula was this legal formula prepared as he is prepared? Where's that formula? It's not to be found in the opinion of Stefán Már and Friðrik of the Árni, not so I've seen. Is the script somewhere else? Or was it just built on the government board? They say it should be done on a legal basis, and there is no closer definition. Then, on May 15, where is the legal guardian? There will be panic in the board of directors. They're pointing in every direction. They cannot explain to the nation what this legal arrangement is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u14	Madam President. I would like to arrive in this speech briefly into the assembly's entrance to the sea cables, drawing a little closer from the point of view to panic. It is only a ten - year example that we have a complete reversal of the views of those who fought an election campaign in the spring of 2009. Now I'm referring to the left greens, which then claimed that it would not be an option to apply for involvement in the European Union and that they would not participate in the government after the election had been completed which would have been planned. If I recall correctly, it was three weeks from the time the government was formed and until Össur Skarphéðinsson, then foreign minister, had sent a letter to Brussels, where it was requested to adapt Iceland's talks with the European Union. Three weeks. In terms like this, it seems that all the government groups have taken a U-turn from the fall of 2017 to now 2019. It does not add to your confidence that if the defence is formed at some point in the government of those categories that remain on this point, those who are sometimes called the opposing parties, the Conspiracy, the Reconversion, and the Pirantars together. - Still, it should be handled on Porta's case at the moment. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson expressed great doubts about the journey I think it is safe to say that the least of the Conspiracy and its restoration are interested in laying, the transpiration of sea cables and the sooner. And as for the governments now in power, they were not so much discussed with them on these matters, but it was known from within their council that there was very limited support, at best, at best, at the induction of the third energy package. When you look at all of this in relation to the pressures that the European Union can put on, it will see, and that in this council, members of the Parliament are very much more than the word, and, of course, also interested in the linking of the country with a sea cable, there is little peace in using them as logical support for allowing all of this to be resolved in this way. Now, we're giving ourselves some reason for holding these alleged warnings, but there's still one stunt that's about to become a temporary government that's going to continue to run the case, a failure of the matter to the induction process. There is no reason to underestimate that risk, and there I am taking this 10-year-old example of turning left green to the EU's Member States. Although they always followed specific explanations, that does not change the fact that the left ones supported that adaptation and that they would never have gone forward without their support. I reiterate the fear of these chemicals. Even if the watchmen believe, which you believe to be very distant, there is still this risk that will prove to be one day a temporary government that has a completely different opinion than this meant foreordained. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u15	President. These are speculations worth wondering what would happen if a government would come back here that wanted to be joined in the European Union. You also wonder if it is such that existing government groups are not aware of the steps they might be taking with this running on the third energy package. Is it possible that the willingness to look at the whole thing is small because you realize that if you see the picture, they have to make it up to them and have to talk about the possibility that when, hopefully, some kind of interview with the European Union has just adopted the European Union's energy policy in Icelandic law, you've just adopted the European Union's energy policy? We'll have to work for her, become members of this relationship and establish all, directly or indirectly. As a result, it would pass through. I wouldn't be surprised if some people thought that way, but it's a risk that humans are clearly taking. I don't talk about if men don't try to figure out what the big picture might be after a few years when it's available. When it comes to the European Union and their expectations or people in their midst apply for entry, you wonder again whether the left green games are still two.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u16	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for the counter-sponsored. Of course, when the natural negotiations that some called the European Union were instituted, there was nothing more to be done than adaptable negotiations, how Iceland adapted to the European Union's regular work, and did so within the most crucial period of time. The energy package as it is available is just one box that has been ticked in addition to those that are supplied and finished. I think it's the injury of the members to continue in all of the production projects that run our fun. I think it's such a big deal in the context of parts for the future that it must be to those who are dreaming of these things, i.e. access into the European Union, a great relief that this issue will be resolved. When the next ring, whenever it is, hopefully never, will be taken over adaptation talks that the European Union does not have to worry about its energy and thus one of the less things to think about. I think there's a lot to suggest that if you wonder what this is all about, i.e. Support the induction. If we look at it, we'll see it. I don't think any comments from any of their members, except that they didn't get a vote on the matter yet to come to accept it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u17	Mr. President. Yes, it is normal for groups of members to feel that they should speed it all up. At the same time, it is of great interest that two former senators and French ministers of the Black Party have been very clear in their position when it comes to the energy package, Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson and Sighvatur Björgvinsson, who have been considering this. Both have specifically warned that energy is involved. I imagine it should--I don't intend to turn men into some opinions--but you should think that at least similar ideas were about other resources, that this was about the resources. But we're gonna stay on the energy. They warn exactly that there is really no need to go that way, to walk this way with the energy, energy, into the European Union's energy market. Both have presented an excellent argument, and the godfather of the EEA Convention has personally submitted opinions on this matter, and there is a fine review of both history and its goals and that energy was never part or was not originally part of the EEA Convention. Therefore, we must wonder if this is some kind of competition between all of these parties. Who is the first to exist or who can be greater in the European Union and must not interfere with that competition? In fact, it is sometimes difficult to tell between them, which one is what. There they may be just competing for attention.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u18	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. It would be not for the first time that groups of this part of the political spectrum would push one another into a competition with who can be the best. I think their common goals, i.e. to encourage Iceland to end as a member of the European Union - you would think that these groups would have sufficient rhythms to match their strings in these areas, in what way the third energy package will be best used to further the common cause. Of course, that is not excluded, such as why. A senator, saying, is that the race is too rational - these are the two classes, especially - they go out of their way many times in convincing and supporting the implementation of government expeditions. Everyone knows, I'll let me say, that very few, if any of the three federal members are comfortable with it as it has grown. On the other hand, they have these two groups cheerleading, rejuvening on the one hand, and the United States, who cannot wait for the matter to end. There would have been ever a disturbance, to form a party of Independence Party, when the strongest support for the introduction of a case came from the Conspiracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u19	Madam President. Hv. A senator came into contact with Iceland and the European Union, which happens to be the main theme of my next talk. I'm gonna wait until I get to the top of it. Of course, it puts things in perspective when there's trouble. A senator reviews the big campaign fraud of the Left move ▪ Green election after election 2009, which took on some funny images, including as famous, the speech of the present poll. A health minister who gave a big talk about how much she was opposed to the European Union, and that is why she wanted to apply for it. No one could understand anything. It's a little the same with the current government with this case on the third energy package. What I wanted in there. The senator's words or concerns were that this might take over a government for an extended or shorter period that would allow the case to pass through, the most complete third energy package, so to speak, by allowing a sea cable. Then I'll ask why. A senator: What about this government? If we had this government under the circumstances of breaking contracts, even the Icelandic government has been deemed to pay damages for preventing linking? What would this government do, a government that doesn't even trust in a discussion about the third energy package? Would not the Ministers merely herd the team together at a conference in the Ministry and explain that, unfortunately, we would have to accept this cable, since we had been judged to do so and fully finished? Does it take anything else and a different government to accomplish all the effects of the third energy package?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u20	Madam President. I must admit that I hadn't thought of it this way, but with experience, the penalty rod from Brussels, or from all of it, seems to be shaking up quite quickly in the present government groups. It would never be, however, that it would be a government, in any way composed in the present way, or just as, and then I mean the present government, who would actually be the most complete case in spite of the aesthetic of another. We can only see from the problem of unhesitated meat that seems, in fact, to be prepared to yield a pretty great deal of interest to avoid further blows from outside. There is no evidence in the format of this case to suggest that the terms of dealing with treaties or any such as these would be resolved in a manner other than, e.g. In the frozen meat.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u21	Madam President. I would like to make a comment about the fact that the president is beginning to practice putting the clock on before the speech starts. Anyway. I think, Madam President, that we simply need to accept that considering our attitude and the ideas of the government groups, people need to stop living in the past because it's only proved that it's more and less organized. There is no evidence to at least, that they will react differently at the following stage than they do on a third energy pack with respect to the fourth energy package or changes already being made in the European Union on the third energy package or part like sea cable fixes. I'm not talking about if, as discussed in the Sunday Times last night, the government's case was in question and the government was faced with the need to deal with it on their own terms. How, then, would she react? We have the precedent. Hv. A senator mentioned it in his opponent. We have an example, and it's going to happen at this council and we're waiting for a release. It is the nation's health and interests, food production, with regard to the basic research of the people of the land. That is where the government presents itself and says: I'm sorry. We were just about to have an exception, but the European Union says we don't have one. Therefore, you members of Parliament must vote by interpretation of the European Union. We can only imagine whether the same thing would happen to that government. I'm not talking about a government where one or both parties were already involved in the full demand to put a cable and thus work toward the goal of the third energy package on the integration of the European electricity system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u22	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. As I said at the beginning of my speech, the steps are troubled, and the steps are gone. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, was able to come to my mind even more worried than I had before. It's this case, some call it raw meat, which turns to the import of unheated meat, unbridled cheese, and eggs. In some way, it is hardheaded by governments that there is no evidence that a person is going to dress in such a business. We're looking ahead, e.g. In this matter, that the solutions offered are the present bill. At the same time that humans would like to make the entry relatively quickly in time, each of the 12 or 15 things intended to take place are not far from reaching out. It seems somehow that some within the government feel better floating, in the most calm, asleep to fragility. The emphasis on having a vision of things and taking action and taking action before problems become real to me seems to me that when you go to the emergency fund to take on the road that all Icelanders do, except for possible transport ministers, you know the need to do and so much more. I'm afraid it will look in a similar way to some extent, on the other hand, and then how the energy package would respond.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u23	Madam President. I'm going to discuss only the relationships between Iceland and the European Union, and actually Britain and the European Union, because, in my opinion, both have a great deal of explanation for the issues we are dealing with right now, the third energy package. Let's start with Britain. It has not been overlooked that the British for three years have been trying to get out of the European Union after the British public's greatest mass payment in this country agreed to an outing. A long, complex process was received that cannot yet provide for the end. The most important part of this process is the fact that everything has been done on the basis of the European Union, which has actually played with Britain, and that the situation for that country, at any stage. Britain is no small nation, one of the largest countries in the Union, one of the strongest economic powers and the longest military power in the Union. However, there is something that officials in Brussels have not been concerned about, and unfortunately they have benefited from the help of local citizens in Britain who have decided to destroy the standing of their own country. It's been kind of sad to keep track of it because things like this remind you of things we've been going through in Iceland. As a result, this process is not yet ended, three years later. At no rate has Britain's prime minister trusted to make the European Union simply stand before Britain's having a unique contract, a contract on the grounds of the European Union, which, of course, puts this state into a hopeless position. All of this is a result of Britain's becoming involved in the European Union, a network that is largely made up of regulations. They'll think about the case we're dealing with here. The European Union's attitude to entangle whole countries is something that we may need to discuss in Iceland too, because there is no other way to hear at the highest level. Secretary of State, but that he is not absolutely sure if Iceland is still that candidate state of involvement in the European Union. It is quite clear that Iceland broke up the European Union's activities. That is already the case, and it was a long time ago. True, it took a long time to get the European Union to take Iceland off a list of candidate countries, but it went through. If the highest. Secretary of State has doubts that the relationship has been let go of us as an applicant, first of all, one must ask: Why hasn't the Minister decided that we're no longer an application state? Is he afraid of that? I don't know. If the Minister believes that there may be a risk that Iceland is still an applicant country on involvement in the European Union, it is his job to correct it. But just the fact that this discussion is going to come up and be the highest. Secretary of State talks in a way that he does in the face of Iceland many years ago, since the end of member talks, shows how dangerous it is to reach the European Union. It involves not just a little finger, but all the hands taken and tried to chain her to the bonds of Brussels. These two stories, on the one hand of communication between Iceland and the European Union and Britain and the European Union, should serve as a reminder of the importance of not harming oneself with the induction of the third energy package, since the examples prove that all of this is used to control countries and it may be difficult to escape once the European Union has reached.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u24	A respectable president. That's a good review for what's happened. A member of the European Union member of the Controversy and all. It's nice to add, too, and why. A senator may be able to confirm if time is working, that it was remarkable to see that the independent party at the time did not trust to settle the matter at the council. While the other member was willing to do so, independence would not be able to get along or rely on him to finish the matter in his own study. As a result, several, three to four old journalists and independents are rather pissed off, trying to make everything else suspicious. That, in itself, is secondary. On the other hand, I have to say one thing. Two words were made in the report of the Secretary of State on the EEA Convention, I think that was last year, in which he described in terms of the negotiations that there had been a complete recession. I made comments to those words, and the minister was rather embarrassed and tried to pin it to his predecessor, who is not right. However, I know that this was one of the proposed actions of the European Union, that men would make a so - called complete recession, but of course it wasn't brought up, so the Minister has recently just entered the spade, as one would like to say in the foreign service, i.e. I'm running a little bit and I'm making a mistake. But this is how the European Union is, boy. A senator, and we've seen on the British front row that once men are in there, they don't go out again, they're just on the track, they're in and obey the officials, or they can get worse.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u25	Madam President. It is hoped that humans can learn from the experience in this regard. You're absolutely right. A senator says, of course, that we and others would have liked to handle this matter in a most decisive way during the council, but there was someone shy about it in the Independence Party. It can also be said that the polite wording used to announce the European Union's termination of the application was a result of the concern of members of the Independence Party at the time who became known as a revered class. They were trying to cope with anxiety. Councilmen of that time. Anyway, we're cut out, but it's just like that. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson points out a doll with disturbing clues, such as a comment in the highest report. Secretary of state for complete recess. What does this mean, Madam President, complete recess? Is it to stress that this is just a pause, a complete recess, or is it to emphasize that there is no particular contact for a certain period of time? It's not good to say. We haven't had any answers to this from the highest level. Secretary of State, however, is a reminder that in dealing with the European Union it is necessary for humans to be cautious and not to accept or implement regulations that they do not foresee the effects.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u26	President. Thanks for the answer. The European Union has given high priority on energy issues recently, and it may be said that at one point, people have been raised to the level of energy import, both from Russia and from ships, gas and the like from the Arab countries, etc. They felt that it would be necessary to take other routes and to buy large amounts of energy, including some of them. From Norway, and put a lot of money in windmills and more. Hv. At least the theme was the question asked by a senator in unsubstantiated inquiry earlier today about a pack of four energy, if I recall correctly. Prime Minister answered, and in fact, he just described the process that EEA types will go through when they come into existence and did it just fine. But in view of EU targets, and in view of the fact that energy demand is least reduced in the European Union, is it not a reason to worry that when it comes to taking the possibility that three sources of energy will not be returned by further induction? We've gone a long way to adopt the European Union energy policy that the European Union, Norway, Liechtenstein and a great number of politicians in Iceland, possibly those who stepped on their knees in 2015, think they're not going to go back, they're just going to have to do this, they're just gonna have to finish this, they're gonna have to take a pack of four, five, and so on.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u27	Madam President. The highest answer. I was worried about the prime minister. Even though it's the highest. A minister didn't put it that way, she said something about a thousand regulations on the assembly and we just need to do it the way it normally is at the line. However, in view of the nature of the government's support of the induction process, there is a very special concern regarding the third energy package. One thing is to refer generally to how this works with European rules, but it is another to set the example specifically in energy matters that because of the induction of the first and second energy directive, we must implement the third energy package and that we must implement the third energy package because this is a big issue in the mind that it may upset the EEA if we simply ask for a review of the situation in the joint EEA committee. So there is a very dangerous example, which will definitely be used in the Icelandic government when the fourth energy package arrives on the assembly. It'll be very difficult, at least For this government, to say that the same doesn't mean them, such as the third energy package, because all political logic will be reversed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u28	Madam President. That was quite interesting. paritaprevir Davíð Gunnlaugsson's victory came upon him when he spoke of the difficulty in escaping, that the network of EU regulations might be stuck. We are in the European Economic Area, so we may be slightly different. We are the exception of certain aspects of the European Union's legal environment, as we know, e.g. ... fishing. This is a new field, the electric sector, which we decided to bring in Iceland and then pretend to have some legal notice. But, hey. A senator has also discussed the fact that there is much to be said about this matter. I just agree with what. A senator, there's a lot to discuss, and I'm going to mention a few things, just to slide over them. I don't expect him to answer them directly. More discussions need to be made about our legal warnings, how they are and where they are kept. We need to talk more. The European Union's fourth energy directive has to be discussed, which is prepared to agree to the Council of Ministers of the European Union. That was done last week. Of course, it needs to be discussed in the context of this matter here. We're implementing a third order, and the fourth is already in Europe. Why is it not discussed, why is it not revealed, and when discussing the third energy directive, open talk? Another thing I'm going to talk about is the overall effect. The overall impact is not discussed. What would be the overall effect of the package if a cable were to arrive shortly in the environment that would occur when the cable had arrived? There's so much that's going to be discussed completely. What is the impact of the European Union's main targets on this energy directive?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u29	Madam President. These are all factors that should, of course, be discussed in the context of the third energy package, but in particular with regard to what the European Union is applying for the weather or applying for increased media control. To emphasize the time to be concerned about this, I will allow myself to give a very good interview at the highest level. Secretary of finance from last year's review of the Business Journal. This is an interview conducted in the Daily Telegraph, which in effect answers this comment. Senator. It even says, by permission of the president: The European Union's growing pressure on more and more is being adopted by the European Union, now the last of which is energy and food management. He said to the European government that the independence of the country is becoming more and more difficult, but he says during the interview that the deeper integration of all parts of the Union is making it difficult for Iceland to take care of its national interests. This is what's happening. We need to look at all the factors. A senator mentioned, and we should, of course, be considering the context of the discussion of the third energy package on the basis of this trend. So I'll just mention one of the exhilarating examples. A senator mentioned, i.e. The fourth energy package, it cannot be terminated from its context with the third in view of the precise contribution to the highest. The secretary of finance points out during the interview. It's all part of walking in order and actually going over the state of the state under which the relationship is connected, or even on the EEA Treaty.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u30	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'm gonna come in first. We agree that we need to discuss our legal warnings better, whoever it may be. They need to be informed about him and identify him, and they need to work on legal matters regarding the alleged legal advance we are about to make. What's his hold? Has he been investigated? What will his effects be in the future? It must be discussed in context, as well as in the warnings of the Norwegians, which number eight. It should be discussed in the context of whether there is any action on that issue. Has the European Union shown any response to such warnings or held them at hand? Now there is a case for the Court of Justice in Norway that will be taken care of in the fall. Is it not wise to wait for his conclusion? What do you think? A senator about that? There are so many things that need to be discussed much better. Besides, I'm going to come into the main goals. The European Union's laws and regulations provide a wide range of regulations that address all kinds of factors such as competition, consumer protection and environment, and provide some of the main objectives of EU policy as a whole. Then, in other areas, rules and more detailed rules and rules are set aside if they are thought to violate the main objectives, as we have seen. Norway has had just a lawsuit and has lost them because they are simply turned aside.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u31	Madam President. Whatever it is. A senator last came in is an amazing subject of interest that I have planned to try to discuss later in this discussion but would love to listen to it. In the meantime, a senator will ponder over the matter, i.e. A relationship between different regulations in different areas and the interaction of these different regulations with the main objectives. In Europe's rights, the importance of interpreting from goals is very high, but more time must wait for you to talk about it. I'm going to answer a question. A senator for comparing the Icelandic warning if he is over his heads, with the Norwegian warnings. Thank you. A senator for that question, for I've been thinking about these Norwegian warnings and looking at them while they're at it. A senator has led his research, the search for the Icelandic warning. These Norwegian examples tell us a lot about the matter and what may be expected of the European Union's response to the Icelandic warning - feel it. They also tell us a lot about how the Icelandic government has handled this matter. I've heard from the highest. counselors I've asked about these Norwegian premonitions that they hardly knew of their existence, at least not known contents. Of course, it is surprising, especially that the government does not consider the Norwegian precedent, whether it could benefit us or if it had shown that one - sided warnings would not be necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u32	President. I mentioned in my last speech that I have a few questions that I believe would be necessary to answer before being further developed into the European Union energy policy. I concluded by asking, "What turns into a pack of four energy from three? " What's the trend between? What will be the overall picture when the 4th is over? What challenges are there? Now, I'm going to add a question that is whether or not the ACER Institute is getting more power in any way. Is this how after the four energy package has been introduced into the whole area, this institution has a new and bigger role? Are they potentially hiding together this change in partners or partners that have the power of ACER and ESAs in Iceland, Power Institute? Does it also change in some way? And what are these increasing powers? In fact, I came into it earlier today, I think I was, in a text that followed the announcement of the fourth energy package from last Wednesday at last week's notice that the nature of this institution, ACER, is being changed, which is a good fit for the warning or worry that the Society of industry has in its account. In fact, they do not make a special amount of energy out of a pack of three, but they are much more concerned about a pack of energy. So I think it's important for everyone to consider this in context. If the result is that ACER is gaining greater power, what are they? What is this increased or altered role of the Agency? And what if she gets a new and more role, what will it mean for us? Does that mean that the ones she had previously disappeared or added? Will the nature of the Agency change as soon as you know how? I think, President, that these are all questions that are important to answer that when people take the step as we did with a pack of two or another energy directive and if they continue to introduce the third one in this round without considering the whole case, we are taking a chance or unnecessary risk that we can still take care of if we take care of this case today. That's what I can't understand, Mr. President. How is it that followers of this matter, I'm going to allow myself to tell in particular other classes, or members of the council, but all of the members, won't sit down and figure out this big movie? That's amazing to me. You wonder what's behind it. Is there anything in there that we don't know that will come out later? You have no idea. These questions about the increased power of the ACER Institute must, of course, be taken into account that, although only indirectly, this would affect Iceland. If the role of the Agency or its partners in Iceland also changes, we need to see it, it may also have a significant impact. Does this mean that there is an increase in cost? Is this going to make any new options for you? Is there a new system that we're not part of or that doesn't want to be part of? All of this hangs on what changes will be made to this institution. I have to say this as I further examine the U.S. Department's answer to my questions, I'm more disappointed in the way they are handled. Of course, it is the minister who is responsible for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u33	Madam President. This is really an interesting subject, i.e. and the impact of the Agency on the decision-making of the European Environment Agency. The European Economic Area is thinking that there should be a special agency, ESA, which makes decisions on the implementation rules for the EFTA countries, where it will take its decision and decision to break contracts and other issues about Norway, Liechtenstein and Iceland. But in the legal context of the government's adviser, it is very clear and clearly stated on page 34, in which they point to the high impact that ACER has on ESA decision [...] such an arrangement also falls ill at the two supporting systems of the EEA Treaty, in the opinion they say. What do you think? A senator about this? That it is the European Union's establishment, I think in Slovenia, if I recall correctly, and is integrating the European energy market, and then there's some institution we trust in and is our agency, ESA, and if there's any case, it's ACER who actually writes the results for ESA in some cases, which makes frequent conclusions. How does this harmonize with our being participants in the European Economic Area with a system called the Two Controversy System, but then we have to live with the fact that some European institution in which we have no influence and no access to it makes the next decisions? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u34	A respectable president. I thank a senator for the question. This is the key question: How is it that people are willing to go so far as to say that this ARR facility is more and less able to see ESAs for guidance or how to react? If that's how I have to admit that you have to remember a little bit, that the pattern is the same as in the introduction to the financial situation together, I think we've made a mistake there. I think there's a way of saying it's a system. It is unacceptable that my knowledge of how ACER's power is written into the process that ESA must pass on to its decision making. I think it's in section five. ..... the agreed process to follow, discussed it, as I understand it. Now I have to admit that the legal case is not my first, but it says that there is a common conclusion, ▪mutatis mutandis, I think it is called, that it is written in that man should reach a common conclusion. If they don't make a decision, it's the EFTA Court that counts. Given how things are going to work out, I think it's gonna be hard for us to attend our rights. But it's absolutely impossible for mine to know so big a matter as with the resources of the country, that it's not quite ready and to sign who has the ultimatum there, and it's not acceptable that ESAs have it. I think we have to take a serious conversation about whether a man has made a mistake about going this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u35	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Sveinsson Svensson for the answer to ACER and the interaction between which we are going. We are entering into the prevalence of being subject to the influence of the Agency, which we have no impact on and no access, that is put into place for the European Union that we are not in. We are indirect members through the European Economic Area, where another system is created, another system to serve us, i.e. ESA. Where Are We Going? The management team puts the financier to this induction and is peering through the doors of energy through our major resources, our energy resources, and the use of the water that has taken us decades, up to 100 years, to activate and make good for us and our descendants. And cheap electricity for all the people of the country, which are now just over 300,000 in this rural country. But we're taking a chance. We're taking the risk of walking in there with that big resource. I think we should lie down on one thing and try to cut down the sludged cliff that the management team's been putting on this case and going on a contract. It's not what. A senator agrees with me in that, dealing with the case that's taking this back to the joint EEA committee and getting the parole that we deserve and that she admits we should get?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u36	President. The way you are going here and the way in which the administrative sector and some of its accessories are about to introduce the EU energy policy. It is to be introduced into small pieces and that is exactly what is happening. To ensure it is introduced correctly, it is written how these blessed EEA countries, Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein should resolve their cases with ESAs and how ACER will affect the solutions that ESAs if matters of opinion need to be resolved. At the same time as the idea is that the European Union's energy policy does not have energy policy. This points to the Eyjólfur of Ármannsson as a lawyer in his opinion, one of his opinion, and to the fact that it is a mistake to continue on this course without a country's own policy has been established. This is of utmost importance to me - and I have been harping on it right now - especially in view of the fact that we can see now or at least see, every energy policy in the European Union is leading us and will guide us with a pack of four energy. We'll see what the next steps will be. We should be reasonably able to evaluate the effects. We should be able to get the most qualified specialists to examine matters for us and answer such questions as the following: the questions I raised about the development of the power and influence of this institution, ACER, and whether it affects Iceland's institutions, for example.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u37	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. I want to make a subject of the very things he especially discussed here. It has been shown in several legal views that by this introduction, as it is thought, we are giving up more authority than by any other type of person before. That is exactly what the Eyjólfur's Ármannsson Eyolphon of the Yearman on page 10 says. 2, with President's permission: EU Regulation (EEC) No 37/2010: 713/2009 in Icelandic ensuing Regulation is expected by the sentence of Regulation, for in the workup of the Parliament's led-in directive of the European Parliament and of the Council 2009/72/EC (the common rules on the internal market for electricity) it requires changes in electrical law, No. 65/2003, and Power Institute law, No. 87/2003, with respect to the independence of the electrical monitoring of the Power Institute, What are we doing there? Yes, we're part transfuse of the Power Institute under national authority. The question is, Have people thought about it, " What power are we moving away from there? ' I can now think of the guilt that people have talked about here. We're selling it to an institution directly under the European Union to fine our electric companies if they do not act in accordance with what the EU wants. We're talking about large amounts, so large that all government fines like, for example. The competitive authorities have so far used here in Iceland are small money in connection with this. [[The president calls.]] What does the senator want us to know about this point?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u38	President. I'm going to ask these questions about the ACER Institute, these two questions I mentioned earlier, because I think it's necessary for a person to be aware of the impact and development that will occur. It is very important to me that the overall picture is clear about the point. The data on the European Union website, where all of this was published, the fourth energy package, and I went over a little earlier, comes in. until, by permission of the President: ◯ACER will oversee the future of regional units and thereby prevent potential problems that could arise if each state was running their affairs that could have negative consequences on energy markets and energy users. This will also adjust future rules in which ACER will now be able to agree directly rather than that each state is specifically agreeing. Obviously, there's been an increase in power. If we had time and could get through all these pages of the fourth energy package, I think we generals would be able to figure out for ourselves that there is a certain trend. It is likely more important that the legal interpretation is correct, i.e. What does it mean when this institution is restored to power? What does it mean for the Power Institute that may be given a different source? What does that mean for e.g. a power company in Iceland, a distribution company, or even a customer? All of this is important to consider overall before humans continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u39	Madam President. This may be the list in type No. 72/2009, which informs us about six or eight or nine aspects of ACER's reign. It contains things that I'm not sure were properly understood before they agreed to play this game. It is also, as we have, in the past, that the fact that a large number of members of the council were very French to record this energy package. It is as if they were affected or deceived, or seduced, to follow through on this package by being warned, which has actually been identified as at least one. ulceration, i.e. Any who have been found. So you wonder, " When a lot of people point out that they're going the wrong path and they don't say, as I think the more part is doing right now, you can't excuse it anymore because they didn't know better. ' When people continue to warn them repeatedly, and they know better, we are talking about resolve, aren't we? There seems to be a lot of intent at the General Assembly to run this package through, no matter what. No matter what comments are made, what warning, this is to be run through. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u40	President. It's really a hell of a thing if you're right next to it. Senator, this is done, no matter what. It is, in fact, very specific, in order to be taken up in a mild way, especially since, by permission of the President, the electrodynamic targetet desegrin, or the design of the energy market, of the Commission's provision of the fourth energy package, is presented. The European Union has updated Regulation 72/2009 and Regulation 714/2009. We're dealing with that type and regulations now, and we're going to start bringing them in, but they've been changed according to this, they've been updated. Mrs. President, why on earth is that not taken into consideration? What is this update for 72/2009 and 714/2009? What's the change? Is it not wise to examine it rather than to introduce something that has become old and then change after a few months? Why not find out what these developments are like? This section shows that it is being updated to 72/2009 and to Regulation 714/2009. It also states that there should be a new risk management principle. Plus, it's an extra part of the ACER. This exists, perhaps not in print, but is available on the web and can be seen there. the changes the fourth energy package will bring.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u41	Madam President. In my speech, I shall proceed with the basic findings of the legal advisers of the government, Professor Stefánsson's Árni Stephen and the Friðrik of Friðriksson, Hirst's son. I was in my last talk on possible reform requirements and said, with the permission of a president: ▪ Whatever the potential improvement requirements of this nature, the administrative value of the third energy package has been transfused by a non-funding rationalisation. Thus they said that this would result in a measure of justice that would not be enjoyed. Their peers'opinion is so clear that they feel that there is considerable doubt as to whether a decision - making authority to ESAs, according to Article 8. Regulation No. 713, are included in the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland. For more information, see page 5 of the book What Does the Bible Really Teach? 36. But at the end of the report on the last page, on page 24. 43, they point out, as if right to mention, that there was a possible solution in the case as they put it - a possible solution. It can be found on page 18. 43, in a seven-and-a-half line, with president's permission: ▪ A possible solution could be that a third energy package will be introduced into Icelandic rights but with legal notice that its directives for cross-border structures, e.g. Section 8. Regulation No. 713/2009, without value, such building blocks are not meant to leave here. The premise of this solution would be that the third energy package does not commit to Iceland to set up infrastructures across borders, but is a decision for Iceland's custody. If Iceland made the decision to build a cross-border infrastructure, the third energy package's law on cross-border infrastructure would be rechecked and considered. depending on whether or not they fit in with the constitution. This solution, however, is not flawless.◯ I completely agree with these fine lawyers that this solution is not flawless. It's in the eye. Just the last line to look at should be the rule of the third energy package in case a cable was laid here. Who's to check the third energy package if they decide to put a cable here? Who's going to look at it? Will we look at it? If possible, these are the rules that apply to the entire European economy. Are we going to revise it? What's going on with this? I just can't figure it out at all. Your associates say that the solution is not flawless. I realize it's not perfect. There are other factors that can be found in this possible solution, and we have mentioned, for example. This legal note. It says that 8th C.E. Can't get any value. How can 8. Mrs. President, if it's introduced to Icelandic rights, don't you think? How can it not be meaningful? How on earth can you produce something, 8 pars. including, and say that it does not get any value? This is far above my understanding, Madam President. Where are the laws on the subject? Where are the instructions on his subject? What shall this be, or where shall it be set? Where do you find instructions on the subject and shape of the legal company? How will it be made? Where is the legal opinion of where he should be and what material he should be? Where is the legal opinion of that? Was this to be a Ministry Regulation? Was that the meaning? Where does it show? Was that supposed to be a change in the electronics? Where does it show? Is that the way to see if it works? There's a lot of concerns here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u42	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I would like to thank him for his zeal in identifying the legal aspect of this matter, which is of great importance and especially regarding the warnings the government has given one side, namely. not in agreement or in agreement with the other party, which is the European Union. It's unusual, naturally, if you put it in perspective with general negotiations. It is a principle of agreement that both parties are relatively at agreement and that they have their expectations and interests on an equal scale. It is a fundamental part of the agreement that both parties enjoy each other. In this case there is a difference in the extent to which we do not want to submit to this electronic directive any other way than setting a warning that may be considered whether or not. We in the Middle East believe they're highly dangerous. I wanted to ask you what. A senator to see if he knows from his previous career as a businessman for many years that governments choose a route that is not the best way to such an important matter. [[The president calls.]] Does he know this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u43	President wants less of it. Councilmen are to respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u44	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's son's offer for the question. No, I don't remember at the moment an example like that. On the other hand, the fundamental question always arises if a person makes legal warnings, whoever he is, and wherever he is, regardless of what he is saying: What is his national value? Does he tie us up, or doesn't he tie us up? Will he maintain with our clients in the European Economic Area? Is there anything in it? How might he be put to the test? That is the fundamental question in the event of that question. Consider the opinion of their companions, Stefán Már Stefánsson's son, and Friðrik Friðurk's Árni, Hirst's son - you've said those names so often that they sound like this. They ask on page 19. 34 and 35 in their complex opinion: How might this be put to the test? Induction might lead to, Madam President, that a company asking to put in this sea cable that would be rejected by the Power Institute could turn to ESA for a lawsuit that could end with a violation of a contract against Iceland. That's what they think. Then they say that the solution here is not flawless. Is the problem that we're going to get a lawsuit if someone wants to put a cable in here? It's on page 8. If someone has missed it, then he will be there. This is made plain in their opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u45	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. You see, there's a lot of uncertainty. I cut it today, after I had prepared unprepared inquiries, I said the highest. Prime Minister that she hoped there would not be a sea cable. I feel that this suggests that the prime minister is fully aware that there is a lot of uncertainty in the government's methodology. V.E.G. The prime minister could have made sure of this so that she wouldn't even have to worry about getting a cable here by going on a legal route, which is part of the EEA joint committee for a permanent release. Then there's no reason to hope that this cable will not be laid because we've already made sure by the legal means that it won't happen because that's when we're not under this rule, a third energy package, which will be activated by putting a sea cable here. I couldn't agree more. A senator's concern is that this part of the opinion of the group is very important and should be a message to the government that this route contains so much uncertainty that it should never have been chosen, which makes the government. [[The president calls.]] They choose a path that is not the best, so they take great risks.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u46	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the question. As I read the data better, I'll always be more aware of what kind of adventure we're doing. Government leaders are holding on to an adventure tour that no one really knows where it ends. It's not yet been investigated, it's just a suggestion at the end of the generation's opinion, just at the end. It hasn't been studied. It's possible that there could be a contract violation. If someone wanted to take a cable and get rejected, they could have a contract break with Iceland, and then we could become mandatory. They could go to ESA on such a case, as these legal advisers in the government say that in such cases Iceland's situation might be difficult. That expression. This case might be difficult for Iceland. Is this the many-talking flaw, Madam President? Is he there? We're offering the risk of an international contract violation. We may be sentenced to lull out millions or millions of people because they do not have their eyes open at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. Don't look at things hard enough, don't listen to those who point this out, the legal partners of the government themselves point this out. We come up here with our inadequacies and read hundreds of pages, and we see them gradually, and this is becoming evident today in the face of a global nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u47	Madam President. The logical following is one of the many experts who have talked about this and are not satisfied with the conduct of the greater section of the Council of the Eyjólfur Ármannsson Act. That is exactly what he says on page 19. 2, with President's permission: Therefore, it would appear that a correct national commitment to the principal natural resource of Iceland should be introduced by a Regulation but reviewed later - if a cable is laid - the legal basis of that Regulation and should also consider whether the induction conforms to the Iceland Constitution. Obviously, the government itself is in doubt about both the legal basis for the proposed implementation of national rights bonds and if it conforms to a constitution. This fine man would like to deny that the government has nothing to do with whether or not theirs is in harmony with a constitution and whether it has a legal basis. Now I'm asking why. A senator who is legally educated: What do you call it when an authority in this case or the national government decides to implement a specific structure without being sure that it is a constitution and without being sure that it has legal basis? Isn't there a legal term for such behavior?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u48	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's question to him and refer to the fine lawyer Eyjólfur Bjöllmann's Ármannsson who sent in to the State Department of State and Professional Affairs Committee detailed reports of the proposals for Congress and also the rest of the Senate, the legal bill and the Congress hearings that are on the job board. I've been over the reviews of this lawyer and I'm impressed. He points to various issues that shed light on the matter from different angles. I know that he lives in Norway, so he may look at this from another location, and it's always good to get a view from many sources. With the induction, I believe that this may not happen completely knowingly at all. I've explained in my previous talks how I see it. I knew that there was a lot of opposition to the introduction of this energy rule a few months ago within the board of directors. Then came the idea of a legal advance, that it would be clever to introduce it legally in advance. Then all opposition seemed to fade away. She disappeared like the dew before the sun. I've described how it happened. Of course, not everyone knows the details of the situation, as some have. We're on our way somewhere, but maybe not enough, but the others are just following the natural train.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u49	Mr. President. That's exactly what you've been thinking about for a long, long time. What led all those senators who claimed to have had their feet cold first turned away so completely? Now I think we've made it clear in any case that these so - called legal premiums are not worth a dime. We have presented it, but these senators are still trapped, especially those in doubt who are now convinced. They cannot return to what appears to be. They cannot agree with this, and the evidence and the evidence we have presented, and they may not seem sufficient to see that they were either deceived or deceived to support this case without being sure that it was a law, a constitution of the country. We have noted several times that we have all sworn an oath to the same constitution. That is why you must be very concerned that if governments as such, i.e. The government and the administrative body are prepared to go on a mission that they are not sure will be a law or a constitution, a legal basis, or a constitution. So you wonder, " What is the major journey? Those members of the council who changed their mind and went to bed on this matter. ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u50	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the questions and meditation. He wondered what caused the opposition of members of the Parliament who had serious doubts about the induction of EU energy directives that we are dealing with, and why they were turning in doubt. I want to believe that. A senator, that it is always possible to study things better and change your mind, and even if you do not change your mind, at least you can decide to consider the matter and, as we are pointing out, to postpone the case. Even if they don't turn to 180 degrees, you can say to yourself, " There are more things in this than I thought, and I'm ready to delay this for a while and take a closer look at it and get some advice, suggestions on what's going on and it's pointed out, which is a lot of things that have been presented here. It is basic to such an important matter as this for one of our major resources and the nation's resources, which are the falling waters and energy from those we can use. This is about the future of the barren generations of Iceland. Rather, there should be time to consider the matter, and if there is any doubt in them, it would be better to take a brief break and consider the matter carefully before making very important decisions. I have the hope that people will be open and listen to the discussion and learn something new. I have hope for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u51	Mr. President. So I just keep on spinning the cable that was knocked down here so much I feel so great about making decisions that people should know they can't be made back. That's why you thought people wanted to be absolutely certain. As everybody knows, there seems to be a measure of fear in the management team using the 102 stret. So I happen to be here quoting a master essay in the law by Ari Hólmur Ketilsson, which is actually a short quote, in which he speaks of exactly the application of 102 gr. It may be that this list of names has the cold feet in it. It says, by permission of the President: It has happened that the European Commission has used 4 mg. 102st. when the EFTA countries had not adopted the contract due to the Directive 2001/98/EC on the provision of the financial system to be used for financial theft and, on the basis of the Directive 2004/38/EC on the rights of the Union's citizens and their candidates for free passage and residence in the Member States. I've been in over 40,66. mg 102st. the procedure is described. 4 mg. 102st. states that if it is not possible to agree on the change in the terms of the agreement, the joint EEA Commission shall investigate all available options to ensure continued good implementation of the contract and make necessary decisions accordingly. Such a decision must be made no later than at the end of a six - month period. However, if the committee has not reached a conclusion within the deadline described in Article 4. will be used to treat parties with rule 5 mg. 102st. The implementation of the relevant addition should then be considered temporarily delayed, unless it is decided otherwise by the joint EEA committee. This delay takes six months after the 4th hour deadline. is complete, but not before the relevant implementation within the EU. The solution to the case should continue to be done on the first occasion. Despite this, subjects are required to do so according to 6 mg. 102st. to discuss the consequences of such postponement within the joint EEA committee and agree on the need for a change in response to the postponement. Is it in the hands of the European Commission to evaluate the addition of the new legislation, as 2 mg. 102st. If 2 and 5 mg. read at the same time, it can be seen that the entire Annex is not postponed, but only the part of the new legislation is applied directly to. The Joint EEA generally does not evaluate the value range of the model until it is agreed within the EU. It is not possible that parties will be able to agree to postpone the implementation of a certain part of the contract. When part of the contract comes to delay, it is not so that it is left alone. 5 mg. 102st. says that people should endeavor to agree on a solution that can be accepted by all. What, then, does such procrastination involve? Six. 102st. it shows that the rights and responsibilities as individuals and people on the job have remained despite the continuation of the contract. This is to make sure that there is no new rights based on the delayed part of the contract. It is evident that by extension of the EU contract procedure, there will be a partial value for different rules within the EEA, rules that would apply within the EU would not be valid within the EFTA and vice versa. Would that be a violation of 1st paragraph. The EEA Treaty recognizes that the parties of the contract will do all they can to prevent continuation of the contract. Clearly, the stakes of the contract are that no continuation of the contract is required. It is unlikely that this would happen, it can be noted that the above mentioned examples in which the European Commission began the procedure to postpone the implementation of the contract, but did not follow that it did not occur to delay the implementation of the EEA contract. The EU used the EFTA countries to put the person in charge of the EEA contract by threatening to postpone its implementation. The EU interest rates were, though, that they did not come for postponement, even though the amount of deadlines would have been up to date. This shows that the parties of the contract are ready to go quite far before the implementation of the contract, as this will not guarantee their best interests. However, the question can be asked whether these rules are appropriate in the present form. If it's their purpose to keep partying to the bargaining table, they've reached it once they've been put in place.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u52	A respectable president. I thank the senator for this great and rapid reading. That's a pretty fast one.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u53	We've had our dosing time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u54	Now, the senator may be right that this had some effect, but that does not change the fact that the contract is written on specific guidelines and the rules allow them to be new, they are not just on punt. That's not how these contracts work. However, it may be a better solution, though it is the correct legal way to return this matter to the EEA Committee, to accept simply for the members of the table that this case does not have the approval and approval expected of the Congress and of any less important in society. So it is appropriate to examine and examine it further. You wonder if it is not the European Union's best interest to provide, I do not say infinity, but very long time to pick it up, and especially in view of the fact that their wagon continues to follow the tracks. Now we have the fourth energy package, as mentioned here several times. That my knowledge should be an opportunity to take a closer look. For example, there are new information, one piece of a fourth energy package, as well as the information available today regarding investors in Britain. I'm asking why. A senator: Is it not wise to slow down and examine all aspects of this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u55	Mr. President. In the conclusion of this long text, which I went all too fast with because time is very low dose, e.g. is now upon me 11 seconds, this fine man says, by permission of the President: ▪ The other person may ask himself, " Is it appropriate to have a rule for continuation of the contract? ' Is it the only way to scare a party from refusing film made in the contract? That's where we may be getting to the point. The management personnel may have read this description, scared the hell out of their minds, so they are not afraid to take a chance to reject it and send it to the joint EEA committee as advised by the probable three different sources. I have long wondered what it would be like to scare a man away from taking this for granted. The EEA Convention contains a number of articles. Why are we not going to follow this article, 102? par.? Why are we going to say, " She's never used, and we don't dare? ' She's over there, and she was meant to be used if there's a difference between two giants. You don't quite understand. They claim that this government has already been known to be discouraged in such difficult matters, especially in the case of foreigners. It's like people only get their knees when they hear foreign talk. Maybe this recipe is here that I read before one reason why men don't go out and do what we say is right and is related and allowed. But it's like a person's discouragement and afraid to go all the way when he sees a description like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u56	A respectable president. It's a little special to have some ways to settle this issue, but no one seems to want to do so. On the other hand, what I'm most concerned about is what I want to pray about. Also, a senator considering that we are on that bus now trying to complete this matter, as the senator described, no matter what happens, from the fact that all the decisions we are about to be made, will now appear to follow us into the next stage in all of this, just as agreed in a pack of two or another energy directive now into a pack of three. It's a combination that aims at one. We have to look at this together as a unit. Therefore, it is important not to watch e.g. the EEA Convention as some level of articles that you can just take out. Whether used or not, the agreement is one common agreement and the articles in it. That is why this matter must be watched, just as clearly as it is known to me. It's one combination, all these energy packages, and we can't take out one package and say, once we've introduced the ball of this: we're done with this. We can't do that. We don't want to record this. It was a mistake. Or when we reach an energy pack of four or five, or how many of them are there, to say. Now we're not going to bring in any more. We've reached the end of the hot dog that's been causing us to bite off the whole time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u57	Mr. President. I remember that when I was new to the council, an impatient young senator, as is called, at the best of his age, I turned my back on this second pack that we had not recently approved and had entered the Icelandic rights, and we had to replace our energy companies. We didn't have to, but we divided them up because we were more Catholic than the pope. If we hadn't had to do it the way we did, we would. I remember talking to older, more experienced men in this business and saying, "Why on earth do we just not reveal this? We made a mistake there. We took it all too seriously. So let's split up companies that we wouldn't have had to do, raise the energy prices to the public, and not just stock of energy prices, but, if we'd put together energy prices and transport, home and business burdens. And I said, "That's bullshit. Let's call it off. And I was told, "Hey, my dear. It's not really like that. This type has been recorded. If you're gonna get away from her, you're gonna have to cancel the whole EEA deal. Now the third energy pack is here. And I have quoted a few words from an elderly lawyer I met the other day, and he said: "It doesn't matter if we've made some mistake in the past, including. ... you'reusing Number 1, bringing in Number 2 as we did, it's time to step down your leg. And he said: "It doesn't matter if there was ever any way you could have been more comfortable with this matter. We can still send this to the joint EEA committee, get the results that can be obtained by negotiations, and then implement this with serious EU initiatives that will not be at odds. Then we can import this energy package as we have introduced all other types that have come from the EU, but only on our terms, with a agreement that it will keep it safely.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u58	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'd like to quote one of the reviews of the Senate resolution. Here I have a book, incorporated, that contains all the reviews for the proposal. For fun, I can be sure I heard on the radio that I stepped in a chair with some old boxing. It's this book here. You can see how the report differs from that of the council speakers. It's a very important book. It's all the reviews of the Senate resolution. I am here with the review of Jón Hannibalsson's son, former foreign minister, who is often called the father of the EEA Convention and one of our leading specialists in his regard. He asks, with permission from the President: Will rejection of energy input package 3 [...] upset the EEA contract? The answer to that question is no.◯ Then he speaks of the right to refuse this induction and go to the joint EEA committee, and he says: This unambiguous right of the EEA Member States in order to reject the implementation of legislation by national interest, without substitution, was from the beginning one of the main arguments for the implementation of power under the contract within the limit of what agreed with the unchanged constitution. If there is a doubt, we can always refuse. I'd like to ask you what. A senator in this context: Does he not find it strange for him not to be listened, e.g. has a former minister of foreign affairs, who is called the father of the agreement and should know the agreement best?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u59	Mr. President. If there is anything that proves what we Middle Class have claimed, that this package should be initiated above class politics, it is the fact that men like Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, Sighvatur Björgvinsson, Þorvarðardóttir, Tómas Ingi Olrich, Davíð Oddsson, I could continue to count into the infinite, Algmund Jónasson, Hjörleifur Guttormsson, Styrmir Gunnarsson, people who have not clean the same principles as pure political opinions, all of the people who have observed the EES Convention since he was created and accepted in its time, warning of this journey and of the government. Of course, it is unlikely that people will not be listened to what these people have to say, e.g. men with experience, such as Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson. A senator and a chief. Ministers who were in charge of this case at the time of the renovation of the contract. Let's be content with these good people and say we're just a group of confused people who don't know what they're doing, etc. Let's leave it all in between things. But when people fail to take note of this experience and this background, they come to what I said earlier that it seems that the intent to set the matter straight is so determined and strong that it is as if they don't respond to evidence. And how serious that is when we do not respond to reasoning! I don't want to, and I know that no one in this room would want to be able to point out later and say, "We told you these things. " That's not what we're working with this thing we're doing right now. [[The president calls.]] We're warning you.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u60	Mr. President. Thank you. The answer to the question is that it is very strange not to be listened to those who are familiar with the matter and the ideologies behind such regulations as 102. ... inthecontraction. Sources follow essays. That's where the idea is behind the law, we know it. This is, in fact, a solution to misconstrued with the laws of the law, if there is any disagreement on the interpretation of the law, men go into the report and try to find out what the law's will was in that subject. The exact same thing about the EEA deal. You need to listen when men involved in the Icelandic contract and recognize it through, as in this case former minister of state, Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, describe the origin of the concept. 102st. Which is very important to the deal. That's why you ask me why. A senator rightly does: Why do people ignore all of this? Why is it running so hard and you don't want to go the way the deal itself suggests? To this end, there has never been any sound argument that, of course, sows seeds of suspicion, is that there are some interests behind which people value more than the national interests of taking the legal course. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u61	Mr. President. One thing is not to listen to all those people I listed earlier and like a boy. A senator pointed out, former U.S. Foreign Minister and why. paritaprevir Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, who is not listening to the nation, is opposed to this agreement. When we put together that 62% of the people are opposed to the contract and that many of the people involved in this contract are warning of this procedure and that 70% of the comments received on this matter were negative, including at least 70% of the cases reported on this matter. Three or four lawyers, it's like you don't see it. It's like a man's hand was chosen. They chose to accept one more positive lawyer and another who had a similar positive attitude and listened to them. There were two people who were very careful and they were so careful that they were asked to add a little bit, without me trying to minimize their scholarly honor. There is a reservation that they said this and that, which is very controversial and has been reasoned by both of us here and others, that they would certainly have chosen to send this to the joint committee. Then there may be two others who are more determined to send these to the joint committee. They did not listen. I spoke to the minister of foreign affairs the other day and called Eyjólfur the Year's Ármannsson. It was almost like the highest. The minister of foreign affairs wanted to minimize that man, saying: "We used the finest experts in the world. He thereby minimized this fine man, who reasoned very well, and I've used his report quite much and will continue to use it because I haven't even read from it all the good that can be done there. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u62	Mr. President. I see that it's probably about time we're having a fight. That's better. Thank you, chief. President. First, I want to say that I am aware that I have promised a number of features of this case that I have not yet won the time to move. But I'd like to take a little bit of the fun out of it because of it. paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautił mentioned something earlier that I believe is very important that we consider in this discussion, something that, in fact, should have been part of the government's opinion or approach to this introduction, but it has been called very limited. It is a combination of EU regulations to another rule, i.e. taking into account that the induction of the energy package and its underlying regularity are already being influenced by the interpretation of various other rules that have already been introduced by the relationship. Hv. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason specifically spoke with competitive rules. I don't think it's out of the way, because we already have a very clear example of this in the case of the meat matter so often how competitive rules in the European Union were used to interpret the rules about everything else, something that we Iceland thought we had a clear exception, i.e. on agricultural and marine outlets. It is time for this discussion to reflect only on these vital factors, for by bringing in a third energy package, we are not just accepting all of the energy - related regulations, but it is reasonable to assume that there will be a rule in connection with another EU principle, especially in competitive matters. Now the European Court is of the nature, and we can see from many judgments that it is very objective. As with the formal law text, the regulations themselves do, so are their goals. Of course, this is something that has been discussed in the United States to form, from the United States Supreme Court, over 100 years old, whether to weigh the outweighment, the aims of the law, or the sound of the law. However, this is not a matter of opinion in Europe, since goals generally outweigh the laws of the law if there is any overlap. We remember this from the Icesave debate, where the European Union and the British and the Dutch lawsuits were largely concerned about what was the main objective of order, rather than the law itself, because they were the clear and legal rights of Iceland. Happily, the EFTA Court agreed that the law should be considered primarily. However, the European Protocol presents the main objectives of the European Union. Now I can hardly believe that time is running out, Mr. President, because I'm just beginning with the introduction to this important factor. But since I'm so low-dosed I'd like to say right at the end that this point, which I'm just about to start with, is still another reminder that we need to look at what is contained in the fourth energy package because it has a lot of explanation for the European Union's main objective through the implementation of the third energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u63	V.E.G. President. I thank you for this fine talk and look forward to the continuation of it. Hv. A senator speaks of progress, i.e. how this will lead us, how the energy market in this case will look after the induction of the fourth energy package, etc. We do not know exactly where the development of the energy market will end. No one has told us that they will be six and that no more, these energy packages, or how many of them will be. I also assume that when the European Union reviewed its energy policy after some year, some emphasis and some factors might change. The process we've been in since we picked up the first energy directive, and then there's no one else. Hence, it is very important to put emphasis on trying to see the bigger picture as much as we can. In view of the fact that this is one combination and that we need to be able to figure out how it looks as much as it can look, the announcements published on the European Union website on the fourth energy package can be considered. That's where even the two of them come from. to achieve the aim of changing the fourth energy package has been updated Regulation 72/2009 and Regulation 714/2009, i.e. install a new Risk Management Regulation, add and modify the role of ACER. We're talking about the fourth energy package, but we haven't already introduced it. We're discussing these types now with regard to the third.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u64	Mr. President. Like what? A senator rightly does not know where this ends in that we do not know how many packs of energy are going to be. However, not only do we have clues but we have an excellent interpretation of where the policy is, and the European Union, beyond the development of the Iceland government, has a declared objective. It has a purpose and a vision of where it is heading. Of course, there are differences as to whether this vision is desirable for Europe or not. I have doubts about it, but others may not. However, there is a policy, and there is no least energy policy, which, as mentioned earlier, is one of the two most important European Union targets, this vision of energy, especially in view of the emphasis on climate and increased access to renewable energy sources. We can imagine what is about to happen, and then we can see evolution in order to form the changes that we need. A senator mentioned and this fourth energy package. We see that it is all the way to confirm what a person had suspected, that whether the energy packages eventually become five, six, seven or ten, they all aim to increase the European Community's central management authority on energy issues and including the authority of the institutions of the Union to motivate this development to occur and, in fact, become higher than the national powers about that development, i.e. has power over the countries beyond what governments can share in.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u65	A respectable president. The European Union defines energy like any other commercial product. It has the standards for goods in general. Of course, there are policies and goals regarding energy. It's not exactly the same course as with any other product, but it has the same value. Energy is just a commercial product, and it stresses that there are competitions, markets are homogenous, energy policy aims for all 500 million, or how many there are, plus Iceland, living in the same environment. How understandable it is when you have 28 countries today, or how many people there are now, who are different and mean, are having these freckles, that you want some central control, but you can't outdo it. There should not be too much democracy to dissuade, but that is what many fear in the European Union. We saw, for example. on the day that 107 members of the French Parliament signed protests against privatizing a government company to demand the European Union's competitiveness. What interests me about this fourth energy package, too, is that the types that have been announced are the types that we are wondering today how it will affect Iceland. The ones we are wondering about are having an effect today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u66	Mr. President. In this regard, I would add that it is also interesting to see the French labor movement's reaction to this trend. There's been a reason to protest specifically the European Union's demand that the use of energy rights, in that case I think water - power activations, the use of activation rights, are being offered. This is the activation of the state energy company from the start, but now the European Union expects that right to be released. Then people like us are running empty when we call attention to the dangers of energy management because of the third energy package. We have a unique position on the official possession of energy production on the land, in addition to the uniqueness of environmental energy. To add this and to comment. I would like to mention the comments made by Mervyn King, the former bank manager of England, brought about the euro and a fusion process related to it. He pointed out that for this currency to succeed, political unity had to be introduced, i.e. political power would have to be squeezed into one place. I'm a little afraid that the European Union will feel that the energy issues are the same thing, that in order for this system to work, it needs to tighten political power in the energy sector.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u67	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'm waiting for the rest of the day. It was very interesting. A senator came in, looking at the bigger picture. That's what's important. Sadly, the government and its supporters do not look at the bigger picture, do not look ahead. Like the Chinese, people look 100◯200 years into the future. Here in Iceland, there's a tendency to, at least, On the part of this government, not to look ahead. If we look at the bigger picture, it is the natural climate problem and the major changes we are facing in these areas. In Europe, there are many of the energy generated by burning fossil fuels. The European situation is very different from this one, we see it in terms of the electricity prices and there's a shortage of electricity in the European Union, but here we have enough electricity, here the price is stable. It's unstable in Europe. The situation is quite different, yet this process is being made, that we are participating in it. You ask yourself, " Is the danger not because we are drawn into this unstable system? ' As a result, we come to sell our clean energy to meet the needs of Europe. [[The president calls.]] I may have wanted to miss it. A senator in this regard whether it is shortsighted not to see the bigger picture, exactly as it is. A senator was describing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u68	The president asks why. The senator, please, will respect the time limit and help the president to take the softer bell.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u69	Mr. President. Hv. A senator put it as a risk that we were sucked into a process. I think that's exactly what I'm talking about. This puts us at risk of getting sucked into the process. No doubt there will be a very strong source in this area especially because of the importance of energy in general, energy is a natural fundamental factor in the entire business of society, but also because climate is such a priority that when the European Union feels it is possible to increase its access to environmental energy, there will be no compromises. Nowhere is such a high proportion of that energy produced as here in Iceland. Hv. A senator says that we don't do enough looking forward to this country in comparison with many other nations, and I think that's absolutely right. Hv. A senator also mentioned a lack of complete vision. But it goes together in my opinion and goes hand in hand. It lacks both long - term vision and overall vision in the actions of the government on this matter and, indeed, in so many others. Not only do people ignore the opportunities to predict where the trend will lead, but it also adds that the ultimate question of whether this induction is standing above the Constitution's head is on purpose. They seek to postpone answering that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u70	Mr. President. Thank you. The reply of a senator who agrees with him that it is serious to plan to postpone it, as we have seen. in the speech of the highest. Secretary of State, to take over this administrative feature until we face the sea cable case. I think it's a very interesting approach to this matter not to answer the question here and now whether the administrative guardian will hold and last the constitution. Pressing the problem ahead in confidence is a very specific method of work, such as the Supreme Court. The prime minister said today, hoping that there would be no cable. There's no courage. Governments are in themselves, and they are afraid to take the steps that must be taken with boldness, to take on this lasting release. I'm just calling it, Mr. President, the discouragement of putting off the matter that needs to be handled. This case needs to be straightened out. There's no way to keep the nation in any fear that could happen to a cable, and then we need to start dealing with the situation. It's just that the problem is being delayed, Mr. President, and it's never a good thing. It should be done at once and clean and given a clear exception. [[The president calls.]] That is the only lasting solution that makes sense.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u71	Mr. President. Of course, that is the only lasting solution. But when you look at the government's management of this case and its approach to it over your head, you'll think of a famous quote from John Lennon, who said something like that: Life is what happens when you're busy doing other plans. But it's not quite that Iceland's government would have to adapt by saying something like: Life is what happens when you're busy putting it off. This government has thus approached the situation, even in the presence of information on what is to be expected, and there is a solution clearly published in the EEA Convention, not as some sort of emergency inhibitor, but as a point to stress that this agreement is for the nations to work together on an equal basis. If anyone thinks he is inclined or that the agreement does not work with the interests of a certain nation, he has the advantage of going into the covenant process so called, looking for a solution that suits all. Not taking advantage of this possibility, in my opinion, is incomprehensible. It reviews the story of the jacket that many people know. The government on a car with a flat tire seems to have convinced themselves that the farmer will probably not lend his jacket and thus be ashamed of the farmer she has not even met to ask for his jacket.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u72	Mr. President. In this speech, I would like to recall just how Europe was treated in the 1980's and 1990's, what the trend has taken place, and how the European Union is on energy. The third energy package, a European Union Directive, stated that governments belonging to the European Union's internal energy market are forbidden to prevent links between countries. In 2007, the European Union decided to provide increased emphasis on cross-country between countries and to establish this because of the European Union's Energy Agency, which is this ACER institution, which has been named here more than once. This is done by regulations in 2009, which are called the third energy package, which is cut down by a Regulation, part of the 2013 fourth energy package. During the 1980's and 1990's, the European Union faced challenges when the Eastern European Union began to enter the European Union. These countries were more and less involved with all the infrastructures, we know it, including their electrical capacity, whether it was production or distribution. None of these apply to Iceland, who had developed their electronic energy issues as we know it, all the streets since 1936, when the activations at Sowön were put into use. Thus, all EU electricity directives initially took into account the underdeveloped energy markets that were mainly attributable to the Eastern European countries, but the subsequent years have been transferred to the predictable electricity deficiency in Western Europe, particularly due to the demand for ecological electricity production related to climate and measures against them. None of these factors apply to the Icelandic electricity market, for these directives have never done anything for Icelandic consumers except increase paperwork and cost. We know that electricity prices have increased here on these directives. Middle class members have already shown that electrical prices have increased by dozens of percent in certain cases and have refuted the facts of government officials that electricity prices have not gone up. Then we are told that consumer protection is so important, but we have already shown that there is a type of artificial competition in these materials, and it has provided a small amount of money for us. This has been determined by members of the Parliament and members of the council who support this matter from other categories, such as the United States and Homeland development, that consumer protection has made a big difference, the amount of money that could have been reduced. That's the wrong statement. The consumer groups made an offer for their clients in an effort to reduce the significant amount of electricity. One party made an offer, and it did not answer the cost of moving over the fact that the decrease was so insignificant, something about 0.6%. [[The president calls.]] I see the time has passed, Madam President. I need to finish this next speech and please have the president put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u73	Madam President. This was a very interesting new subject on this subject, the review of history and the European Union's interest in common energy policy. Keep in mind that energy was not part of the EEA Convention when we made it, of course it is briefly mentioned in the 141th environ ment. The addition of the deal, if I recall correctly, and it has just been used as evidence that we should not be under this common energy policy sold even if something has happened in the meantime, including ... bytheinduction of the first and second power directive. Whatever it is. That is exactly the reminder that many times and seasons have developed and the goals have shifted from what was originally set up. For example, the European Union itself was established as the European Commission of steel and coal, 1956, if I recall correctly, so that, of course, it has changed in its nature to a great degree. Therefore, we need to look at the goals they present, but with them in advance and in view that our goals can develop and change, but more important is that they are not too attached to the relationship, so that they can decide which direction we are taking as a community when its goals change. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed with me on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u74	Madam President. Yeah, I agree with what. A senator with this and that's why I'd like to call it "afraid," protests that the EEA Convention can be in danger if we take the legal way of refusing to implement the directive and take the case for the joint EEA Commission who has the responsibility to resolve a conflict such as this case so that we can work out a solution that both sides can enjoy. I don't think there's ever a risk of the contract because the EEA deal is extremely important to the European Union and is about to become more important in the future, just because our pure energy becomes more valuable and more important to the European Union every day. The European Union does not have access to cleaner energy, and fossil fuel use must be reduced and its commitment to climate. This is one aspect of having access to cleaner energy. And that access is available to the European Union through this directive and through the EEA integration process. To say that if we ask for any exception, it's in my opinion that it's impossible and that it's nothing more than fear propaganda on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u75	Madam President. I'm glad to hear that. A senator would agree with me on this. But there was a different talk. A senator I would like to ask him in particular. Actually, there's something that's already been discussed, but that's exactly why I'm going to ask about it, that it's been mentioned before, and I want to know what the situation is in it right now. This is about the development of prices. Hv. A senator was, I think it may be safe to say, the first to present it in this discussion with the facts on paper that energy prices had gone up to a great deal in Iceland by bringing in the previous EU electricity directives. In fact, in the context of the fact that this increase had been predicted at the time of induction in 2002 or 2003. Among those who warned of this was Björn Bjarnason, then member of the Independence Party, and indeed other members of the Party and other classes. But already it is. Birgir Þórarinsson's persistence pointed to the evidence that this was the case, he was accused of being wrong. He was accused of promoting false reasoning and was trying to deceive people. Now I'm asking why. A member of the Parliament: Has he been corrected by government officials? Has he even received an apology for the success of being accused of what happened? A senator on this matter of falsehood? I ask in view of the reason why. A senator has shown this with numbers on paper.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u76	Madam President. Thank you. Senator. The answer to this is simple: None of the directors have ever apologized to me for it. I gave this up in the beginning and explained my case, but no one has ever apologized to me. To say that I've been lying, it's a good thing, and it describes the management hearing in this regard. There was a call in the hall as well, and I had a word about it. A senator and the head of the State Department on a radio show accusing me of being wrong. I have corrected it, and I have demonstrated these increases with numbers and solid arguments, but no one has ever apologized to me and they have really gone the other way. It sums up the case, they try to turn it around, that the middle-class members make false records, etc. In the end, the executives who handle the wire transfers and not just the electrical price but also the role of consumer protection are that it is so crucial that prices can be lowered. I heard one before. A member of this case claims that the power bill could be reduced by up to 30,000 dollars. every year. They're completely unsuspecting letters. Given what is currently available, if you go to a page where you can switch energy dealers, you might make 1,000 bucks. a year's savings. It's all the savings. The misdeeds are shouting on the part of the government in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u77	President. I'd like to ask you what. A senator only into the energy prices debate and whether he has had any opportunity to examine it himself or to see any information about the presence of anything in the fourth energy package could possibly lead to an even greater increase in electrical prices than would be expected from a pack of three. There are certain obligations on the state regarding infrastructure, when a private person wants to produce electricity, place it on the system, and transport it. Hence, it is reasonable to wonder whether a continuation of these activities could possibly occur with a pack of four energy. Now I don't know if the Senator's been able to find out, but I'd like to ask him. Then it is all right to learn from history, and all of us try to learn from what has happened in our day. So it is important to ask, What has been the development of energy prices on markets, not only in Iceland, but in Europe? Not that long ago did it. The European Energy Corporation, the European Union, was able to adapt its currency to match, if I remember correctly, energy prices in Europe, and at that, all the criteria and rates, the contracts were taken into account by the new organisations. Is this likely to continue to be the next step in the electrical promotions?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u78	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think that's where it's at. A senator entered a very important program. Of course, a pack of four needs to be introduced in line with an energy pack of three because this is, like, a whale. A senator mentioned in his talk earlier tonight, a convergence that continues. To say that we don't have to worry about a pack of four energy, even though we've agreed on a three - pack of energy is a natural argument that is impossible. This all goes to the same goal that is common to the market and that we become participants in it. The four energy package, if I understand it correctly, has more to do with pure energy, energy exchange and everything in the struggle with the natural European Union. In this respect, a four - pack energy package is totally predictable by causing the cost of electricity in this country. Then this clean energy will probably be the most important energy in the European Union and it will probably pay high price for energy. But what may be the worst of all, is that the premeditated measures have been made to the European Energy Agency, which will have to say in what way energy is worth and how much we move out of it. I think it's quite safe to read from the data we have this connection, it's an inconsistencies between a pack of three and four that will increase the demand for clean electricity from Iceland. [[The president calls.]] It means that energy prices will increase in Iceland, increase to domestics and businesses in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u79	A respectable president. One of the things we've seen that we've been talking about in the fourth energy package is the efficiency of buildings and that's something we're gonna have to review, what changes are there in the ideas about the energy efficiency of buildings there. The review of the Industrial Association draws special attention to this. It's tempting to try to get some answers to that, I think that would be fine. What is this? Will the cost of construction or design or both rise? Should there be extra demand to improve the efficiency of buildings? Is this something Iceland might get an exception from? Are we likely to be given out? Does anything suggest that such changes will lead to an expense for the public and the business? We do not know this, but we do not know that this is somewhere in all these documents and types that the European Union has now sent and approved, so we must ask: Will it possibly add to other extra costs? Electric prices are rising. Will construction costs also increase? This may be a market in which some of these types can lead to high competition and lower energy prices somewhere, but in Iceland there's really no competition. You can't compare this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u80	Madam President. Thank you. Senator. He is correct in saying that this situation is a completely different and competitive environment. And, in reality, on this market is a synthetic competition, as it were, as crystals in this so - called consumer protection that governments have claimed to be so terribly important. It's just that it's almost zero, and changing energy dealers, as mentioned earlier, doesn't answer costs. The competition environment here is different. Once we're in this common market with the European Union through the introduction of this energy package and then the transvestite cable, we have to compete for electrical prices in common markets, we have a home and a European company that will obviously lead to an increase in electricity prices here. Hv. A senator specifically mentioned and entered a very important point, which is a cost of building and changing construction regulations, etc. The effect really needs to be examined. That's not in the way. One of the issues which are completely uncontaminated with this directive and its induction is to consider the effects of this directive on e.g. The construction market in the country. The building system here is complex enough, and it is said to be a delay for projects, etc. in times when housing is scarce. Of course, this part should be carefully examined. Thank you. A senator for pointing out the importance of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u81	President. I used to talk earlier over questions that I believe are important to put in context and answer to the four energy packs and the overall picture being created. So I think we're actually taking this step in implementing EU energy policy. We don't have our own energy policy, at least. The questions I've wondered about are, for example, the ones I was asking. A senator in answer to the energy efficiency of a building changing from a pack of three to four energy. The ACER U.S.A. is getting more power and if so, what are they? What I want to do now is probably one of the most important questions: What does the change or update that the four energy package has on the previous types and energy package for the Iceland Constitution? Is it more authority? Do we have to give up more of the power market control than is today with a pack of three energy? Where, then, does the increased supply of power lie, if that is? If expeditation is present, does this require special consideration of the component? Is this something that's small and that doesn't matter? Or is this something major? This is what I would like to connect to if a four-pack of energy might also call for people to turn it off on a administrative notice. It will start again the bus that's here at the council today for a pack of three energy. Now, for us senators, we have an opportunity to get a proper presentation on what this picture will mean and how it will have a long - term effect in Iceland. But I'm sorry, Mr President, but it seems to me that we're the only ones who have any concern that the overall picture is becoming crooked or dangerous for Icelandic interests, but this induction continues. If the conclusion is that a pack of four also calls for a controlled warning, as with a pack of energy, it would be worth considering how the constitution is affected when the whole conversation is made. Let's not forget that it's not like you're in front of a panel and you can choose to take an energy package one and drop a pack of two and take four, etc., or take a pack of three and then release four. It's not like that. It doesn't work that way. This is one combination that aims to make the energy market homologous. It is quite clear to me that the European Union will not be able to achieve its goals. We should not, in itself, place a stone in the European Union by doing so. But of course, we should ask that we be no part of it, an island in the middle of the prom ocean with little if there is anything to do with a joint energy market. We will see what happens when we trust that we have warned those rules. We saw it in the meat shop. It's often better at home than it is, and I think it's appropriate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u82	Madam President. Thank you. Senator. He introduced a very important part that is whether this introduction will last for the constitution. Then it is appropriate to intervene in the opinion of Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson and Friðrik the Árni of Friðriksson son of Hirst because the things that call attention to this matter are that the government, as we mentioned earlier, is delaying the matter of opinion. It is postponing the taking of the government in advance. It'll be done if and when the cable comes. But, in their opinion, the company says, by permission of the President: No authority is available to accept laws that cannot be passed on to the Icelandic constitution, even if it is not to be tested in the face of an tolerated law code. So it has to be logical and indeed inevitable that a policy-making approach to policy-making agents related to the third energy package is already connected, and that is, before the General Assembly agrees with the third energy package. This is a very important aspect of my opinion. In fact, it is not permitted to postpone a discussion about the administrative aspect of the matter in the way the government is doing, on the grounds of which it sets in. That's why I'd like to ask him why. Senator: Is this not the way the government is taking a great deal of risk? [[The president calls.]] What does that count? A senator's choice was that she did not trust her to follow this examination even now?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u83	President. It is difficult to answer why a person does not want to get to the bottom of government - based applications even now. It's not like it's a small thing and it can be pushed ahead. Another factor is that there will be a continuation of these assessments when the next package arrives. And when we take together our opinions, they are now so extensive that it is absolutely certain that humans cannot accept or accept them. Is that why people want to run it through now, that's what they've figured out? The four packets of energy have been examined and examined in the system. You may already realize that the prognostic factors are so serious and big that it is better to take them using microdoses, using the spoon, than to examine the overall picture. I don't know, but it's not impossible. It is also of interest that people are ready to push, try, and ignore the warning. Some of these facts are now understood by scholars. And it may be impossible for all humans to agree on these things and to agree on them. But I think it's very important not to take the chance but to analyze fully how serious the issues are, especially the rest.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u84	Madam President. This is important in the discussion. It is taking risks that may cost us dearly. The time will come when the preparation will not be sufficient, so it is surprising that the government does not want to postpone this matter. I can't see that no one's harmed by it. Therefore, it comes to the Spanish language to see how much the government puts forth effort to get the most out of it. There are not even observations on the effects of the directive on the job or the home. Here are the opinions we have obtained from the Parking Parker Society and the industry that are deeply concerned about this. It's just put there. There is no study to determine whether this is possible, so these articles do not cause harm. It's as if it's just a formality to get reviews from sources, and then they're written and booked, and then it's just over. It is as if people do not listen to the concerns expressed in the opinions of the groups that tell us that these sectors, such as. gardening can be very dangerous if it is introduced. It is as if humans have relatively little to worry about.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u85	Mr. President. One of the questions I've written and I'm going to go to the next talks is exactly: What are the estimates of the current energy market in Iceland due to induction of the next energy package? Where is the future, if we go the way that our gardeners now fear? Do they have any reason to be concerned about what follows? It is only natural that all of this is on the table and that people are concerned about the effect. But it is certainly very special to see what I'm going to try to call, and to use them rather delicate terms on this matter, the apathy of its followers when it comes to answering questions that have been presented. What is it that makes one not ready to calm down this process only, store the matter, or return it to the joint EEA committee to see the big picture I've mentioned several times? This is one of the things that bothers you in this matter, i.e. It's going fast. In itself, I do not recall anyone coming into this symposium and explaining to members of Congress why it is not possible to give a little more time to this, if they don't want to take it back to the joint committee. Of course it's taken a long time, that's for sure. It has, and for good reason. But from now on, there are three to six months of difference, not money.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u86	Madam President. It has been shown in this discussion for some time that the language we are talking about is complex, and in itself it can be difficult for the common people to understand exactly what it involves. I'm saying this because the group that's been down here in the middle of nowhere has been trying to look into this whole thing and to the extreme, full of it. Therefore, you wonder how the public in the country should weigh the information available to him. Those who present this matter have said that those who have studied are most likely to follow it. Then you must ask: Why do people not take just a little longer, introduce the matter more fully, and increase the number of followers of this matter? As the situation stands, about 62% of the people are opposed, and you say, " If you want to be at peace with the situation, it really does work well, why don't you introduce it better? ' They do the best to postpone it for a while and to introduce it to all who are concerned before the introduction is truly introduced. I'd like to ask you what. A senator for the insolence of the greater part at the General Assembly to present this matter really well to the most relevant people, the people themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u87	President. It is not good to see what makes this matter less informed and introduced, with some sort of argument about it. There's little use in sending some preacher from the government around the country to do something about how awesome this is if you can't criticize or dive into what may be dangerous in this same situation. It would have to be that way, of course. What I'm most excited about, and I've said here, and I continue to say, is that people don't want to use the opportunity that's in front of us right now to see the bigger picture. Do we want the EU energy policy to become our energy policy? A lawyerEyjólfur Ármannsson of a year's life, as well as the conclusion that I know exactly where he is, and clearly in my mind. There's a whole different situation in Iceland than in the European Union when it comes to energy. We are not sharing our electricity with any other people on their terms, no more than the fishing grounds. These are the resources we're using for our benefit. It would be cute if we were to start sharing other resources with the European Union or anyone else. I don't make a distinction between the European Union or Americans or just North countries if there was one on the table. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u88	Madam President. Perhaps this incessant nature is to introduce the matter as a result of what the news - name Eyjólfur son of Ármannsson himself says on page 6. 2, with President's permission: It is clear that the government itself is in doubt about both the legal basis for the proposed implementation of national rights obligations and whether it conforms to a constitution. They feel bad about defending themselves, and perhaps it is because they do not trust the warnings that do not keep water, as has been said many times and that they do. Of course, that is understandable. You can agree, for when people have a truly evil cause, they may not be very anxious to present that cause. That could be part of the explanation. The other thing is so different that I still haven't found an explanation, and I've been looking to what. A member of the team, of why governments, more things here at the General Assembly, do not listen to the warnings of experts. There is another inadequacy. If men are so self - confident, as the Eljóf of the YearEyjólfur Ármannsson states in his report, why do they not listen to warnings? I think this is how men at one time got two relevant opinions, hanging on them like dogs on flushing, not listening to warnings given by many experts, not just two, not three, but more, have shown that the induction is not the way it should be, and will not go up the way you would expect. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u89	President. We've had some tents to try to be more beautiful or to sell all of this. There was an expert from abroad, got a flight and a car, as they say, in order to pay the opinion and deal with certain things. I might have thought he was covering more on things he's not an expert on, politics, but, nevertheless, he's a pretty smart person and had actually declared it over 10, 15, 17, 18 years ago, maybe it's not so long ago that the EEA deal was an over-the-national agreement, that it wouldn't be that the Icelanders could be getting irritated by a constitution. It was a long time ago. I don't know if those who got this fine man to work for themselves agree with his opinion. But anyway, it's very difficult to throw away what the good people want to continue to do this. As the discussion progresses, the more you learn. It's just that way. There are new information, people outside this house who are very interested in this matter and who are deeply concerned about the case. They've sunk into these things, and maybe they should listen a little bit better, more than just we who are talking here tonight. It would be curious to know, Madam President - for at some point there was a complaint that the members of the council were somewhere outside the conference hall - whether there is someone from all classes in the area.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u90	All I wanted to do was kill the fact that this discussion has been called an example of national polygamy. Up at the Bifrost, there's an expert on plutonium, I don't know where he was studying, first thought of Hogwarts, but I didn't want to talk bad about Harry Potter, so I don't know if it's true. He says that populism is such that people live in fear of a foreign threat facing society. Second, they accuse the government of betraying the nation to the foreign powers, and third, they set themselves up as a defense against the foreign threat and against the domestic seism. In this analysis, the answer was as follows, by permission of the president: ▪ Now I am forced to speak up. People are concerned about the third pack of energy - asking persistent questions about the exercise of sovereignty and the national autonomy of their energy resources. The response? Worms and debates about their doubts: Skeptics (created by various means and coming in various directions) are appointed into one group accused of ethnic pride and poupulism, as can be learned from this discussion that I quoted earlier. In the second discussion, the group is called a group and a congregation. Certain individuals are mentioned by name, and they are then grouped together to make a display for the rest of the people to laugh and laugh. The other cannot be answered with logic. ▪ Is it not a reason to discuss this matter? It's not about patriotism. It's about the interests of the Icelanders. Why don't you reimburse the demand for a new constitution to protect the nation from property and greed in its energy resources and make it a requirement to be taken care of before the energy package is maintained? Where is that discussion? I don't hear it from local causes of responsibility and international cooperation. I just read newspaper articles that make up doubters, question their motives, and their purpose because they are middle-class people. But there are others. A number of people from all political groups have questions that have not been answered. The political scientist in the accompanying report describes the characteristics of national polygamy in the discussion and links them with the skeptics. ▪ One symptom is a generalization and a subject for decomposition. Who, then, is guilty of papalism during this discussion? This fistula writes earlier. paritaprevir Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir Þordóðurdóttir. It has been written in spite of the danger of being called the Patriot of Nationality and having the worst purpose. Madam President. I was going to read another article that I see that I do not have a chance to read from a word to a word, which explains that the opposition to the energy package has been shaped because of its starting influx of Iceland into a joint energy market in Europe, which would result in increased energy prices to the public as in Norway. Since then, it has been suggested that through a joint energy market, they may be at risk at the same market outside Iceland to make it easier to use and even activate Icelandic energy sources. In this fine article, we also see that the minister of foreign affairs has agreed with himself to present this matter as it is in this regard. One question remains, says this fine writer, and this is this, with the permission of a president: If an approved pack of three is accepted, what difference does it make? Then what is the need for the Allied Parliament to accept it? It's an ex-whisper. A senator and a former chief. Minister of Sighvatur Björgvinsson. I wonder if he'll fill up the popu art party like anybody else.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u91	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. He did a good job covering an article that was ex-whispered. A senator, Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir, the Þordóðurdóttir, had put in writing. Ólína is, as we know, a courageous sharpling, and although we have not always agreed on in politics, I truly respect her for following her strongly. I'm taking my hat off to people like that. I think that the image that is drawn up there is quite true and right for the atmosphere that one would like to draw up, especially for those they disagree with. There are other writings by alleged scholars in these matters, similar to those associated with members of the central class or with those taking the lead. But it doesn't mean anything to complain about it, it's just a thing we have to go through. How good it is when experienced individuals in social and political discussions see it as their former failures! Senator Þorvarðardóttir Þordónardótttir. You see, it's a key question, and I don't know if it's a question. A senator can answer that question. I'm going to ask you something else and keep the others. Why on earth are we accepting this third energy package if it doesn't matter for Iceland? To believe in those who are provided, these are small changes to the Power Institute. We don't need an energy package to change that. We can change these laws accordingly if we want to.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u92	Madam President. I stop at it, too, when people draw a picture of their opponents. When there is no argument in the case discussed, it paints a picture of its opponents as some undesirable mob with no independent opinion blindly followed by some myth. Nothing could be far from the real world, but this description is kind of a sad testimony. In fact, I don't know where the academic culture is going when colleges present balconies and snarts of this kind. In fact, it seems that there is now a demand for this in some media. Of course, people in the university sector want attention, like everyone else, and enjoy the 15 minutes they get in the sun each time. This is understandable, but it is relatively low, and such black - mouthing methods are not the norm. Not that I'm complaining or complaining. What I wanted to draw out is that it's so hard to reason with people, and we've come forward here day after day and night, showing that this matter we have in our hands is neglected. We may not be able to do well, but we're getting ourselves up as some sort of rescuer in this case is far away from here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u93	President. It is also very difficult to reason with people who are not involved in reasoning, who do not share in discussing the pros and cons or who are leading out of the current issue or about solutions. It is not good to try to argue with such reasoning, but we certainly do not give up on it. What I want to throw up is what I want to do. A senator is that I am wondering about the responsibility that politicians and I have on the legal and order that we take over. Often we've seen some accidents happen here, some cases have had to be fixed, etc. This isn't something we're going to fix if we create a three-pack of energy with skin and hair that's aimed at, the ideologies, the goals, all of this, and we're not going to turn around. We won't cancel this when this thing's in here. What the second part of this, or the four energy pack, is becoming apparent gradually, is quite clear, but is not a bit of a responsibility, then. Senator, are we going to finish this with so many questions that we've been wondering? Some of them come from us, some from the public and others are just out of the opinion they were given and even from the experts who have discussed this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u94	Madam President. Certainly it would help if there was someone in answer to it. This would help the discussion, it would help, and it would make things easier in itself. There was an old commercial on the national TV screen that sounded like this: "You're not going to make sure." I agree with what. A senator, from here on out, has been able to find his way through the past and even so that soon after they have been accepted here, they have passed through the council, and people have encouraged the problem. We are a group of men and women, who may have been a little bigger than he is now because we had in the group the group of people that fell out of the grip at some point because of something that they themselves explain and that we are left alone to explain this matter. It doesn't matter. The point is, when a person is careful to work and take the discussion all the way, it's slant in all corners: a filibuster, a filancy - which it isn't. There's no debate here. This has been a clear discussion, a drink - long one, but it is also because circumstances require it. We will try to influence this matter for good and will do all we can to that end. If it takes time, it just takes time. Don't take this time from the council. There's nobody here but us. We're not stalling anyone, we're not keeping anyone awake unless the people who are looking at us and the spring is bright and beautiful, so there's nothing left to count on. [[The president calls.]] Certainly would help, though, if we had someone to talk to.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u95	Madam President. Thank you. Senator. I just want to come in on one thing. A senator. That's the switch between the energy companies at the time, i.e. HD Power and Power Station, Reykjavík. These were dramatic decisions that led to the development of the Southnes'Grayham. Privateized, a firm owned and built by the Southns and had a social role that really mattered. And after the company is private, and then when it comes to the induction of an energy package one, you will see the consequences. The social part is to park heat, electricity, etc. in places that did not come from a business point of view that did not have much to do with the company. But what happens in all of this is that we actually bring in a directive from the European Union to divide the energy companies that we didn't have to do. We didn't have to do that. We went further than we had to do, and you wonder, " Why did the Icelandic government go so far? ' It must only be that the change is entirely the responsibility of the government. There must be something behind there, that there really is a cover. Could be, what. A senator, that was a cover-up, the replacement was actually a cover-up? Whether that was really the reason.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u96	Madam President. Now I don't want to see that something was behind the way packages number one and two were introduced. As mentioned in the discussion, they were introduced in a way that the Icelanders were, as at times before, in the EU types more Catholic than the pope. The aftereffects were certainly painful that this progressive business in the South was disposed of in the arms of a private member, although they are partially recovered, but we do not know if they will be. I simply insist that men did not take the time. It wasn't a good practice, and I've been working, for example. ... wordout. Congress officials at the time said: "This matter came through the council almost without discussion. So it may be even more important that we do not repeat that game now. That this case, which we have for the treatment of, the offspring of the two, does not follow the same procedure with the same bad tactics as with the same aftereffects that have been observed during the discussion, both tonight and night, and before. Even though we wanted to get out of package number two, because we saw that this substitution was damaging the country's higher energy prices and pushed the companies into private prostitution, we couldn't have backed up with our decision unless we were telling the EEA contract whole. That is exactly the same thing we are facing today. If this induction doesn't work, which I fear will not do, we can't get rid of it unless we tell the EEA whole deal and I think there's something that none of us want to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u97	Madam President. I agree with that. A senator, of course, that we want to keep the EEA deal going, and that's a big misunderstanding the propaganda that has been heard here that the Central Party wants this deal to go down. That's not true. On the other hand, we would like to, of course, stand on our rights in that contract and give a thorough reminder that it is a two - sided agreement between two parties, where both parties have their rights and their duties, in order to be maintained. I mention this exchange specifically because there is a classic example that we did not maintain our rights in enough ways. We didn't have to divide them up, but we did. Therefore, you wonder if there is any connection between governments not wanting them to turn down the energy package and take them to the joint committee to get results. It is as if there are some fears of respect for the European Union, men are afraid to stand up for their rights, even when it comes to doing more than the European Union really does, which has consequences. The exchange of funds led to consequences. The company was private waste, i.e. That's the Southnesian cryopreserved. As a result, the companies were divided into companies, and the price paid for them came to a natural cost. It's this connection, that it's like there's some kind of fear in the face of being on trial in this contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u98	Mr. President. I think it's pretty close. It has previously been observed in the discussion that the categories that are currently listed in this introduction have previously been known for the presence of foreigners. In this matter, I'm getting less and less as the discussion goes on, and I don't understand the need for truth. I don't understand the need to make the situation as it is now being done. I don't understand. I don't understand why people don't take the national top experts' advice on how to handle the situation. It's completely hidden from me. It's not like one or two parties warn us. There's a lot more than that. I don't get tired of saying that I don't understand, either, why the greater part of the World Council, the government, is so anxious to present a case that is opposed to the greater part of the nation. I just don't get it. This is a matter of magnitude that it should be above class politics. That should be the idea that we would have to stand here trying to protect the nation's interests. The matter should be so completed that we could all get along and handle it in a reasonable way. Sadly, because of the failure of the situation and because of what it looks like, we must stand here and try to protect the people from the issue. We have no choice.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u99	V.E.G. President. I've been asking questions about the rest, a pack of energy, and wondering a little bit about the fact that the followers of the case don't want to, I'm just gonna use an old saying here at the council, looking in the package, looking at the fourth package to see what's waiting for. I directed a few questions on the four energy package and actually five to the State Department. I'm gonna slide over this. I say even.Unable to connect to POP 1st A report on the content and right effects of a four energy package is requested and what is known about a five-pack. 2. Taking into account the four energy package and possibly five, what effect or change in land activation or role will be taken into account in terms of the law of the fourth energy package and the main lines of energy package five? 3. It appears that a pack of four energy has been introduced to Norway's government. Has he been introduced or sent to the Icelandic government? 4. What's Iceland's arrival to work on the induction of the fourth EU energy package? 5. What warning does Iceland make in the case of the fourth energy package? 6th What are the key changes in a fourth energy package? How do they affect the Icelandic electricity market? 7. What is the largest cost to Icelandic consumers to meet the obligations of a four - pack energy package? I believe these are all questions that are still valid in addition to the 17 or 18 questions I have written down, as the discussion continues. But the answers to these questions were very general. The first item to request a report and a report is, in fact, not answered. It doesn't seem to me, it's about the effect on land activation. There's no comment on what work is going on, etc. However, it is stated in the Ministry's answer that a special service group has been initiated on interest care and consultations regarding the induction of the fourth energy package. This case can now be traced back to November 2016, at least, where a proposal was made for new energy legislation under the reference Pure Energy for all Europeans or the Clean Energy for All Europe. The energy package changes the law considerably. It is only natural, then, that we ponder this, we who are concerned about the matter, and ask questions. Of course, you would have expected some answers to those questions, not in general. But this is what the Minister has sent us. I'm gonna let me make some comments that these are the answers. I think we'll just add them to the question that needs answering. I mentioned before, a respectable president, and I wondered if a four - pack of energy called for another lap of a talk about a administrative plan, as has been here for a pack of three energy. The question I'm going to add now, because there's not much time left, is: What is it that calls for a governmental notice, if so? I think there's a reason to ask this now because we're dealing with the number four Prefect, the third energy package. All of this hangs together. Therefore, these questions indicate that I am entitled to do so. It's too bad that there aren't any of those responsible for the case and the answer. In addition, it may be noted that there has been still little response to whether a person feels quite secure regarding the lack of major lawsuits by private members, lawyers, or individuals who may wish to land a sea cable.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u100	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I wanted to go over one with him. We've talked about many times the introduction to the third energy package creating a lot of uncertainty and putting unnecessary reductions on the use of Icelandic resources. On the other hand, it is dangerous to reject the induction and to take the legal course available to us. May it not be said that those who vote with this proposal are doing and really want to ensure that the Icelandic electrical system will connect with the European Union and there will be no turning back? You wonder, " What interests are being served? ' Is serving some hidden purpose that we cannot see? The focus of this discussion is, too, that you have seen newspaper articles following political parties that have opposed the energy bags but are now linked to them. A closer look at the person shows that he or she has become connected to this sector, the energy sector. You wonder: So you change your mind because you're connected to the energy sector now but you weren't? This is interesting research. Are we talking about some secret interest or some kind of political pressure that governments and governments do not want to recognize?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u101	A respectable president. Yes, it is true that there is certain legal uncertainty. This has been explained by the experts. Secret interests? This is very difficult for me to answer. It is very difficult to find reasons for wanting to do this at this suggested convention. It's a little special to see which classes are involved. It is a group that once was in great danger of independence in the country that now seems to be looking at it with other eyes, as is a social group that has suddenly gone to the market of resources. It's a special situation we're in. Of course, the group of members is on the case because they think this speeds up the journey into the European Union, which may not be happening. Hv. A senator asked: Do those members of Congress recognize that paying this vote is taking the first step in connecting to the European electricity market? I think they realize it in the ground, but I think it's been drawn up so that it's less than it really is. I'd like to encourage these fine members of our group to demand to know more about what is on the board for the future before a vote is taken, because once a pack of energy has been approved, there will be no turning back.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u102	Mr. President. There we go. A senator entered on a very important point. There will be no turning back when a pack of three has been approved. It's exactly what happened with an energy package one and a energy package two when companies like Southnes heat supply were divided up. There was no turning back. These companies will not be reunited. This is the replacement that went through and made it possible for one company to be private, the cost of dividing the companies up into the prices, so it had consequences, and it will not be reversed. The exact same thing happens now, like what happened. A senator rightly mentioned. There will be no turning back once a pack of energy has been approved, which is the basis for the market of energy in the European Economic Area. It's all ready once a pack of three is approved. When a cable arrives, we are ready to participate in this common market area. It's wishful thinking to say, like the highest. One prime minister did today, saying that she was hoping that a cable would not come. It's a natural saying that shouldn't be so undetermined in this regard, it's the job of politicians to make sure these things aren't inconsistencies, but don't say, "I hope this doesn't happen. " Make sure this doesn't happen. That's how it's supposed to be with politicians. They are to ensure that these things are not in doubt and will not have consequences in the near future.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u103	A respectable president. I thank the senator for these questions and concerns. Yes, this is the key point, there will be no turning back when the case is approved. The process has been made so that for some time it was tried to negotiate with the European Union on terms of access from this energy package and later its individual articles, or it would be composed of a certain text, an adaptation text so called, which the Icelanders could accept. It was more and less rejected, at least for all that was important. An exception from a gas protocol is as important as a railroad policy, it doesn't change everything for us. I'm scared, especially by the highest word. Prime Minister today, that there's probably just another trip with the next energy package, starting the whole process, trying to get a reserve that's definitely not available since they're not available right now, reasoning that we've already introduced so much that we don't have to be given any leave now. And then, in the same steps again, you have to discuss it here at the council, possibly for days, for days, whether it is strictly proper to do it this way, etc. Instead, we should say: "This isn't working out. We need to change this, and we're gonna do more than that, we're gonna look at a pack of energy four and we're gonna see where we're going to take this energy force all together. That's our right, signed into this deal. Why not take advantage of it when such a big matter exists? We're dealing with the nation's resources, not just the case we now have, but for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u104	A respectable president. Hv. In his talk the above asked the question: What is it in a pack of four energy that calls for a administrative notice? This raises the obvious question: Why do people not take the time needed to dissipate the currently available energy pack four, to discern what is in which a direct play is in harmony with a pack of three energy, and to fill it? In particular, I gripped a sentence fragment from a description of a pack of energy, which was reported in a story I think appeared in the Morning Press during the weekend, which said that one of the goals of a pack of four was extending and strengthening the authority of ACER. If this is really one of the goals of a four - pack of energy - because we experience it a little like an assembly where things are relatively early into some one - and with regard to the concerns we have of the case in a state of sovereignty, and so on, in the streets, I ask: A senator did not need to take one step back and take the time to discern what this situation really means?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u105	A respectable president. In my speech, I said that it would be wise to wonder if there's something in a pack of energy that calls for a administrative notice what it is and why it is. I wouldn't be surprised if it was closely related to our concerns and the issues we are discussing tonight and talking about last night or today, a pack of three energy. Hence, it is only natural for us to think about it and ask for information. It is also true that what has been published on the European Union website shows that there are significant changes in this ACER facility, including This means that it should be moved from a surveillance situation or by a consulting role in having the authority to say something to people, in order to ensure that governments are not setting rules or activities that damage the flow of the market. That's what this institution now gets, apparently, with a pack of four energy. All of this seems to me to have to dissect with what we're talking about right now because it's one case and one combination, it's the EU energy policy, and it's been since men started bringing it into Iceland. What's more, we don't know if it's the last thing that's gonna come, and I don't think it's personal. There must be more.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u106	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Isn't that exactly what we're in the most crystalline position, that it's so obvious and howling that it's necessary to look at these whole languages, a case facing the three energy packs and a pack of energy as it is available today? Although a person's voice is heard, some reversal seems to be about to begin at the moment, it is more important to get out of the case by finishing it in a vote. Does anything suggest that the completion of a pack of three energy by the government will make the project more practical for us in caring for the interests of an Icelandic nation when it comes to supplying energy package four? All common sense, ◯common sense, with the permission of a president, as it is called, tells you that it would be easier to take a stand and adjust the viewpoint if the two packs, three, and four were checked in a fold. Is there anything that the senator might think that might be simpler during the induction of the fourth energy package provided that the third is already created without any comparison? The objective could be possibly. to speed up adaptation to the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u107	A respectable president. Before we realized that last week, the fourth energy package was ready, fully fed, and offered, and that today's Britain's expectations for cable have been fully developed and financed, and all of which were considered to be enough to deal with this matter. If this new information is not designed to prompt depression. Councilmen who follow the case are trying to figure out the big picture, what the connection is, and what the consequences of taking all of this and entering it must say that it is a real disappointment to me. Surely they want to take advantage of this opportunity and wonder what this step could mean for the future and the rest. As I have noted earlier, we do not necessarily have in front of us an open book where we can read what the future holds. It is a privilege to do so. In some respects, it is because we have taken very slowly on this matter, tried to get a release, and so on, some say that it was gossiped, and we did not do it quickly enough. It's okay, but it's such a matter that you should be careful. It will not be easier to take care of the energy pack four when this case is finished because with the same reasoning we tried to protect against a pack of energy, our developer said: "You've introduced it and done it well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u108	Mr. President. I'm going to discuss a letter that was sent to the Norwegian government from ESA because of the intervention of activations that did not agree with the European Commission's service directive. The directive deals with the fact that the European Union wants to be in accordance with its directive that the activation permit will be assigned to a specific time period, which is up to a maximum of 30 years, according to the current criteria. Companies will be authorised for tenders where this maximum time will be allowed. This will inevitably lead to an increase in electricity prices because the highest bidden needs, natural, to get back their investment in a shorter time than has been generally considered in energy development, at least In Iceland, and I think it is safe to say that there was a longer standard than this in Norway, for example. In Norway it has been estimated that activation permits has been issued with an undisclosed duration and is considered to be of benefit to consumers since descriptation times and investments return over a long period of time. In Iceland, activation permits has been released to 60 years with spontaneous extensions over another 60 years. In my opinion, Merians had an 80-year activation permit, but that's said without responsibility. ESAs then sent the Icelandic government a letter similar to that of the Norwegians received in 2016, but that letter seems to have been placed down somewhere in the document booth, apparently, waiting for the approved third energy package to be reported. EU competitiveness laws will also affect Iceland's energy market. So I put it out of question, on Pirata's rioting or viewpoint that there is no third energy package that needs to be replaced: It may in itself be a positive move, but it may be more likely in the European Union's competitive legislation that public enterprise is not allowed to have about 85% market share in competition with private business and on the grounds it would be more likely to have to divide the company and sell a part of it. But that is another story. I'm going to allow me to go deeper into the issue of activation and the time frame of the available activation permit. In Norway, untimely activation permits is granted, as I said before, and without oer or offer, so access to a limited resource to a currency that no one knows which is the market price. This is what some call opaque, but the method is simple and intended to minimize costs that eventually land on electrical users. However, this is contrary to the Commission and the EEA Convention and is therefore clear to the conclusion that there will be one way or another old and new activation permits in the EEA market. The exact same thing will happen in Iceland. The granting permits in Þjótur and the Tungnau, which the state obtained from the Titanium Society, and made its establishment in 1965, will be, and can be applied to a single term, i.e. Private. They have to go back to the market on a so-called auction route if the ESA and the EU get their way. Development will be the same in the EFTA countries as in the EU. This will be difficult to resist as hard as it is to resist the ESA decision and the judgment of the EFTA Court on 2009's defense against animal and human diseases, as we know so well. This trend must lead to an increase in power prices, since the highest bidder, the one with the activation permit, if only for a relatively short period of time, would like to get something for it. This will eventually affect the power user. Whoever owns the activation permit has lost and the resources for the processing of the target activation, regardless of its owner. In this way, foreign energy companies are able to achieve a coalition of the activation owner and his provision for energy. This is exactly three pack of energy, for it is intended to turn a small domestic market into a huge internal market of the EU. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. President. I've got to ask to put myself back on the rosary. Some of my talk on this subject remains.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u109	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. He came into Norway in this relationship. It is very interesting and worth considering that the European Union and Norway have had a lot of communication in the force field, not only through the EEA Convention, but also by Ministerial conferences for a long time. Therefore, the importance of Iceland, which is in the North Atlantic and does not belong to the European Union's energy issues and common markets, is also highlighted by this package. You wonder: " Is it possible? A senator, that the Norwegian government has used pressure to accept the energy package? Because if we don't agree to it, we have a waiting position on this subject, because all the EFTA countries must accept the energy directive for it to become valid. In view of the great communication between Norway and the European Union, you wonder whether this causes concern in Norway, i.e. for governments which are natural in favour of cooperation with the European Union when it comes to energy, although the matter is very controversial in Norway. You think there's some pressure from the Norwegian government to not rock this boat and let's just follow the Norwegian guys in this regard. I wanted an opinion. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u110	A respectable president. The evidence points to that. While much was discussed with the skeptics on the induction of the third energy package, there have been under the various influence of Norway and that it was done that council members held more than 30 speeches on matters that are important to men and much to come, while former Ministers have written 30 blog mails about the fact that the Central Party takes orders from Norway, I have found this somewhat strange approach to former politicians and especially to the politicians, there I am referring to Björn Bjarnason's blog, former minister. I can predict in my part that I have not seen this great Norwegian influence on us skeptics through the induction of the energy package, but the Norwegian effects and the Europeans are faced with the government parties. Here came Norwegian ministers, forming with foreign ministers at a hearing under the pretext that these should be exported to Norway. It doesn't believe any man that the mission of the Norwegian Minister to Iceland was to be made by the highest power. Minister of Guðlaugur, Þór, the son of Þórðarson, was at the sound of his voice. Of course, something far more underlying. This is naturally about the time the Independence Party takes its U-turn, so I think the pressure from Norway has been very decisive in terms of the government groups but much less in terms of us skeptics.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u111	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator and a very interesting examination of this, that he may see there some kind of pressure from Norway, in the sense that we accept the energy package. It is a serious matter if we are put under such pressure because there is a measure of intervention in our business of affairs that is not to take place, as well as that of our circumstances. So you wonder what the next step will be in this regard. Is it a danger that the government does not bring our rights to stress when it comes, for example. of a pack of four energy? Hv. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson correctly stated that there is, of course, evidence that we cannot back out of a pack of four because we have so far gone into the induction process. Do governments, foreign ministers, and the government recognize that wanting to support Norway in this regard, not rocking this boat, can have the consequences for us that we are really in the process, without being returned? You see, it's what I feel is a lack of in the government groups, that people realize that there's no turning back. That may be the serious thing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u112	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson answers. I think this is part of the unpleasant feeling that many people have toward this matter. It seems that there is still one of the salamiites, as it is called, which is about to adapt the Icelandic system progressively to the European principle, and it should preferably occur in such a way that the least resistance is granted, primarily because the slice is so small at any time. Yet, there was an unexpected turn of events. There are not many members of Congress that claim it, actually one, but it is that in an analysis of the matter, as we now try to deal with it, so many smells, and many factors that need more attention. What I'm worried about is that there's a lot of this promotion that -- now I'm not suggesting that it's similar in terms and energy markets - but I suspect it's a big deal from induction issues that could benefit from a much better and thorough examination. But it's a field where Icelandic regulations are adjusted for the European, and it seems to be part of that path.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u113	Mr. President. This is often the case when European types are introduced, they come with costs. Often it is even underestimated when leaving the country because Iceland and I have had the practice of implementing European directives to the extreme, most of the time. This huge introduction, now available, has not been costed because it is a synonym. In fact, I think that if I'm wrong, if I'm wrong, I've made the least effort to score this matter, both in terms of state funds and not least the public in the country. We have noted in this discussion several times that it would be necessary and desirable and polite to consider the cost of this type so that the public in the country can appreciate the effect of the actions, induction, will have on their lives in a short and long time. Now, according to polls, 62% of the population is opposed to this. It is natural to introduce these things to people if they are to cooperate with the situation. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he feels that the cost is not right or makes some economic assessment of how much this case will cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u114	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's answer. This is just what has been called on in this discussion, the stage photos of what will take place in the third package, and the sea cable set up. What economic impact does this have on the electricity prices for homes and businesses, both big users and normal users? What's the experience with the development of electricity prices from induction of first and second energy packages? What can we learn from this? All of this is the information I have stated in previous talks that I simply don't understand that governments haven't made money and that they do these scenarios for us to make it easier for us to take our stand on the matter. They're in a void, they've seen the effects of the first and second energy package, and they know where the electrical prices are abroad, and so on. So it is quite unfaithful to hear a claim that the induction of the third energy package will ensure a reduction in electricity prices. I have to admit, there's something you're waiting for your nose to grow on the person who claims it. It does not make sense to believe that increasing the surveillance of the Power Agency will become such a revolution in this market that electrical prices will greatly decrease to all users. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u115	Mr. President. That's very interesting. The alleged consumer protection that has followed a two - pack of energy has resulted in the switch of over 300 households from 140,000 households, an enormous success. That is why a person stopped when he saw this stocio branch or or what he was supposed to call it, where a major conclusion was found that electrical prices would be reduced by the induction of this energy package. It is the opposite with the Norwegian experience of a similar package. Energy prices have increased and increased so much that the relationship between industrial drivers, such as smaller industrial unions and smaller companies, has been very concerned about their recovery, since several thousand employees have had to resign and even look for more exposés in that sector. I don't think it can resist any opinion that this induction will follow a reduction in energy prices to consumers. We don't have to, either. Senator, getting economic bills about what effect really will be? That 62% of the people are against these packages, and they do not want to be introduced, not because they have been stirred or intimidated by someone, but because they are suspicious, especially from the experiences of the earlier two packages that were introduced. Now I ask again: Is it not true that we ask for it with great weight that the economic effect of induction will be calculated? [[The president calls.]] You can hardly walk through the council with this package like a panko check.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u116	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Of course, that is a reasonable requirement. I demand that things like these be evaluated so that something cognitive will make it easier for us to take our stand for the next steps. However, it seems that the board members have been decided not to place any new data on the table on their own, received no requests for new information from us skeptics, and clearly overlooked data based directly on government classes, such as. a new supply of fourth energy package from the Council of Ministers. All of this is at the same well. It seems too painful for the government groups to rely on them to postpone it into the fall and thus have to take it back up again and give evidence of it and speak for it. You have a measure of sympathy for members of the council who are in the position to speak for a language for which they have no convictions and may even be directly opposed. I would be surprised if the talk we've been discussing and how limited they may have been to none of the senators who viewed the warnings as a core reason for changing their minds. That's part of what we're going to have to hammer on to get through.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u117	Mr. President. I want to make a subject of how politicians who once spoke against a energy package one and two have changed their mind, which raises questions. I'd like to mention the former minister of Independence, Björn Bjarnason, who has generally been a subject of both speech and literature. He spoke very highly against an energy package one and two at a time. He says, for example. when he is the representative of the Independents of the Central Energy Administration of Reykjavík in his own time to the European Union directive which the bill to a new energy law is based on, among other things, That is, the 2003 law is designed to be anything other than in this country. He counts the energy directive from the European Union, i.e. energy package one, it's not all about Icelandic circumstances, it's a completely different setting from here. So he doesn't understand why they haven't been looking for a release for Iceland from the directive. Now, 2019, however, Björn Bjarnason, former minister of the Independence Party, is on the lead of those who completely reject the issue of the Central Party. He has severely criticized the Central Party for opposing the source of the energy package and rejecting it, for example. we are especially looking for an exception. This raises some questions. Why is it that politicians take a very different stand - and he's not the only one who's changed his mind on this - but they did when the energy package was discussed in their own time? I think it would be informative for these people to be more specific. It has been shown that e.g. in Southnes, the induction of a pack of energy has made house - to - house electricity rise by up to 70 to 90% in cold areas. I've mentioned before that Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, w. A senator and president also spoke very violently against this in his day. Then there are other parties, such as. Steinar Jóhannsson, a former senator with left greens. He felt that Iceland should apply for annuity from this directive. There are, however, quite a few who have changed their mind in this regard. But I state that in this regard, I do not know the opinion Árni Jóhannsson. But you're wondering, are there any interests there, Madam President, who might be more specific? That's a lot of introductions into this discussion. We listen to the opinions of former executive ministers, former Ministers, such as. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson's former minister of foreign affairs The opinions of these individuals are of vital importance. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, Madam President, I believe it is very important that those who have changed their mind tell the rest of us why.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u118	President. It is a matter of observation why a certain group of senators and former and current Ministers, mainly former, seem to have taken a U-turn somewhere along the way. It's kind of weird, because I now say for myself that if I'd been involved in accepting a energy package one and two, I think I'd still be better at the battle against number three. I don't understand what's in them so they can change the course so completely. Sadly, it has not been submitted or confirmed by humans. In this discussion, we may have put it this way. A senator, and now the highest. The President of Allegis, Sturgim J. Sigfússon, in a speech chair to present us as one killed, as to why he has taken such a full stand on this matter. And, of course, if I can put it that way, Madam President, we will notice what some of his people have to say in this matter. That is why it would have been very precious to us in order to try to understand why this transition is going to take place. For men like Bjarnason, I can only guess, like a whale. A senator, whatever has led him to change his mind so completely, because Björn has been known as a man of principle who does not run to nothing. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to get some opinion. That is exactly what the senator had to think about.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u119	Madam President. Thank you. Senator. First, I'd like to apologize for quoting an article in the morning edition of September 24, 2003, quoted in The Árni of Steinar Jóhannsson, a former U.S. Army member of the Left Motion of the Green. This may not have been appropriate, since he is dead and there is no need to mention his views at that time. I'd like some respect from that, Madam President. I wanted to get in on it as a dog. A senator made this exchange, which I think is well worth trying to take a closer look. It will come, for example. ... totheprefect of former Minister Björn Bjarnason's son by permission of the President: I have expressed the opinion within the management board of Reykjavík's Power Office that if the company's clients' interests are guided by the assessment of this matter, they must be guided by the interests of the company. It has been observed in the administration of a new electronic law, which is thought to take into account the law of the European Union (EU) that electrical prices will rise. This is important to bear in mind. You'd think, like, what? A senator correctly mentioned that those who spoke against it and then saw the consequences of higher electricity prices, etc., should recognize the consequences and therefore be opposed to a pack of three. I agree with what. A senator in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u120	Madam President. Well, I guess they do, huh? former senators and the highest. Former ministers who have stepped in and warned of this package of energy, men who have nothing in common in politics, not anything, including For the reason that they were in it, if I could put it that way, to generate a energy package one and two. There are men like Tómas Ingi Olrich, Björgvinsson, Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson and Hjörleifur Guttormsson, and others, who have little or nothing in common political. But then, again, what has been said repeatedly, correctly: This case is not political. This case is not a group of antiquities. This case should be transverse, but unfortunately it is not, for some reason we cannot imagine. It seems that a large part of the members of the statesmen changed their minds, changed their horses in the middle, possibly because they were sold to the desperate guards. V.E.G. A minister has appeared to be a vacuum salesman and has sold them this advance to correct this case, but he does not. I'd like to have some thoughts at ease. The senator that it is not entirely true that, like Björnson, those who were involved at the time in implementing a pack of energy one and two are now measured with a pack of three energy, just as Bjarnason has become, which was against them. However, some of them have continued to do so, stressing their protests against the energy package. [[The president calls.]] It would be good to meditate on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u121	Madam President. Another concern, too, is that former Ministers did not seem to have realized the consequences of these directives to consumers. For example, when we are initiating this energy directive for the first time and altering the electronic law in 2003, former industrial minister said that it does not believe that electrical prices will go up. Of course, we should be able to trust when national rulers appear and tell us that there is nothing to fear for consumers, that electrical prices will not go up. Then comes the second day. We have attributed significant increases in electricity prices under certain circumstances, so it has been called "distinguished " because of its ban on the new directives. I think it's very sobering, and also, in view of the fact that now ministers come forward and tell us that we don't have to worry about a pack of energy alone, it doesn't come about by hand. In view of the foregoing, can we trust those words? That's what concerns me most.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u122	The president would like to know that it is difficult to refer to former senators who are unable to enter a torture suit and defend themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u123	Madam President. I'd love to take an offer from a president, but this one was completely over the finish line. Here the words of men who are not here day in and day out are quoted. None of those former counsellors and/or ex-whickers. In this discussion, members of the body of elders have been made no more difficult. I give myself up for this sort of speech that is completely unnecessary, out of rhythm, and uncool. I expect the highest. Mr. President, let it go because it's not necessary, and for no reason, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u124	Madam President. I'm surprised that the president makes a comment that there is a quoted ex - secretary who has issued a statement. Their words are in print, so these words are not being put into the mouth of the person. I don't see any reason to make a comment about it because this is an important part of the discussion. We're seeing a letter transfer from the Ministry where these things happen. This is official, and it is only natural and natural to quote them, so that they do not fully understand this comment in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u125	Madam President. I'm just going to point out that most of the quoted quoted at the former level. Minister and ex-whisper. By permission of the president, members of Congress have been made from written sources. If I remember correctly, the one standing here has, like, one. Quote Tómas Ingi Olrichur's comments from magazines after him and others, both the highest. Ministers and senators. I remember also quoting the words of Hjörleifur the son of Guttormsson, formerly the highest. Ministers and others, always, by quoting written documents that I have had with me and reading them by permission of the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u126	Madam President. I wanted to be like that. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's stone reviews my role in giving a witness to a former minister or general. I think there are two that I have quoted, Tómas Ingi Olrich, former minister of education on the part of the Independence Party, straight up from a newspaper article, word for word, by permission of president, and Agent Sturla Böðvarsson, former transport minister, in part from a newspaper article but otherwise in a material way. I don't think I've disagreed with former Ministers by the words I didn't have directly within my welcome after him.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u127	Then I think they're all well awake. The President was obliged to authorize a meeting board here in the middle of an answer. It won't be easy, but let's get the answers done.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u128	Madam President. A discussion about the chairmanship led me to forget also the subject of the discussion. Of course, the subject of the conference board was so closely related that it should have been kept in my memory. Thank you. paritaprevir The one before the speech is Þórarinsson's son. So many have been turned in the past few weeks on this matter, and I allow myself to say that most of them turned because of the so - called warning. I would think that it was not much exaggeration to say that about all those who were seriously opposed to the introduction and who are following that decision made by the so - called omens. I'm not aware of any other material that caused such a reversal, except for buying the argument that evil is best over, even though they knew there was little need for action. But changing one's mind is natural, and it can be a sign of maturity. But it is possible that it will occur on the basis of some change in the subject of matter. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he appreciates it as if it were likely that the warnings mentioned were such a change in the subject matter that justice on the three councils is the case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u129	Madam President. The parties would need to be overlooked if they believe that this is why they changed their mind. I haven't found it in their writings. So these prevention measures do not change the rise of electrical prices. It was the main reason for their concern at the time, for us to build a whole new system, a whole different market situation, than in Europe, and for us to have little in common with the market area in Europe. That's why they thought we should apply for notation. They may feel that the officers are the ones responsible for their willingness to accept this. But it is still a problem with what they have held out and held out at their time, and you have reason to believe that, in their opinion, we should not submit to this energy package simply because it would lead to higher electricity prices. But perhaps the point is that we listen to former ministers, former ministers, when they express their views. They knew the matter back then, and you would think that would require important reasons for changing your mind. We'll see, for example. that former secretary of state, Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, has stood very firm on this and is to say that we are not to accept the energy package, although he has been very close to that contract in his time. [[The president calls.]] We see the importance of listening to their explanation in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u130	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson's offer for the answer. If you look at the scene of former politicians that have participated in these discussions and changed your mind, and we try to control that group, the groups are quite unmatched in size. I quickly, without identifying men, can recall only one former minister who has gone from among them to have doubts in support of the case. But there are plenty of people who came in one way or another that either the EEA contract, the production of the first or the second energy package, now in terms of the third energy package. I tend to listen to the experience, especially in cases that cover so long time and matters that can have a lot of long - term effects and matters that those there express themselves have experience with the case themselves - in this case, these former politicians in one way or another have experience with this, either with the EEA agreement itself or with the first or second energy pack. As I say, the vast majority have turned toward skeptics. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Does he feel that there is some explanation that the past is so uneven in this regard? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u131	Madam President. Yeah, that's what I have to say. I think we need to listen to those who know things best. There, I have quoted former minister of foreign affairs more than once, Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson. As a rational man, he has always had the opportunity to bring matters forth clearly. He has declared that, first of all, the thought was never that energy would be in the European economy or within the contract, which in itself is interesting how evolution has developed. The contract has developed, so there are issues that we did not expect to be in the contract, such as energy and agriculture. It should be my opinion, and others have mentioned, to be a solid evidence of wanting to take the case to the joint EEA committee, just on the grounds that there's a large and large case that wasn't at the beginning of the contract. It is, of course, 25 years old, but it has changed a lot since it was made. In that respect, I believe that it is very important that we consider what the original ideas of the agreement were. There is an introduction to our language when it comes to applying for a permanent replacement which is very important to receive and it will, in fact, solve all the issues discussed here that are a major concern. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u132	V.E.G. President. I would like to, with the permission of a president, to present in an article after a former U.S.A. Minister, Sighvatur Björgvinsson, published on March 28, 2019, and the article is entitled "Why the Energy Pack? It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The situation with a pack of three energy has included shaped by him to begin the invasion of Iceland into a common European energy market. Such induction would include producing a very high energy prices to the general public, as agreed in Norway by Norway's contribution to the common European energy market. Such impacts are inevitable because they become a common market for energy sharing, energy sales and energy prices, as would be if Icelanders became involved in the European Union's common market for agricultural products - but to a loss of value, not a raise for the European public. However, there seems to be little interest in this marketing adjustment in the Icelandic government, even though it would reduce the household's spending on large amounts of money. It is acceptable to become party to markets, which increase the energy prices of households over large sums, but not acceptable to become a market member, reducing the cost of living in the same households for the same or higher sums. I don't agree with the former secretary in this regard, but let's let it be different. Then comes the second chapter of the article entitled Danger. It has then been suggested that involved in a joint energy market, there may be a risk that Member States in the same non- Iceland market will be able to make it easier to use and even activate Icelandic energy sources. Also, by involvement there is an open possibility that foreign capital owners can, largely by their own means, communicate between Icelandic energy and European energy needs using sea cable repairs. This also leads to involvement, although priming agents such as e.g. Agricultural development would allow higher energy prices to be afforded to the European market for energy, the increase would be due to the use of the energy, not to be available in Iceland, but in Europe. The respect fund for the consumption of energy, as shown here in national incomes of aluminium, silica, and other energy efficient industry and industry and income groups of citizens working in one of the European countries where Icelandic energy would be available, this is, of course, a direct result of involvement in a common energy market. Now a foreign minister in cooperation with his own party (reputedly), other ministers and members of the government groups have managed to negotiate a warning that he says will ensure that none of the above can happen. An energy pack agreed three objects that do not alter Iceland's membership to a European energy market, nothing to alter Iceland's ownership and provision of energy resources, no change in seaband repair plans, no change in energy efficiency continued in Iceland. In the future, - as is already true - the arrival of the Generals to get this changed. Which is - totally unchanged! That's when the ex-fiancists say. Minister, with President's permission, one question left. Then there is just one question. It is this: If an approved pack of three energy makes no difference what is the need for the Allied Parliament to accept it? If this agreement does not result in an Iceland linking Europe's energy market or leading to any of the factors involved? It's a simple question - which no one has asked. Calls for a simple answer that no one has given. Is it true that we Icelanders have to accept a power package, which has no effect on our energy issues because Liechtenstein and Norway are both members of Europe's energy market and say they need it? No one has yet to know. But if the approved energy package does not change the nation - why is it necessary to provide it? Is such and how inevitable for the Generals to spend their time in... Then comes the highest. ex - minister entered the situation when he wrote the article. Then there were bargains, which are part of the natural process. And he asks: "Why does the Generals have to spend their time on this when it doesn't matter to the Icelanders? "
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u133	Madam President. This is a fair question with a former minister, why would it be for the council to spend their time on matters of no importance, as many have suggested? It is quite surprising how much emphasis is placed on bringing this matter through with all available schemes. I think the views presented in the quoted article on the warnings and control of the energy resource are out of harmony with the claims that there is no effect on anything. I just remind you that after the order of the day was repeated. Secretary of State answered my question. Friday's discussion of how the matter affected the interests of the households, said the individual market, was the only thing highest. A minister stated that the surveillance role of the Power Agency would be enhanced, that would be a great interest in homes. It seemed to me that answer was a little thin. Is there anything to the claim that the matter has no effect, which explains why the senator is doing just as hard as the case is?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u134	V.E.G. President. Not really. With regard to former Ministers of Sighvatur Björgvinsson and others, I feel personally justified in taking note of what they left behind, having been here in the first place, as we have discussed. When men with this experience have participated in the induction of a energy package one and two, I feel that there's every reason to stop and listen. Much of the decisions made by all of us are based on counselling and/or information that we make because we cannot be expected to be experts in all matters that arise before the council. So I say again, when men with this experience, this background like Sighvatur Björgvinsson, Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, Tómas Ingi Olrich, Hirroffur Guttormsson, Ögmundur Jónasson and Davíð Oddsson, come forward and warn of this approval, I find it rude to not listen. I don't think it's fair for these fine gentlemen to consider what they have to say and then make their own decision. I'm not saying that, of course, a man like Sighvatur Björgvinsson didn't have to convince the person here. On the other hand, I feel that reason on the matter for those we are talking to. We are talking to the people of the country, who have many problems understanding this matter because they have been badly introduced. Why not promote opinions from people who know, know, and know? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u135	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I wondered, " Do I have any explanation? Or do I have a theory that this group of former Ministers, which is a very big one and has seen reasons to enter this matter, what caused these test balls and former politicians to turn around in support of the past phase to have doubts about the induction of the third energy package? ' So few, right now I just remember one, at least I let myself say very few, have turned in the other direction, changed from being a skeptics to supporting the entrance as it lies. Is there anything that can be connected to the experience that explains that the group is divided in a number of ways into these two groups, moving in different directions?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u136	V.E.G. President. As we have seen, this group is incompatible. At any rate, it is not the same political opinion, we can say, not on the same outlook even, but it is now shown to warn, and of course it is accepted. Why? I can imagine that it could be because of what is actually presented in this article, that you are afraid of an increase in electrical prices to the public. I thought that these fine gentlemen wouldn't be acting out because they're wearing a populian feeling, giving up in Polish a while ago, many of them and to this day. I believe that the progress of this group is primarily based on experience, based on experience in the increase of electricity prices based on sincere interest and genuine concern of an Icelandic nation. I simply think these good men feel it at first, as was shown by Sighvatur, that energy prices increase and also because of the risk that we gradually lose power over our resources. These are a little big words from a man of this place of sheep, which is sincere in Europe, etc., presenting opinions like these.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u137	Madam President. Thank you. Senator. I agree with what's been going on here, including... ... fromwhat. paritaprevir Of course, Bergþór the son of Ólason, is free to change their mind, and there is nothing to say. At the same time, there is no need to set off on those who are not on the same line, e.g. has been made clear by former politicians that the Middle Ages are upholding this powerful debate against this matter, while the people were at their time on the line that it was unwise but have changed their mind. But what really matters is why people have changed their mind. In view of their experience and previous employment, these are individuals in the society that we listen to at all times more than others. I would have thought it was a sign of strength to argue well why this energy package should be followed. We in the Middle East have not found the evidence that it is too far out there, and we have been in the market of the energy that provides us with a great quality of life and provides sound housing conditions all over the country because energy is cheap and it is clean. Since this is known by those interested in it, we must be careful about becoming members of the market. [[The president calls.]] This has been our case, and we're putting great emphasis on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u138	V.E.G. President. Winston Churchill once said that changing one's mind would be wise men's way of thinking, the stupid did not do it at all. It is quite possible and considered for some to change their mind in various matters, as we have seen, and there is nothing to deny it in one way or another. However, the case is here is a group of men with a lot of experience, some of whom have experienced the recording of the EEA Convention, i.e. on the basis of 1994, probably, and through a energy pack number one and two, and experience teaches these men to say, "Here and no farther." I tend to listen to men who have this background and experience, and in themselves, I have no subject to question their convictions. As we have seen, there is one person who has changed his mind on the other side for reasons I do not think he necessarily has a business with the public in the same way as the dealings of these fine men who have tried this for themselves. Maybe they've seen their faces. It's the syndrome we've been talking about, that acting politicians find it hard to realize that they're going wrong, let alone to admit it, and let alone - that's now five seconds left - paying attention and respecting it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u139	Madam President. Thank you. Senator. This is incorporated into the discussion because, as I mentioned earlier, it raises questions about why men who have been somewhat aggressive opposers change their mind. Then I mean those we listen to more than others in this matter, those who have been politicians, generals, and ministers. There must be an important argument behind changing my mind that I haven't found, Madam President. It may be that I was wrong, but I have not been aware that a significant point was that those who thought we should not go to this market because our circumstances are different, believe that now we should do so. There's something we need to get past the source. It matters in this discussion why they feel it is safe to take this journey now but not consider it at the time because there is quite another experience. You see, Madam President, we're here to learn from experience. And what is the experience of using an energy package one and two? Yes, it is because electrical prices were raised here to both homes and companies. We have proved this to be true. The consumer protection was spoken of. Necessary protection is of little importance because changing power dealers hardly respond to costs. There are a number of factors in the previous energy package one and two that recommend a careful approach to earth when it comes to a pack of three. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u140	V.E.G. President. This is exactly the point; you should listen to those who have experience; you must have the knowledge. As the proverb says, it is often good. Of course, we are to listen to these men who are now completely free of any interests of the case in one way or another, who are not running an offer, and who are not associated in any way with any of the interests that might overshadow what they have said, unless, as I said earlier, they are sincerely interested in the people's means of success, etc. and that people live in good terms. I think there's a point of view that you can agree with. There's a very strong point in the article "Sighvatur Björgvinsson's son, " which I just finished reading earlier. But he asks, "If this thing doesn't matter, if this package doesn't make any difference to the Icelandic people, why am I giving it up?" Such articles as these are now presented in the discussion will deepen the discussion and they will increase understanding, especially those far away and dependent on receiving information from others. Therefore, these articles need to be presented.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u141	To answer that question, what do you think? 4th, including Witchest. " Bergþór Ólason, holding his 27th discourse, still encouraging Presidential hope that a discussion will soon be concluded.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u142	Madam President. It's unclear how the wind unfolds. We'll see. I'm going to go on, as I abandoned my last talk, as I was dealing with an assignment that ESAs seem to apply to become head of the states of the EFTA Control Center. Then I'll continue with my speech. This process of obligatory action is as irreversibly possible. There is no way for public power users in Iceland, who are at the same time the owners of the continuum transfunctioners and activation warrants, to accept that these commercial policies of activation are introduced in Iceland without a date-date decision being taken into several political parties, much less at the General Parliament. This is exactly the point that me and the Middle Class have been critical here, that energy policy is not available, which, of course, should be readily available before the induction of a pack of three and four would be considered. This is the foretaste of what can be expected from the introduction of a pack of three in the country, although not directly involved in the case of ESA discharges. In Norway it was widely and undisputed to the conclusion that by turning the administrative warning on a three - pack energy package, it would be the Council to thoroughly integrate the Norwegian electricity system with the EU national electricity system and to submit to Norway's technical and commercial terms applicable to the common EU electricity and gas market, for example, for example. outlined in Regulation 713/2009 in energy pack three. However, the region is told that such a thing is taking place, and it is used by the former chairman of the Independence Party and the present influence of the responsor has called praiseworthy deception. There is a check in the shelter that no intermediate connection is still available to the Icelandic electronic energy system, and it commands legislation that prohibits the preparation of environmental marine cables without the approval of the General Assembly. These are portem tents and useless plans, because the European Court prefers to the Icelandic when a conflict occurs and may immediately occur after the introduction of a pack of three energy and the setting of these alleged defenses. The procedure is, of course, against the EU's own agreement, 7th par. It is not enough to get political declarations from the EU's existing energy performances and two EFTA complete faiths in the joint EEA Commission, since the stakeholders can sue the defect in the implementation of a three energy package that it is partly disabled by the AlCollium's ban on repairing a power cable to Iceland. Why do people believe that the Norwegian government has not yet issued a judicial hearing and a government stand against a three - pack energy package in a legal suit to contribute to the Council, as the government promised before the Council approved a three - pack of energy? In the context of the parts, I intend to stop here and continue with one part of my next talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u143	The president had planned to postpone the discussion on the subject. Wants what? Senators give an answer to the senator's speech? If not, the president must now grieve in his heart to postpone a discussion of the second part of the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u144	Borist has written a letter from Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir, the 6th. Smoke. No. Where she would like Álfheiður Ingadóttir to take her place at the General Assembly as an assistant for her, while the 1st substitute on a list has announced incursion. A letter has also been received by the acting council leader of the House of Proclamation, where it is requested that Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson take his place at the General Assembly as a guardian for the Egilsdóttir of Eglurs, the 4th. That's the north side. So today, on Monday, May 27, Álfheiður, Álfheiður Ingadóttir, and Þórarinn Ingi, Pétursson, are seated as guards. They have previously taken their seats at the General Assembly and are welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u145	The president proposes that a meeting meeting can last longer today than the Senate dictates. Let it be considered approved if no one says the same thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u146	To answer these questions, Prime Minister, Marine and Agriculture Minister, health minister, travel, industrial and innovation ministers as well as Ministers of Justice, Education and Culture Ministers, and Environmental and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u147	President. There is no lack of major news related to the third energy package. The fourth energy package has now been supplied in the European Union. That's why I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Is it not reasonable that we discuss this fourth energy package in conjunction with a discussion of the third, especially in view of the evidence given by the government for the induction of the third package that it is a normal continuation of the first and second energy packages and the previous aspects? In fact, it is surprising that the Council has not yet received a presentation of this fourth energy package while some members of the town, organization, or individuals have received such a presentation. More good news is being added. Yesterday, the British Sunday Times reported that British governments are under great pressure to accept their national connection with Iceland by means of a cable. It was reported that the project was filled with 25 investors and would produce hundreds of jobs in the northeastern England. This brings to mind some of the points discussed with the third energy package that can be referred to as Stefán the Már of Friðrik and Friurik's Peaceson Hirst, which, in view of a cable, has been passed by the president's permission: However, it must not be forgotten that the Energy Agency rejects a company's application where the company might turn to ESA, which could end up by a contract break-up against Iceland. Such a situation could be difficult in Iceland. It's not the highest. Prime Minister willing to agree with me that the importance of examining these and, in fact, others before continuing the third energy package?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u148	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð, Gunnlaugsson, for bringing this up here in the Lady Alllis. So I'll first talk about the fourth energy package, right now. A senator makes it a subject of talk, so the general Assembly of Iceland and the government has a process of action. A senator knows well from his long time at the General Assembly, in the manner of enforcing the EU types. So it is perfectly normal that the fourth energy package will follow the process we have agreed on, that it is taken into account both with the State Department and the Council Department of State and with the National Affairs Committee when it comes to the process, and that it is precisely explained if Iceland wants to make any warning of this fourth energy package in the joint EEA committee. I think we're gonna do what. Surely a senator would agree that this is a normal process. Then he tores his head off. A senator of only the ideas of the British company Atlantic Superconction, which we have, of course, heard, has for several years had the idea of putting here a sea cable. Hv. A senator, of course, is well aware of this, since the time he was prime minister, was a sea cable project manager, and then an exploratory discussion between Icelandic and British governments took place. Hv. A senator also points to the legal opinion available through the third energy package. All lawyers agree that no obligation will be derived from the energy package to allow sea cables to be restored between Iceland and other EEA countries. It is not that the regulations on this matter take effect here unless such a cable is laid and it is not laid unless it is elected by the Allied Assembly of the Icelanders. In fact, I heard one of those fighting the third energy package that the Allied Congress couldn't be trusted with such decisions, and then I'm sorry if those who fight the energy package feel that this institution is not trustworthy, democratically elected Congress. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u149	Mr. President. That answer worries me a lot. First of all, you ask the highest. Minister: Is the Allegorical Parliament trustworthy to stop the third energy package and prevent all its dangers? The highest attitude. The prime minister described here in reply is that it is only natural for one person to replace another, that we finish the third energy package and wait until the fourth step into a traditional process, in which case we may expect to arrive at the highest level. Ministers and explain to us that since we have introduced the third one, it is inevitable to introduce it. This is not a wise approach to people's fundamental interests. If people have wondered whether this could lead to some danger, yesterday this Sunday Times article should be designed to eliminate such doubts. And where it's the highest. According to a minister, all lawyers agreed that sea cables cannot be demanded, I only quote what I read earlier, which shows that the private people can appeal to contract violations, as if to form the ones mentioned in the Sunday Times. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u150	Mr. President. In that legal entity as well as any other. A senator points out that unless the decrees of a cable are decided to attack the sea cable, it will not go into effect. I trusted the General Assembly of the Icelanders very well to make decisions that would benefit the country and the nation. That is why it is very important for me to make a decision about such a thing only here. The story that was. There is no question that the Icelanders decided to allow the sea cable to be repaired. She expresses the interest of this company, as a matter of course. A senator well knows why, because it was instigated by what the Icelandic government was in charge. A senator, allowed an exploratory discussion on the repair of such a cord.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u151	That's not true.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u152	That's what they did. The original declaration of will was made, followed by a reconnaissance discussion on the fixation of such a sea cable, instigated by this particular company. [[Up front.]] There was nothing out of it, perhaps, because I don't think it's the right choice to lay a cable. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] As for the introduction to the EEA, I find it quite amazing that way. A senator is not familiar with the process that has been here for years.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u153	A respectable president. V.E.G. A health minister has long had the goal of setting up a more intensive outpatient service. An article in human life these days drew my attention, but it shows that the citizens of the urban population have called upon a cooperation on response services outside the hospital, where their insecurity regarding health care is complete in the event of serious medical events. An example is the case of a man who was far from injured. The indecision was complete, and it wasn't even an anaesthetic for him. The man was naturally filled with brandy, and that may be fine for someone, but not for all, so that he could be sedated. It was a loan that a doctor was there, yet he did not have access to a single thing or anything to care for that service. He sewed the person together with a needle and a black thread that I don't know how to tell any more about. It'll take more than an hour for an ambulance to come from Egls. This small village's failure was complete, and its inhabitants live in dissatisfaction. I had thought, but it's a misunderstanding that we were trying to build a community that would not be discriminated against by the health system. But it is clear that he is. I have repeatedly called for an explanation that an ambulance is not allowed in Ólafsundi. It seems now that ambulances are being taken from small places anywhere in the country, leaving residents in absolute uncertainty and insecurity. It is a desire to establish a complete out - of - hospital service, but it should take one or two years to get her on top of it. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if there is no reason to have a security device while waiting for the wonderful advice that has been offered.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u154	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. Just like what? A senator told me about the poor medical condition of the city's leftovers. It has been observed that the fireman at the Battle of the East calls for a response group in the entire city to find shelter within the medical system, the local people who are willing to save themselves, but who need support and authority to do so if the fireman's work is right in front of the east. According to the information I get at the Ministry when I especially ask for this matter, the National Health Service has gone back a great deal after a nurse living there moved away a few years ago. Today, there is a medical facility that a doctor regularly conducts. As shown in the indication, a small and long waiting period for an ambulance, such as in other remote locations in this country, is a short and long delay. Senator. It is now that civil fun is part of the HSA medical community and the director has met with the citizens of the city and recently announced a meeting with the local government. This meeting is scheduled for June 3rd. He has also had a meeting with firefighters from the Far East about the possible deliverance from the firefighter. His suggestions for solution in the days to come can be expected. I agree with what. A senator that exists in this place, and unfortunately, it appears regularly in remote places, cannot wait for a full conference. But it does not change the fact that policies are coming in hospital transport this year with the arrival of the chairman of the premeditation Board of Drugs, the medical care department in the Federal Union of Fire and Emergency Transporters, the supervisors of the Hospital in Akureyri, the Emergency Line of the Lands and the school principal of the Hospital. As soon as we're taking care of the whole policy, we're working to solve this situation on the left. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u155	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The health minister's response. It's just great if things start to end, and we just see a country where things like this don't happen again. Here, according to Jón Svanbergur Hjartarson, governor of the Landsholds, he repeatedly called upon the Ministry of Health to determine that there would be a policy for international care outside hospital services. It's certainly not as sad as it is when people experience themselves completely helplessly, deep into snow in winter, and they don't even have a chance to get an ambulance from Egls, as it were, in many other small places on our warm, beautiful land. Then it's completely in my mind, and it sounds like the highest. A health minister agrees, number one, number two, and three to prevent us from losing our lives just because there is no one there to do the necessary service to prevent such things from happening. Although it's always very fun to have brandy, it may not be quite cool.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u156	A respectable president. I think we're gonna do what. A senator would agree completely on this. It is repeated, and in fact, it is in the middle of a medical conference that is now in the middle of a second round. Here at the General Assembly, to ensure that in the country's equal access to health care regardless of the estate, two factors must be guaranteed. There is, on the other hand, a powerful telecommunicational health care and, although it is the best way, of course, of course, the best possible way. These are the challenges we face, but both of them - both distant health services and extramarital services - are high on my side. I think we have to get away from running between places and putting out fires, and we need to have a complete policy because we have an overall view of this important solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u157	Mr. President. It is evident, then, that liberal forces were key winners of the new European Parliament elections, and this is a cause for joy. However, it should not be forgotten that at the same time, ethnic polygamy was successful; groups that at times seem to have more on their agenda to divide Europe than to unite and at a time when our continent is being taken from different directions. It is clear that many people are interested in taking part in Europe. In the past 11 years, Chinese investments have increased in the European Union from 0.7 billion euro to 30 billion euro. Of this, the lot of the Chinese government in these investments increased tremendously, e.g. from 35% to 70% between 2016 and 2017. These large areas of Europe's Chinese government are part of a clear Chinese policy, a policy with the name Belti, and a course, and including one. to increase Chinese forces in Europe's interiors, so they just say it out loud. Today, the Icelandic government has said to consider the Chinese offer of a huge sum of money, a gift that involves a massive infrastructure in Iceland, and I ask the highest level. A prime minister learns about this relationship. It is certainly so newsed that it is the State Department that is considering this offer, but the case is simply so grown that although there are three foreign ministers, I would still direct my inquiry to Prime Minister, I feel that this case is the case. So I ask the highest. Prime Minister: Is the Icelandic government on our business in China to receive from them whatever it takes to build up the country far and wide? This has been confirmed by the Ministry of State, and I ask: What is the situation, and when is it necessary to inform the Council further?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u158	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son for this question. Now everyone knows that the Chinese government's interest in getting as many countries as possible in what they call Belti and breaking initiatives, I'm trying to translate it into Icelandic, belt and highway, we can call it. The main feature of this initiative is the development and investment of infrastructure and transport in Chinese countries. Indeed, Chinese governments have had discussions with most Western countries about participating in this assignment, belt, and highway, where some kind of investment has been emphasized. Hv. A senator mentioned that we have a gift of some kind. I don't want to feel that way, although it may be that the Chinese are interested in an investment in this country. The interest is not new, and we know of old examples of Chinese people wanting e.g. You have to invest in this country and other things. However, the Ministry of State has had this belt and made a contribution to the last issue and to what exactly the proposals made by the Chinese government have been to introduce Western countries, what that would mean for Icelandic interests. Of course, we have a free trade with China, and in many ways government communication has been increasing in recent years on research, innovation, and so forth. However, there is absolutely no such thing as accepting any gifts from the Chinese government, just to be clearly explained. However, it does, and it does not have to be surprising that the Chinese government has been searching for moderation through investments. There will be no decisions on the part of the Icelandic government without a discussion at the General Assembly. They don't lie on the table, so I'm completely honest with them at the moment. A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u159	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister is eager to know the answer. I'm a little calmer. The fact is, until recently, countries in the EU have not had a special common risk assessment of foreign investments on our inner market. This is our market, too. When I say a common risk assessment, I refer, not to traditional foreign investments, but to investments that focus on the infrastructure that nations see as a special security system, i.e. community foundations, including transportation and, especially, rejection of transport. The last autumn was set up in a common EU field to establish such a common risk assessment and is, in particular, driven by this growing interest in Chinese government's internal investment in the continent. I'd like to go to the end and ask if it's the highest. The prime minister may agree that Iceland's sovereignty is better paid by taking a full part in it with our European cousins and friends to ensure here as much as possible when the value of liberality, well - being and equality that we have been guided, rather than by seeking to be part of the Chinese family, no matter how many Marshall helps that application would result in, as it has been said during the discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u160	Mr. President. To me, an Icelandic community has no hope, and we don't need any help to run a prosperous community here. If we want to look at what matters to us in terms of our sovereignty, I'd like to say that it is my opinion that a man of transportation and infrastructure should be driven by public leaders and in public interest. That's my general opinion of that. No matter what foreigners are dealing with, this is not the case with government or public interest. The same thing I'd like to say, since I mentioned before what is so much discussed, in general, that I think it is very important that the Council take it for a special discussion during the next session. I'm expecting a report on the limitations common in the world's land around us. I think it is very important that the Council begin to take a clear view of the rules we would like to apply because there is also a big issue in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u161	Mr. President. Every Friday, that young generation reminds us that we are not alone on this planet. Iceland, however, is the only nation on this planet who decides to hunt on the second - largest mammal on earth. For the next five years, a ocean - fishing minister has set up a specific directive that allows for long - term fishing and other whales. The minister directly extended the warrant this year, but he has not yet granted his permission for long - suffering. That's why I want to ask the highest. A sea leader is now on his way to grant this permission because the license has now been applied and it has been reduced to the standard time of the season. Before this is done, wouldn't it also be advisable to take note of the surveys made by Iceland Labs and show that about half of the consumers in North America say they don't buy anything from a nation that hunts whales? Would it not also help to complete the treatment of unexplored lawsuits for the last catch before the return of fishing? Mr. President. Great fishing is morally wrong, in my opinion. They are unnecessary, economic and environmental unwise; they are harmful to the image of the nation and its economy. In fact, they are the sports fishing of one man on the land and therefore are not justified. Mr. President. They don't have to be shot.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u162	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. I now had a discussion about the whales a while ago at the council, but this is a smell of the same conversation. It is true that I issued a warrant for whale fishing based on the advice of the Marine Research Institute that valued them sustainable fishing. I can't even remember a number of animals underneath. They are more than 200 animals in large whales and are similar. It is a long - hoped - for experience. It has been a policy in Iceland to use these institutions as the advice provided by the home or recommend it. I stress that this fishing has been done under supervision. It is based on scientific counseling, meeting international commitments, and laws, so there is nothing against it. I've heard of their reputations as common. This is the case with a member of the body and his opinion that this is morally wrong. It's simply that I don't agree with that view. Senator. I don't think so. I have publicly said that I believe it is a greater decision to stop using such a stock than to continue the use of Iceland for years. You're right. A senator noted that there has been permission to hunt whales. It's being done in both the Ministry and the Fish Room. I don't know exactly where that case is right now, but I assume the treatment of such applications is properly directed by the Ministry and the Office on that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u163	Mr. President. With that answer, I must state a measure of disappointment. As I understand the highest. A minister is fully in favour of granting this fishing permit. All political decisions, of course, depend on interest, and I believe this is a wrong assessment. In Iceland, fishing at large whales should not be private with one minister or one company. There's not a lot of news that comes in Iceland, but it's news that does it, and it's not good. In particular, the minister may not recommend much against this decision and the fishing, but there are just a number of factors against it. They are economically questionable. They are morally questionable. We don't have to agree on morality, but it's putting other Iceland's interests at risk. That's why I wanted to call out a clearer position from the highest level. Ministers and perhaps other advisers, that we could take a clear stand against further killing on this second largest animal on earth. [[The president calls.]] Here we are simply, Mr. President, sacrificing more interests for mine, and that's too bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u164	A respectable president. This is where it claims to be. A senator claims that it is possible to grant this permission. Of course, it is possible, since there is a whale access and then these two decisions will be followed in accordance with the facts. Because of what they say. The senator that this is harmful for business interests and other factors, e.g. Iceland's reputation in foreign lands, has been evaluated by the State Department of State and even a local firm for any of these fishing views abroad. These tests have been done for nearly two decades. I'd probably be able to tell you what. A senator about it if I had it on my hand, but I read it a while ago. That diagnosis exists, and I allow myself to assert that it is not necessarily in harmony with the emphasis that humans have insisted on. A senator claims. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u165	A respectable president. Now, a third pack of energy has been on the council program for over a week and has long since become a rather long, tired conversation, as everyone knows, and everyone sees, and I think everyone will admit it. The discussion has almost completely been conducted on the grounds of one particular party at the General Assembly, and although I have held several talks on the subject, a few, made a few objections, it was thought that I myself would be participating in some form of language code that is not the case. Now it's been a week and a week more, and the giants and all the crooked moves. The members of the Central Party have made quite a few drifts and repeats. The bad news is, they're gone a lot of times in the community, and it's a little hard to deal with this for us who are simply...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u166	The president encourages you. A senator to direct a inquiry to the highest level. Prime Minister, as indicated by this part of the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u167	A respectable president. I'll get to that if I get to finish my business. I and others have had to stand up for this matter of government in general discussion and here at the council and what I was going to ask the highest. Whether it was time for the government to start defending this matter and to stop leaving it for the rest of us, who are not responsible and who have no special political or other interests because it has passed through this spring. We simply resent the lies and the giants that are allowed to wander here, and we react primarily because of that - is it our job to defend the government case? Isn't it about the government and the Ministers themselves to come here and defend their own business, writing articles? Though we may be able to criticize the urgency of our times. The members of the Central Party, our Energy, and such are still people in the city who face these gaps and believe them because they don't know better and cannot necessarily know better. They need to be respected. It is our job here to reason on matters, and while another team that we disagree with is not taking us responsibility to participate in the discussion as well. Will the government not accept any responsibility for sharing in this discussion?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u168	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson query. He asks me if members of the board are not going to participate in discussions about the third energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u169	And ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u170	And ministers. The Foreign Minister was here on Friday when the case was last discussed and was here on the afternoon to discuss the third energy pack at the point. Central Party senators. Hv. Of course, members of Congress and ministers of the administrations have discussed the matter from the past and from the rest of the districts. As mentioned in my case, I believe that the vast majority of the evidences of the matter have come up and that they have been answered. I don't think there's much longer to discuss this matter, but at the same time I say I respect the freedom of speech. Congress officials take advantage of the authority that is in the U.S. Congress to discuss matters that burn in them. I believe, however, that members of the council as well as members of other parties certainly promoted their cause. I can't quite figure it out. A senator believes that the members of the administration have not participated in this discussion. The last man who participated in this discussion except why. The members of the Central Party were the very best members. Secretary of state who was here all Friday afternoon. I can't quite figure out the question, if I'm going to be completely honest.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u171	A respectable president. What's always disappointing me in the politics is how politicians -- I'll just say, "I'm not just pointing my finger at somebody else -- often pretend it's not our responsibility to deal with it when other politicians do something. Sometimes it's our responsibility. And it's a good thing that this has finally taken place on Friday. That may be. But clearly, more is needed. This discussion is in the community, no matter how we feel about the discussion at the council. As I say, people in the community believe from their heart that they are walking on Iceland's independence and resources. Well, that's just nonsense. That's not true, but the people in the country must hear the answers to this language and must hear it often. We can't just give others the stage to repeat this nonsense without reacting ourselves. This is what I come to. We know exactly what culture is like at a church meeting with a so-called filamentist, that you shouldn't be involved. That's what I'm asking. Do we not need to participate in this discussion? [[The president calls.]] It's hardly a secret that the senators of the greater part avoid doing so for fear of delaying the matter any further.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u172	Mr. President. I agree with what. A member of the Parliament that a third energy pack does not include a release on Iceland's energy resources. It does not include a deed to Iceland's energy companies. That's the fact. She hasn't been affected yet. It does not require that a sea cable be placed here. It is the decision of the General if at any time I hope not. The third pack of energy does not involve any of this. Lawyers have agreed on what it involves. That's why you've been here many times in this one. I understand the anguish of them all. A senator explained that there are many wrong things on the air when discussing these matters. I agree with what. That's what a senator does. But this has also been done many times, not only by members of the council and ministers of the administrations, but also by members of other parties. Here are six groups at the council who want to complete this case and accept it. In addition, the seventh group that is opposed but is not involved in filibusters, since they consider it important for a democratic will to appear at the General Assembly. On the other hand, the eighth party has made good use of the rights he has to discuss the matter. In view of the growth in this case, I think that the democratic will of the council is manifested and expressed, and the democratic part is responsible for the decision he is prepared to support in a vote on the matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u173	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the highest. Environment and resource minister on the salmon farm and how his approach has been to this. The environmental policy of the left green says, with permission of the President: The market economy poses a threat to the global economy. Corruption has led to a movement of nature. So it's a little lower, with the permission of a president: ▪ Nature enjoys the doubt. What I would like to understand in this government community is how the process takes place when a bill is introduced that has been highly criticized by environmentalists and groups. The bill that is now in the processing of the Committee must have passed through the government, as normal. It was the highest. Environment Minister at that meeting? Did he suggest that something would be different? Did he want to bring it back, or did he just accept it? And why would he agree to it if he did? Or was it not his wish for some change? I'm just trying to figure out what power environmental minister is in this government when it comes to a prime project created by a marine dignitary and agri-gri-gritor. Is it, then, that's how a marine eco-efficiency minister puts in the bill, that bill is about fish farming and expands it, but he gets to do it the way he likes it? And since it is in the marine environment and agriculture business, the environment needs to be replaced when making this decision? It would be very interesting to hear about this. What has not been identified is that in the processing of the employment committees, there are various environmental issues that have well been presented in the processing of the case's executive, Kolbeinn Proppér Fearson, in the Left Green. There's a lot of things that come in there. But I'm worried if all this is actually done -- we know how this kind of surveillance works in Iceland, it sucks, it's not gonna work. At the same time, there are all kinds of countermoves, so many of them, like putting some kind of salmon counter into salmon years where you can see if the shell is made of fish farms, etc. for the ovulation and biodiversity of the environment. What's going on with the Environment Minister? What authority does he have in this regard? And what change has he had in his case?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u174	Mr. President. First, I'd like to thank the senator for the inquiry. Here's a question of my arrival as Minister, and my Ministry, for a bill of change in fish farms. I don't remember how long it was, but at least... in the case of the matter, a committee was originally arranged to offer specific suggestions that the bill was then processed. The Environmental and Resource Ministry had a representative on this committee, so it was the visit of the Ministry. Actually, it's for my time in the government. Then it came to the present ocean leader to submit the bill in the previous spring. That is where it came to both the government and then back now. During this time, we have had several conferences on this matter with a seafaring minister. I've made my point. Indeed, some changes were made in the drafts that existed then. Also, I've been very impressed to say what I think about these matters, which are just they that I think we need to develop fish farms in Iceland in that we can look at the next 10 to 15 15 years in which we develop fish farming, since there is a danger of accidents that could cause genetic contamination in our rivers with wild salmon submerged to the fact that we have a system where such things don't happen. But we need to give it time so that there will be a adjustment in this article. As far as I can see, the changes they're making right now are some of them a little bit in that direction. It adds motivation. Then, in the future, special consideration will be given to this issue when the law comes to a review if I correctly understand the opinion presented.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u175	President. Then I understand this fairly correct, a minister could present his comments, etc., but the work that had been done before in the Ministry, likely in consultation with the Department of Marine overseers, and in the marine outcasts, has yielded largely to the underlying foundation of that work. It's important for the left green, all the way to burgers, left green education and culture, which is right here in the city, and then the career in the country. If we watch polls, we can see that the civil population is being wiped out. Because of the work policy of the left green in the country, the environment is always sacrificed, and the civil population gets to pay for it. The number of members in the Northwestern district is being increased by about one, two in the capital area. [[The president calls.]] Since this is a progressive government, it is understandable in that respect. But this is something that the left - green environmental minister should take very good care of.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u176	The president reminds me that the kitchen day is not until Wednesday.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u177	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the political analysis. I'd like to make it clear that when it comes to council members in the government and then appear before the General, they are always responsible for the minister of that matter. Of course, there are some conversations before that happens, etc. and I have made my opinion known, both publicly and to the minister and to the government. Of course, it's just that you don't always get everything you want. That's what life is. But I'm clear on my position in this matter. Then we can talk about how things will follow later and maybe somewhere else than here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u178	President. It's my duty to come up here and pray. The president to explain to us why he repeatedly feels that it is a reason to stop Porta's members when they come up in Pontu to express themselves. Now he stopped what. paritaprevir Helga Hrafn Gunnarsson, who had finished giving one minute in a two - minute talk. What basis did the president have to decide? A senator would not be on his way with his unsubstantiated inquiry? The question was just to come out. I can't quite figure it out. Is it so uncomfortable that we get up in a pita that the president thinks it's a reason to stop in the middle of speeches? I'd like to hear an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u179	It has nothing to do with what members of Congress are involved. The president seeks to let members of Congress stick to the subject. In the case of the past unprepared queries and what to ask. Councilmen have asked the word to ask certain ministers questions, but they do not use most of their part or half of their speaking period in other categories of attack. To that sort of thing, the president makes comments. You should stick to the subject. If something is needed, there is a growing need to maintain it, for it is becoming increasingly common for people to talk about something that is very different from what is available according to the schedule below. Mr President is hoping that this will explain something.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u180	There is a difference in whether there is a general talk over the program, where there is a lot of room to cover in many areas or whether there is a very clear, speculative debate site in the Parliamentary world, such as unprepared inquiry. Then a certain senator will get the word to ask a certain minister a question. Then no other senators will reach, e.g. to answer or to carry a hand for their heads. It should then be defined more narrow. How normal is it for humans to go to focus spears at people who are far from learning about the discussion? This is an old rule of honor, not to be administered in an unnatural way to those who do not have the right to answer, and always have a good routine. It was sometimes spoken of here in the old days, although it is not nice to see the people who are dead in the discussion. This means that they do not have a public speaking rights. This need to be kept in mind when trying to keep discipline on such discussions and helping them to have a good rule at a meeting and to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u181	Mr. President. No other way to say that the amount of waste is in the case we've been talking about, the energy package. This must be considered a big news story, and it is recorded in the British newspaper Times - as one knows is a very respected paper - on the morning page, ml.is. It reports that the nominees of British investors leading a company called the International Atlantic Superconration, seek out British government officials that they provide for their authority to put an environ mental cable up to Iceland. The aim is to enable the British, as the Ml.is report says, to get electricity from Iceland through a cable. This company, Atlantic Superconration Corporation, has been reported to be the title of a British investor who aims to finance and place up a 1,000-mile-long sea cable to Iceland. Similarly, the report published on the British newspaper Times shows that the investor, the leading investor, has put a total of 2.5 billion pounds on the project, said to match less than 400 billion dollars. This leader, Truell, is quoted as saying that the American bank JP Morgan, known as the U.S. Big Bank, gave him advice and says that about 25 investors involved in the investments are potentially ready to participate in the project. How does this stand for the subject we have here? The conflicting opinion of Friðrik Árni Friðriksson's son Hirst and Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, is noted on page 20. 35, footnote 62, that markets, such as to make this company, do not gain the right approval of the energy package to demand that electronic connections be established or enlarged. But this adds the following authors, by permission of the president: However, do not forget that the Power Institute is rejecting a company's application where the company might turn to ESA with a charge that could end up in a contract violation against Iceland. Such a situation could be difficult in Iceland. Mr. President. We have recently experienced a contract break-in because of the import of meat. We see that the Supreme Court has just judged very large sums of money due to those who have attended their rights on the basis of contract violations and the execution of the sentence in the EFTA Court. Can you imagine the amount of money involved here? The question that needs to be answered is: Would a domestic legal agent be able to make up for the national commitment that we have already accepted by means of the introduction. Regulation No. 713/2009, as planned? In fact, the comment can be made, asking why, rather than a administrative decision, it will not be introduced by law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u182	President. This article, in Sunday class of British, has been published for years. A senator points in, it's pretty striking. True, it was known that this company would be interested in a connection. Good if I don't meet any of its representatives in my time at the Ministry of Presidency, actually through a different group of men. So I informed these men that there was no rich political will in Iceland for the sea cable repair and that we saw in it a number of flaws. However, it was not clear that these men would draw very rigidly from such a connection. In view of this and this latest news that highlights the degree of interest involved, you must wonder - and I would like to hear a question. The senator will - whether simply not to be expected, or at least it seems likely, that they would use all the resources they felt they had. Therefore, if we had introduced this third energy package, they would test whether the Icelanders were going to carry out the energy package's targets by contributing to cross-border connections and the linking of so-called isolated areas to the European electricity market. I feel it's face - to - face, and then you can only look at the tip we've been given, like a snake. A senator noted, that it might require damage and even a considerable amount of damage if we did not agree to eliminate obstacles to such a seastration, as the third energy package actually recommends.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u183	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think you have to believe that an enterprise that, if it were, would have the opportunity to get to 400 billion, or equal, of that amount, in order to lay a cable would be a relatively light game to achieve the legal cost of testing its position. It is only to see from the words of Stefán Már and Friðrik of the Árni that it is thought that the situation in such a matter would be quite guessable. It's just, you know, face to face. The National Institute of Energy, I'm reading here, by permission of the President, in which the sea cables of the company turn to ESA with a lawsuit that could end with a contract violation against Iceland to be taken. We know all about this situation. She has a recent experience in the meat business. What are some of the financial risks involved here? This case is so growing that we must examine a situation that is described much more closely, the possibility of a contract break-up to us in an enterprise's claim. You can't say it, I'll tell you, the case is fully informed until this point has been thoroughly reviewed.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u184	Mr. President. Many of the supporters of the case have tried to say that we are making mistakes, yet they do not explain what that involves. One thing that has been mentioned is that a cable is not on the drawing table or expected. Now we see that this is clearly not true. We see that there is a financialally powerful firm that forces the British government to equip for this. As a result, I find it obvious that such a business would put an end to treaties. Why, then, should we know that, to hand such a business a weapon into our hands? V.E.G. The prime minister answered a request about this matter earlier in that the Council would always have to agree with the sea cable layer, which is the focus of putting it into contact with a case that is difficult to deal with. In fact, a senator mentioned the so - called meat matter. What's the situation with that? Is it not for the General proposal that the Council accepts the requirements of the European Union, or ESA, in this matter, even though we have felt that we have an exception in this matter? Even so, the government will bring the matter up to the council and introduce it to the fact that we had been sentenced to so much damage that we just have to finish this. We just have to agree with ESA interpretation. Of course, what would be the situation with a cable, since the damages could be far higher than in the above - mentioned meats? Would it not be expected that if the same government sat, it would just come up and explain to us that we had been judged, and we just had to complete our cables?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u185	Mr. President. The cable is not just some idea. The cable's on the drawing table. It is supposed to be that way, says the Times, to provide energy through it on high tensions with the aim for the loss of transport by or less than 5%. This is shown in the paper. The report also shows that in order to finance this project, most of the investors are being searched for moderation amongst their investors. Who's being hired to do that? One of the world's greatest investment banks, JP Morgan. It is natural that a person should be careful and cautious in this matter. The question of the case is, what would be involved with the EFTA Court in a violation of agreement to say: Yes - no, we made a deal with ourselves in the Icelandic Constitution, the General Assembly, that no cable would be laid. Is that an answer likely to be appreciated in the light of the commitments we have made by having adopted Regulation 713 of Icelandic law? That's the question. And it is not to see that the legal advisers of the government feel that such objections would be accepted. This is seen in their words, with the permission of a president: a situation like this might be difficult for Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u186	Mr. President. If I had a dime every time those who recommend this case come and/or be somewhere else in public, saying, "There's nothing new in this matter, it's all come out, I'd have a handsome pension fund. You see, there is always new information in this matter. What is now discovered is that a sea cable is ready, filled with no tiny tox, but huge in international investments. If we keep in mind that here we've applied for windmill gardens a very powerful foreign company, I think it takes quite a bit of childishity not to get out four when you add these two and two together. That's why I have to say that since these are very important information in my opinion, they support what I and the middle class have been talking about all along, here are matters much longer than we've been told. Isn't it time, though, a while ago to put this matter aside, at least To fall, and consider it better, review the latest information that we receive almost every day? In itself, we had new points in our discussion all last week each day, points we were discussing. I'd like to ask you what. A senator will not see whether he sees a complete reason now that the government will meet this issue in the fall, withdraw it, and continue a discussion on many important matters to await.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u187	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I agree with him that there's a lot of stuff and a lot of reasons why the government will once again submit to this matter, at least Until the fall. If this particular case, the big case that we have now, is that the cable could be in sight - it's on the drawing table, an American Great Bank is now working on its funding and claims to have one 25 investors, and there's an important technical basis for handling matters in order to minimise the loss of energy on this long distance. Just this, too, in view of the suggestion given in the opinion of the two cultures that such a break-up case, as they put it, might be difficult for Iceland. They are almost saying, Mr. President, that men should expect to lose such a case. If this is not enough for the past week, during this discussion at the General Assembly, the fourth energy package was being replaced at the European Union scene. He's now ready, and he's got a name, called the winter package. And then there is a date that will be expected from a administrative court in Norway to address the potential conflict between the energy package and the Norwegian constitution. If that is not enough to postpone the matter, what? I'm going to let me turn it around and say, "It's totally irresponsible to intend to accept this matter in the light of all this uncertainty. [[The president calls.]] There's nothing that's going to happen to settle this situation right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u188	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. It has been strongly promoted by those who present this case that those who have spoken against the Senate arrangement in a materialistic, balanced manner over the past few days are here for an hour-and-a-day conversation with themselves. But nothing could be further removed, since at the World Council of Churches, there are a regular look at 6,000 to 8,000 people. I'm telling you, these last few days and nights, and last weekend, they've had quite a few more. Those who are here in the middle of this matter are not talking to one another, they are talking to you. They're talking to the people in the country. They are talking to the public, who is deeply concerned about this matter and who is opposed to it. I don't know exactly what to call it, Mr. President, when those who are objecting to this case put it on stress, despite all the new information being presented, despite the fact that more of the population is opposed, although this fall will be expected to be a case in Norway for the administrative court, which is about the recording of the third energy package in that country. That's why I must ask you why. A senator will see if that is the 23rd September. will be handled in a administrative court in Norway regarding the induction of the third energy package, where there is insufficient reason to pause and see what takes place and wait until the fall. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u189	Mr. President. The three points, the new report from London this morning: The disposal of the European Union's fourth energy package - complete as news is heard - news of the European Court's legal rights in Norway that will discuss the third energy package in connection with the Constitution in that country - in my mind this calls at least If you do not shout a postponement. You must wonder, " What would explain that such a push is followed by this matter is desirable and that it would be clearer than that? ' You can't see that there is a crucial moment in this case now in May of 2019. Ministers in the government tore up newspaper interviews in their own time when this case should be held at the General Assembly. At that time, one of them observed that it could be at the spring council of 2019, or the Fall Council of 2019. So I think that there really is good reason, and indeed just a lot more than all the occasion, Mr. President, it is, in fact, urgent that this case will be suspended. I have to say, I'm a little surprised that no senator sees a reason to discuss the matter in the light of this morning's new news. [[The president calls.]] I would've thought that there's good reason.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u190	President. In a conference board earlier, I told the president's decision was correct, to enter a comment. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson in unsubstantiated inquiries because the principle is not to discuss other members of the council who have reported matters, etc. That principle is sound. Then I spoke to the highest. The president of Steingrímur J. Sigfússon about it while sitting on the chair, and the principle is exactly what if you refer to an individual senator and not to a council. That didn't apply this time. He means that, however, there is room for it, but he will have to answer for it. Just so I corrected what I said: The principle is good, that you don't refer to other senators in particular unless you give them a chance to give them an answer. The principle has not been that way with members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u191	Mr. President. I'm going to discuss the next talk a little later with the highest words. The prime minister before that most people, if not all lawyers, recommended the way the government is going on in this case, that it is as if none of the counsellors and/or officials of the government have read what Attorney Eylelf the Ármannsson's son has left out on this subject. I'll probably be able to do that in the next talk. But in this talk, I especially wanted to review what we still know about the apparent importance of political matters. It seems that the government groups - I don't need to talk about the party parties, they're naturally upset and upfront, so there's no repentance there - there's no problem with this. This may have been evident in the fact that the Independence Party worked hard to settle the matter before a special celebration was made due to the 90 - year birthday of the party this weekend. We saw in their conversations what is going on near the Independence Party. And we'll see that even. That the head of the Independence Party sends birthday and holiday celebrations to his party in the News magazine. Who would have expected that to happen, Mr. President? At the same time, a Sunday newspaper or a weekend edition of the morning newspaper does not mention the 90th anniversary of the Independence Party any more than it did not exist. This means, Mr. President, it seems that the leading of the Independence Party and the Morning Press are now understood, and I don't know if many would have expected it. In all of this, it's very difficult, and it's so heavy to the extreme. The minister of finance went directly to see the pope in Rome, likely to find some comfort in the matter. But I'm also going to mention what has affected another government party, i.e. It's the one with the belt and bracelets, the one with the color pants, and the creamed wigs, and the new shoes, like a sledgehammer. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir put it so well. I like that description very much. The only thing that's missing, in my opinion, is a red clown's nose. Then the picture of the crew would be 100%. However, that group will not have the opportunity to have a central conference until the case is resolved and had their central meeting, which was to be held in May beyond a month's convention to be expected that the Ministers and leaders of the same party would not have to explain the matter to their followers, who are as opposed to the issue as the members of the Independence Party would object. And by doing so, the advanceers out of the table called a church event, which is now all right, but generally large damages have resulted in the failure of a convention of 150 - year - old phenomenon. It was, for example. In the wake of an economic collapse in Iceland, and now because the Agency is afraid to have a central meeting. These are the reasons why this happens. But why do I say that? The thing is, I'm not going to talk about left green just for now - that the governments know that their backyard is completely against this case. Absolutely. Therefore, they use all manner of means to avoid facing their voters, their backyard, because they don't dare. - And because there is now a good senator left-green I am about to review only the location of the event at my next speech. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u192	Mr. President. In view of the problem. A senator will make the post within the administrations, at least Two of them, to the subject of their speech and of the divorce that seems to have occurred between their members, and their supporters and their will, I wondered. A senator noted that last night the election ended in the Council of Europe. They were about a number of historical accounts, especially in Britain, where the British Real Company received the smallest follow-up he's ever received in elections from the beginning, or at least for 200 years, and the Labor Party probably as well, I think the Labour Party had about 14% and 8.7%, something like that, something that wouldn't have been impossible long ago. But their problem was that the members of the council had separated themselves from the supporters of these classes and their will. Why did this happen? Yes, because they were involved in the European Union and were unable to complete what Britain's voters had requested, i.e. British passage from the European Union. A man's wondering, and I'm asking him why. A senator whether he can see a similarity with these two, for here we have really received no explanation as to the position of the members of the statesmen for why they want to, by all means, introduce it. You cannot conclude that they are simply obeying the directives of the system, the European system.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u193	Mr. President. Yes, I expected, in fact, that members of the Independence Party would come to the discussion today because I don't believe that any party they met this weekend for coffee and cream food would certainly have spoken an ear to them about this matter. In fact, in the case of the United Kingdom's Instabilization Party, I think that it is possible for people to think about whether the same thing applies to the independent party at home, which is always down in surveys and is now losing one sponsor and a mouthpiece, it seems, i.e. Morning paper. I think the same thing happened in Iceland as in Britain, i.e. that the ruling political class does not listen to the common people. So I say again what I said before, because they're talking about us speaking here to each other, but we're more naturally talking to the people who are watching, 6,6,000,8,000 people on a good day, and we're gonna be there because we get so much encouragement and lots of greetings from the people who are here, and have been more crowded here on the council for the whole last week than the members of a hall that's out of itself. That is why you wonder: " What is it necessary for this political class in Iceland that doesn't listen to the public, doesn't listen to their backlands, doesn't listen to their voters; what does it take for them to do that? A good campaign may be needed, but I think it might be too late for this same political class. But I cry like a dry eye for it. [[The president calls.]] But, surely, such an event can recur here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u194	Mr. President. In view of this discussion, I would like to ask you why. A member of the body who has been uncomfortable with the discussion on the part of its supporters, and now the last one of them has already been in the past. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson asked the highest. Prime Minister questions earlier. It is this view that the common people who have doubts about this energy package are so ignorant and are deceived by some misinformation, cannot really think rationally, and thus some disintegration can deceive people. This view has appeared to me a bit often in politics, not just in Iceland, but in many countries, it is sufficient to refer to a discussion about Bgret in Britain, where those who lost that national fee have claimed that it has only happened because the common people, those who voted with a passage from the European Union, were so ignorant and were deceived by some error that this few misdemeaning of the public was unable to see through. Actually, I can see why. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson has put himself on the rosary, which is very good, it will be interesting to hear what he has even to say about it. But what struck me was to the highest. The prime minister was, in effect, to agree with this interpretation. Even so, there is no ultimate outcome. Prime Minister or any other member of the management team up here to correct what is claimed to be obvious errors and to be a failure to confuse the public. How may someone not trust to correct wrong records feel that he sees them? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u195	Mr. President. With very few exceptions, it was as long as those present participated in their conversation that they were without moisture, and it was mostly about what those who are holding the energy package are impossible for people, national polygamy. I don't know exactly what that means, but I'm told there's an expert on that subject in Iceland, I don't know where he's learned to do it, but he seems to be a very big analyst on who's here. In a fine report from 2016, he had suspected this. But then I understand that this responsibility has moved somewhere else. Men were all in it and talking down the 62% of nation against the energy package. It was a measure of superiority during the conversation, that it was best for those who had studied the energy package that was supplied to him. And one would ask, " If this is the case, why was it not harder for people to present the matter to the common people? ' The public in Iceland is well-lit, reasonable, and if the common people don't understand this or any of the complex issues that exist in a solution at the National Council, then the public is not to be accused but to those who are standing here and having talks about it. If we, and when I say anything, I mean politicians at all, I can't explain this matter to people so that they understand well, then it's not the public that we're to blame. Then we have not been able to do our job, and in this case, we've been doing it because we've been trying here day and night to explain the matter to the public and have had a pretty good reaction. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u196	President. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. I have made a list of some questions that I will now consider in my talk below. What I want to do. The senator remains to discuss political parties and, in particular, the political parties, who somehow seem to have taken the bait and isolated themselves from their followers or associates and voters. I'd like to ask the senator why in the news today is told about a British billionaire who wants the British, or British government, to give him permission to start a job as a team in Iceland and Iceland as some sort of electrical station for Britain. If I recall a television show, it wasn't quite before an Icelandic expert, probably some public angel who had a word on it and who was messing around at the General Assembly, linking them to Trump, reminds me, or Bannon, or something like that. Today, those who want to discuss serious matters can be associated with a number of things. But somehow I remind myself that this same fine individual is the agent of this British billionaire in Iceland, or this company, called Atlantic Superconration. Know what I'm sayin'? A senator saying that this company has special agents here who have even been members of the Independence Party?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u197	Mr. President. I've heard of it. And in itself, there is no secret about this, apparently, because the individual is registered on the website of this company as a contact and its agent in Iceland. We're in a hurry. There is another issue, then, why in many respects the media have failed their role in this matter. It is only necessary to review the recent discussions and to see what is newsworthy. It's newsworthy when it's time. One night, 3,20 people were talking about the President's conference board to see how things went down. And the most news is at what time the meeting began and when it ended. But what happened between us is not discussed. That's where the media fail their role. It is also true that the government medium, which costs only 4,000 million of the tax every year, will accept unafraid individuals associated with, e.g. This company, which is a producer of news shows. You must ask, doesn't anyone know better? I'd guess. Or do people deliberately call for contacts to discuss this big issue? This is so free of professionalism that half of it would be enough. Of course, we must be more demanding about the media than this, although it may not be quite fair, and especially the media in which the public pays himself, a state of carelessness. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u198	President. I thank the senator for the answer. It is noteworthy, of course, that the main subject on this big matter should be minutes and classes of speech, when men speak, and so on, not contained. Rather, it is the morning issue that has tried to analyze the matter in some way. The will has done so too. I don't remember anyone else who's been trying to put himself in the matter by some serious means. Whatever it is. A senator mentioned about this TV show that's exactly what I cut by, I got information about this connection, and it was a little special. But it's just that we're not running it, and we can't expect the media to stop competing with some kind of click and popularity. However, it can be expected of a mass medium, which receives 4,000 million a year from nonessential taxpayers today. But I'd like to ask the senator out of a pack of four energy. We saw it last week, I pointed out in my speeches this weekend that a pack of energy has been discovered, even though we know that it has been considered by city stakeholders, including the U.S.A. He has been referred to in Norway and mentioned in the comments of stakeholders. Isn't that a little special? Senator, not taking the overall picture of all this energy package on EU energy policy and wondering: Is this something that fits Iceland? Is this something we're going to record and make up for ourselves? The result? What does that mean? Now, at least with a pack of four energy, we don't know if they'll be five or six, or a god can know what, but energy policy is already in place as approved by the European Union today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u199	Mr. President. These two packets of energy that have already been introduced rolled through here, like one nice ex-wheat. A senator put it, without much discussion, and practically without any discussion in the community. Since then, some of the people who now stand for the opposition they should have known better. It may well be. But they have learned from this and have acted accordingly. I just agree with what. A senator, of course we are required to take this guard together; a package of energy one, two, three, four - the fifth one is now on the drawing table - and see how the connection is. When the person standing here began to participate in political politics, in 2013 at the World Council, I was amazed at how the 2008 government had developed a pack of energy number two and completely exceeded the wildest of European Dreams and their highest demand for this induction, which in turn crystals into the European Union as provided that the energy pack three will flow against the comment-and-thoughy but in the unsettled nation. However, there are some who shriveled and muffled their hips and ask only for a better investigation, a better examination, a better look, advised, and waited for the administrative decision in Norway, to wait for these obvious faults to be observed a little more carefully before running the case through. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u200	Mr. President. I'm going to review the position of this case with the European Union's third energy directive. What will be the scene if the third energy package is approved and this is where the cable will be laid? Where, then, are we? Will the so - called foreman have any meaning? The short answer is no. This will be the European Union's energy directive with all its advantages and weaknesses. With the third energy package and the superpower of the national energy agencies where the European Energy Agency writes a decision that the ESA, the European Economic Institute for Monitoring, appoints, and the two support systems of the EEA Treaty, despite the fact that we have always wanted to protect the agreement itself, the European Economic Area and the EFTA specialness of the Treaty. In this regard, legal advisers of the government have warned. In addition, there and there will be a maskless conflict between the Icelandic constitution as if it is a meaningless document, a question of having been walked close to the Constitution before, and it is acceptable that it is now done again, nor is there any evidence in this case. The Management Board's expectations that the Constitution should in time be changed indicate a show of mania, as it is obvious that neither the government nor the local Parliament have the authority to change the constitution according to the defined legal requirements of the Constitution itself. To argue that this constitution risk is something that can be delayed, only because it does not stand for sea cables right now, is an attitude that does not pass, and at least by making sound warnings that governments do not even have the authority to explain to the public or opposers of the induction. And that's serious, Mr. President. It is a serious matter if governments do not have the authority to explain to the public what these so - called warnings mean. As soon as national rights are lifted and the induction takes place - and it stands to do so at this council - there are few warnings about the authority of the international institutions, except for the warnings proclaimed by the executives. The induction could then lead to a company asking to put in this cable, and would be rejected by the U.S. government, turning to ESA on charges that could result in an illegal agreement against Iceland. And as the government's legal advisers say, it can make Iceland's situation difficult. This case might be difficult for Iceland. What, then, will happen to the Constitution problem in such a case? Is he getting up in the meantime, or is he going to have some kind of coma? No, of course not. It's getting trapped here in front of our eyes. The best thing to do is to make good use of the way in which we are protected, to be in the agreement itself, the European Economic Area Convention to which we are involved. There is a way of handling the case, for the joint EEA Commission, to explain our issues, and to look for a replacement, a reserve from the specific requirements of the EU third energy directive, an exception which seems to be, Mr. President, of the elaborate statements that the management bodies themselves have repeatedly referred to, have a profound understanding, both among high-ranking members of the European Union as well as in EFTA countries, Norway and Liechtenstein. I'm going to go to the next talk to get into it a little bit better and continue my discussion, which is very interesting, on the source responsibility of electricity.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u201	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. Understandably, he discussed various legal aspects of the case, potential conflicts with the Constitution and the legal warning that he has not least had to look for. What you are wondering is this: What is the situation we would be in, Icelanders, after the Power Institute had rejected the application of foreign parties, a foreign company such as Atlantic Superconration, as I think it is, which could then turn to the European Monitoring Agency with a lawsuit that could end up by a contract break against Iceland as they tore in the opinion of the Friðrik Árni and Stefán Már. What would be kept in the legal notice? What would Iceland's defenses be? It was during the day in the meat business that, despite the claim that there was complete speciality in Iceland regarding livestock diseases, human health, people's health, and animals - nothing was enough. Do you think that it will work in a violation of the contract to refer to some document that is the product of some of our deals with ourselves? This is what I want to ask you. A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u202	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The questions and speculations of the Ólafur of Ísleifsson. He asks us what our position would be in a deal violation, if I understood why. A senator correctly, pointing to our position on the unheated meat imports it. We thought that we were in the back and back, that we would never be allowed here to import meat, free meat, or eggs, and therefore there was no danger, and we were protected against these diseases in Europe. But there was another day. Today, we face millions of dollars or millions of dollars in this area when people have gone to court with the Icelandic State and the State has lost it. Now there is a very similar situation. Here people claim to be ensuing the third energy directive and to calm people, they present the matter, that it would be done only by legal warnings so that the safety is in place. Clearly, this calmed and calmed down members of the government. But then, Mr. President, they don't have it to explain to the people what these legal warnings mean. And what if we compare this with school? It's just a drop score. It's an introductory presentation of the case. We've been looking for these legal warnings - I'm not saying I'm going to die, but we've been looking for them repeatedly and asking for them. They do not have the authority to answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u203	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Legally, I no longer have a list of the claims or speculations that have been claimed in what it is. Since then, there is no such premonition. That was, in effect, the first answer, was shown in the case of the chairman of the Independence Party class, why. paritaprevir Ármannsson, son of a year, May 15th. And since then, they have followed one another in this way. I'm in there in the face that it seems to me that the legal defense, at least. In view of a industrial minister, there should be a comment in which the traditional method of initiating the text that a cable will be placed only with the approval of the U.S. government's approval of the Generals' approval, something like that. But apart from the fact that this is in a regulation rather than a law, for the first, but instead of how this is going to address the national commitment that we have made when we fail from a administrative notice, so unfortunate that it would be concluded by accepting this synonym, how little comment in a Regulation to influence the whole regulation that we remember to have the law to be European and regulations, to prevent it from having a full job, and hence we are in grave danger of losing such agreements as they seem to be expected fyrir Árni og Stefan? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u204	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his second question. There is a significant increase in the possibility that this legal committee should appear in the Regulation, it has been observed in some cases. I'm afraid the council members I can't refer to by name because I don't have any information about it, but it has been mentioned by some person in the Regulation. Order is, like, what's wrong. A senator came in, and it's fine that the audiences also get information about it, natural overlaps lower, considerably lower, than laws in Iceland. Orders are created in premeditated areas. It is written there on some desk, and then it enters the secretary's desk, which is signed. It's published. It has a value in Iceland, but it has a much lower value than any law that goes through the General, through three discussions, is accepted, and then goes to the signing of a president, will be published and published. There's a big difference between law and regulations. And if the legal defence is, if it is properly understood, in this Regulation that the Minister of Industrial Affairs may publish -- we've seen a plan on it -- it's the most embarrassing thing, I'll tell you, Mr. President. It is the most laughable thing to do if this is to be based on one of the European Economic Areas, with more than 400 million people, and it goes through the system over many years, a complex and a large system of legislation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u205	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech, and he would like to thank him for the fine and informative talks, good talks, and exactly what he has been doing on this legal notice. I want to thank him for simply explaining the depth of the regulations involved. This is a big and big deal to discuss that thinking that some premeditated directive can only solve the situation in Iceland and our future, when it comes to the European Union's energy and common energy market, is so limited, we shouldn't say it, to try to convince us that everything is safe in these areas, and we don't have to worry about it. I'd just like to mention one thing as a boy. A senator came in through the cable. Of course, by means of the cables, we are activated by the law that leads us to the loss of custody over these matters. This international organization, ACER, makes them take over, and we have very little to say about these important matters. But now, for example. Both land activation and the Landsnet were talking for cables and without the approval of our publicized companies. [[The president calls.]] Is it not obvious that the same is true when it comes to laying a cable?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u206	Mr. President. Yes, that's what we've been pointing to many times, and perhaps this point has become more pronounced today after news of the proposed will of a foreign company to completely finance the sea cable, according to the story. Then, with the permission of the president, I would like to consult here from the opinion of the legal advisers of the government, Stefánsson Pálmsson, and Friðrik's Árni, Hirst, multi-digited. They say, However, do not forget that the Power Institute is rejecting an application by a company in which the company might turn to ESA, which could end up by a contract break-up against Iceland. And they say, Such a situation could be difficult for Iceland. This is from the opinion of the legal advisers of the government itself. They are pointing out that an enterprise that would want to put a sea cable and be rejected, as the government has frequently proclaimed, that this does not exist, could go into a break-up. Where, then, are we? The stewards, the counselors, say: "We are in a difficult situation. As they said in the spa room, we're fucked. We're in deep shit, like we've got raw meat. Is it possible, Mr. President, to pull into the mud with open eyes?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u207	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator who agrees with him that it is very unusual for the government not to have learned from experience, and that it is natural for the so - called raw meat, or the cryo - related thing, if we can put it that way. There we make legal warnings, believe that we have absolutely guaranteed the need to import raw meat into the country that may threaten and threaten our clean livestock stocks, our clean agriculture, and even human health. The 2009 European Union's food law, followed by it, meant to remove all obstacles, just as it did in this case. This means we have to import agricultural products from the European Union whether it's raw meat or something else, eggs, etc. We thought that we had made sure that by setting this legal notice, we had a special law set that all meat would have to be frozen for 30 days before it arrived here. And then what happens during the day? Yeah, the bad guy, he didn't. So it takes ten years to get raw meat in 2019 this fall months. There's just a classic example that can't handle this way. This way, to have some sort of legal advance that we put ourselves without sharing with the EEA committee, either. And I must say, Mr. President, that I am very surprised that the government has not learned anything from the meat business so called. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u208	Mr. President. You're right about what you're doing. paritaprevir The lord of the Birgir of Þórarinsson, and I thank him for his questions. The warnings, as we have seen them, and as they have been explained to us so far, do not think. They don't think, as many have been observed, as the lawyers themselves say. The warnings they have now are at best optimistic, but rather naive. It's a Regulation, given by the highest authority. Tourism, industrial and resource ministers up here in the Southside of Reykjavík, signing - making more than a few EU regulations that have a legal value in the European Economic Areas are optimistic and offer the risk of contract violations on Iceland's world, just as with frozen meat. What, then, is our situation? Should we open our eyes in this way, so optimistic and naive, be forced to say, and invite the risk of losing a lot of money in some kind of contract break-up here in the near future, considering the latest news of the big company's planned to lay a sea cable? Will we? We say, "No, let's go to the EEA joint committee, and we'll ask for a release as if they've given us the green light that we're getting."
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u209	Mr. President. I want here in this speech to come into the media only on this matter. It has been briefly discussed here and noted that the media are not fulfilling its role adequately in such a large and important matter as the implementation of this energy package, the European Union Directive on the common energy market that we Iceland are about to become participants in the role of the implementation. We know that the role of the media is of utmost importance in democracies, and all agree that they are a basis for democratic discussion and provide government support. The media also obliges them to inform the public of various issues and to look deeper into relevant issues for society. There is no question that powerful media are important to the democracy of every state and not aggressive, as some say, that they are a fourth power. If the role of the media is to record events and interpret them, it is permitted. But the question is, Is it lawful for them to do so any way they want to do it? Of course, the answer is: No, they should always work professionally. I think it's safe to say that in recent years the importance of news media has increased, and we see another aspect of this matter, the false news that has had a significant impact, and we're very concerned. But if we deal with this, and the role of the media in that subject, I have to say, Mr. President, that the media in Iceland has not been successful enough in informing the public on the importance of this matter. However, I would like to state that I feel that the Morning Press has done quite well in this, so this may not apply to all the media, but it certainly has to be replaced. I think a lot of people in the community don't quite understand what's going on, and they'd think that since the coverage has been on the shoulders of the Middle Party, there's only one group that's worried about this. This, then, must be something you do not have to worry about because much more of the members of Congress are involved. The newspaper newsmagazine today finds a reporter whom I now have an excellent opinion, and I often think that they have written fine thistles, the media's language for the sake of prosecuting and calling him the private talk of members of the Central Party and that they have nothing new to offer. It is a great responsibility, Mr. President, of the press to make such a statement, especially in view of the fact that the controversial media has not published any information on this matter, i.e. what happens when the energy package is approved, how electrical prices will rise. So there are some questions that need to be answered, and then I would have thought the media should have published them and started studying the matter, as they say. [[The president calls.]] I see, Mr. President, time is up. I must continue with this talk next time and wish to be put on the rosary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u210	President. I thank the senator for his speech. I've listed 13 questions I'm not going to ask the senator about at least. These are questions, however, that I will try to get answers from talks today and tonight. I called attention to this for the weekend, last week, the media coverage of this case, i.e. how little has been taken into account in the seriousness of the case and the overall relationship, in fact, the overall picture. I agree with what. A senator that it is important to make that claim, I don't mind saying, that the media do more about the content of the case than the number of speakers, or how long a person talks and so forth, there is a secondary point in all of this, in fact, though the media always have a choice. The point is, not such facts. The contents include: on a question that may be a major question: Is there an increased power supply in a pack of four energy? Is it really so that a media that receives 4,000 million from taxpayers has no way of diving into such analysis, possibly buying legal assistance, investigating what that means if an energy package of four is introduced to a pack of three on our Constitution? This is one of many questions you can ask. And we must have more demands on State Radio than on the premedications that this institution receives. Of course, it's not that we run the media, we don't do it from here, but we have every right to express our opinion on the subject or how it is handled. It is hoped that the media, especially the private media, can be created by manpower, money, and energy to handle such large cases and analyze them. We see this happening in the media in many parts of the world that they have the power to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u211	Mr. President. I want to agree with that with what. Of course, a senator's requirement for a government publisher who receives a substantial sum of money is that he is deeply involved in such an important matter. It's only natural that it is done. One might ask himself: " How do they feel about this obligation? If they don't see a reason to get into a situation like this, I think the role of this government needs to be sharpened. Like what? A senator rightly mentioned the big issue of authority. This is exactly the ideal project for a media medium to investigate entirely into the basement. But it's not just that. There are some statements made by government officials. I mention, as an example, one statement that has repeatedly been made, i.e. that there is so much consumer protection in being in this common European market in electricity and that it has so much consumer protection in energy packs one, two and three. If so, the question is to be asked: What does that consumer protection involve? How have consumers benefited from this? Yes, if we take a closer look, it's almost no advantage to switch energy sales, as has repeatedly been chewed out here from the platform of government members that are attached to this, that changing energy sales is so important. It turns out that these are some pennies that the homes can save, so they don't take that road. [[The president calls.]] Of course, the media is going to dive into this as an example and then point out that this is of no use to consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u212	President. I thank the senator for the answer. Yes, it has also been said that energy prices have not fallen directly into what has been claimed. That has even been true. has been demonstrated. A senator did quite well with his own experience. It should therefore be an incentive for us to consider what will be related to some of these things. There's one thing we haven't been able to answer: What is the effect of a pack of four energy directly into a pack of three of electricity prices for homes and companies in Iceland? What effect does electricity prices have on vegetable farmers? Are we taking steps to make it more practical to stand in the import of goods that we don't know from where we come from while we have the best vegetables in the world, let me say, produced in Iceland? Hv. A senator comes from a district where a major component of vegetable and flowering is being performed. You must feel a lot worried about farmers about the incredible traffic in the government groups, that markets are even more electrical. And that left greens are involved, of course, in remarkable contrast, as their former senator, Ögmundur, Jónasson, has noted. But a question to the question. In view of his talk about the media, a senator may well have felt that the media specifically suggested a garden prayer that they are concerned that electricity prices will increase the course of a three - part energy package? And could it be that their concern is due to some kind of knowledge that they might have beyond our grasp of what is to come? Or is it simply the European Union's energy policy that is clear today and can be found online?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u213	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator and thank him for bringing up the importance of agriculture, and especially gardening, in this regard. There may be one medium that has pointed to the dangers associated with the introduction of a three - pack of energy for agriculture and gardening, which is the Bavour newspaper. A careful consideration of this subject has been given. But it has to be said at the moment that it's very strange, so I'll stick to the media, that the state radio and other media have not discussed any more about agriculture in this regard. He means so much to all of us. A lot of opportunity is available for agriculture, but all of them could go to courtyards like garden gardening if electric prices went out of control, which would make the gardening industry even fall off or not be viewed by sight in relation to what it is today. This is a real danger. We'll see that this happened with an energy package of one and two. This increased the electrical prices, and it is predictable that it will increase with a energy package of three, although a cable will not be laid. The monitoring fee for electronics is to be increased by 45%. It'll mean an increase, go straight into the prices. These people have said in their own reviews to the State Department that this will go right into the prices. Then there is another directive, No. 72/2009, inside this energy package. It stipulates that when it comes to building links to the wind plants, etc. - the cost will be huge - not the cost of the wind source, but the linked company. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It belongs to the public, and the cost is natural. [[The president calls.]] So the prices will go up, that's pretty clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u214	The president asks why. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u215	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For his excellent speech, the Birgir of Þórarinsson. He turned to a general talk, a news broadcast, a presentation to the public on this important and important subject. It is most exciting to say that the material content of the discussion has been reported in the past few days, despite the fact that this discussion was very varied, I allow to say. However, there is an ambitious account in the Morning Press in one of three or four pages, distributed over the paper, and should be thanked for it. It is noteworthy, as noted in these discussions, that the media suggested by the public between 4,500 and 5,000 million. K. This year, I don't have the will or ambition or ability - I don't know what of it - to discuss the subject materially, but it seems to be much more about the length of the discussion as well as something like that. Those at home, and there are many who are observing this discussion, who have been recorded here. I don't have time to mention but a few. There is a possible conflict with the constitution. The result of induction is the fact that the judgment of the most skilled involves that foreign institutions receive at least An indirect effect on national planning, use and provision of energy resources. It is a serious turn to the European Union on access to a resource, that we should provide access to a resource for access to markets, etc. [[The president calls.]] These are big cases, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u216	Mr. President. Yes, it's a big deal. It's right next door. Senator. That is why you would have felt that the media would have a careful examination of the consequences of this for homes and employment. Governments need e.g. showing that this has no effect, and that is where we have seen it. Councilmen have misdirected. It's a responsibility. I'll mention, for example, because we've been discussing it here, an increase in electrical prices that I think are important to you. In many ways this matter is complicated, it should be recognized, and it may not be easy for the civilian to put in the stitches on it. But one thing is clear, i.e. that the consequences of bringing in this energy package are an increase in electricity prices for homes and businesses in the country. We live in a land that is hard to live in, and in many ways, it can be difficult to live here and especially in winter when farms are heated, etc. Having access to less energy is a quality of life. Of course, if this quality of life is threatened in any way, if this country's housing conditions are threatened because we are under some European directive, a serious and serious test of whether this is possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u217	A respectable president. It is odd to see that some media that have had no material discussion on this matter, and certainly not to discuss what we have been offering the case, have, however, felt that it was possible for them to bring a heavy judgment against those here who have sought to shed light on the matter and to disqualify it. I mentioned some major stuff. I mentioned the potential conflict with constitution, the fact that foreign people are allowed to take part in the organization, provision and use of Icelandic energy resources. It is among those that have discussed. We've also discussed that now the fourth energy pack is on the table, and third energy package has to be discussed with what is to come. It is going to make a decision, or at least will be reported on by the Norwegian Court in September. From there may be some important news that is of great importance to us in Iceland. And today's report is that a foreign resident, a British investor, evidently has a plan to land a sea cable here and has taken position to finance their plans, including. By means of the U.S. big bank JP Morgans, many of whom are familiar. All of this is more important. The fine members of other classes, most of them, are not allowed to participate, and the media do not seem to want or trust themselves to discuss this material with the exception this morning. [[The president calls.]] I hope there's a continuation of that coverage.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u218	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator who shares his heart with him. This morning, that big story appeared in this case, like a what? A senator came in, saying that a British rich man says that all funding is guaranteed, that nothing more is needed than permission to lay the cable. This was one of the biggest news that ever came into the discussion, as well as the reason why government officials came into the discussion. I mentioned my speech to a reporter from the magazine I have appreciated. She says that the Middle Class has nothing new to offer. This is a new story that will appear this morning, and it can simply use the whole discussion. It has always been said in this context that the cable is nothing on the way, that we don't have to worry about this, that it doesn't matter, because there's nothing to be realized about it. However, when news reports show that the media are all ready this morning, everything else is revealed in the media. We know that the administrative body can bring this issue into force in the greater part without a careful discussion of the matter, so I think it will now be relatively easy for the government and the same members to disqualify these laws that forbid sea cables. I have to say, Mr. President, that I am deeply concerned that the government will not even come up here and discuss this new news that has been received from this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u219	Mr. President. I believe that there is good reason to review this remarkable story published in the British Sunday Times, by no means, yesterday and by plan on the transpiration of Iceland and Britain. In view of the media coverage of these issues, it is a pleasure to see that at least The will and the Morning newspaper and now the last evidence has made the story okay. I haven't seen a news story on The State Radio. It may have appeared somewhere. Perhaps the Agency will have a discussion about this wait until the next show called on Friday night so that the West Side group can ridicule this, such as other important issues in the community. But it is important that, although something about this has been presented in the media, we make this clear in our discussions here at the council. I would very much like to have some of the spokesmen respond to what this article says. But there is a lot of interesting in this Sunday Times story that tells of an investor named Edi Truell, who is pressing on the British government to allow communication with Iceland. In fact, that pressure is not starting right now. He is, however, growing from what was. Furthermore, Greg Clark, Britain's client, is under pressure from these sources, pressure to authorize this connection. It says that all funding is in place and only the approval of the British government needs to continue. It's interesting, Mr. President, that only the approval of the British government needs to be replaced by obstacles. It has been reported that hundreds of new jobs are being made in the northeastern part of England, if these plans arise, and that Minister Greg Clark will only have to agree and then these jobs will be performed. In fact, these investors intend to produce the cable, the sea cable, in the same part of the country, in the northeastern England, and this will immediately include a number of jobs and so increase the number of such as contact or contact with Iceland. Although I have no objection to people in the northeastern part of England, as well as to hope that the British government's plans to promote employment in northern England would rather be used for industry in the northeastern part of Iceland than northeastern England, and of course, Mr. President, throughout the country. The Sunday Times reports that this company needs the definition that it is selling national energy to sell that energy on the supplied prices, i.e. that the British government, if they specify such a definition, will pay off the price of energy. As the article will show, this will not change the increase in energy prices in Britain because of the demand that energy dealers use or offer a certain proportion of renewable energy. There are only 25 investors who will be prepared to participate in this project, led by the JP Morgans Investment Bank, ready to contribute a factor of 2.5 billion steas. But this Truell, who leads the group, will be a former adviser for Boris Johnsons, who may be the next prime minister of Britain. Mr. President. I'm just starting this tour, so I'm asking the President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u220	President. I thank the senator for his speech. Now a change of time has been discussed and prophesied. In 2015 or about to be examined, and reports on electrical prices were made, how they would change in Iceland. I've heard of it quite a bit. paritaprevir Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, has been totally opposed to this cord, at least since then if not before. So I'd like to ask you why. A member of Parliament whether the recent information related to the third energy package has changed on the senator's opinion of a possible sea cable and particularly on how Iceland's energy will be best used. Second, I ponder over the report that there is an increased pressure on simply starting a project that aims to put sea cables in Iceland, and there are investors who must be able to go on this giant project that has already declared themselves willing to set financial support for this project, and the person who talks about the report is prepared to conduct and perform similar tasks. Then, of course, the question arises: Must we not be able to answer the question of the question at the same time? Could it be that in spite of these beautiful statements by members of the Parliament, those who want to generate a pack of three might, for example. This fine man, Edi Truell, possibly appealed to the Icelandic government, does this stand in the way that he himself at his expense lays a string here to produce energy with cigars on Langaneis? Has a what? A senator is told if there is any guarantee that the United States will not lose tens of millions of dollars?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u221	Madam President. That's right, as a matter of course. A senator says, I've had doubts about the sea cables for a long time. Some have tried to carry out such advantages, but they have usually done so, I have heard, on the grounds that this would be done on Icelandic terms instead of the European Union. However, I have repeatedly identified the flaws and risks associated with a seastration and I think it is safe to tell about it, at a meeting with the representatives of this company, as discussed in Article Sunday Times, and at a meeting with Prime Minister of Britain, David Cameron, where I agreed that the effect of sea cables would be examined, while indicating that this would be determined to show that it was not suitable for Icelanders. Hence, it has really been hilarious when some members of the Independence Party have been least pointing out that I met David Cameron and talked to him about sea cables and try to excuse my actions in the third energy package with reference to that. However, in terms of this investment and its possible effects, if we introduced the third energy package and intended to prevent it from attacking this project, it will be sufficient to look to Cyprus, for example. It's to connect Cyprus with a sea cable to the common European electrical system. This is done under the guidance of this European Common Energy Agency, which observes that governments in these Member States are not involved, do not place obstacles on this project. In view of the fact that this person is apparently willing to exert considerable pressure on British governments to get their permission on the side, we can imagine whether he would not take advantage of the weapons that the Iceland government is going to deliver to him with the approved third energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u222	President. The contents of the third energy package are not enough to be used for a lawsuit against the Icelandic government, whether due to treaties or anyone else - it may be wrong induction or obstacle or mischange, or whatever one comes into mind. Also, it should not be forgotten that the so-called energy package four, the fourth energy package, may call for an even more chance for the investor to file a case against the Icelandic state to introduce this package through the same system as it seems to be intended here, i.e. with some illusions and without actually digging deep into what effect it may have. It was reminded here in debates today that, in a footnote in the opinion of Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, and Friðrik Friðriksson Hirst, it is pointed out, and specifically stated that although other countries will accept what Iceland is trying to avoid, or this warning so-called, it does not bind in any way a private or legal person who can still appeal to the Icelandic state. Then it's not true. A senator, to expect the overall picture to be examined, the overall risk being estimated by the experts to specifically assess whether the fourth energy package has some kind of correlation effect, so to speak, or to add the importance of carefully examining a pack of three because the connection is clearly related. Also, you might ask why. A senator whether it was ever discussed with political leaders found that this matter is important in some sense the word for land and nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u223	Madam President. I think I have to agree with dinner. The senator's opinion that there are very many indications that it is absolutely necessary to consider this whole matter, i.e. The third and fourth energy package, as well as what may happen in the future, and aims to happen at the present time in connection with the transposphere connection. Especially is this important in view of the fact that Iceland has already introduced the first and second energy package as special evidence that we need to introduce the third. We can just imagine how the situation will be when the fourth one of our shores is hit, whether the European Union will not refer to the government case for the third energy package, saying that the same is true of the fourth. It is a direct continuation of the third energy package while the third was indirectly a continuation of the first and another, called electrical directives, and not later energy packages. For such a discussion among the prefects of this matter, they have not been, at least not that I can, not that I have been there, which is remarkable in the nature of this matter and in the eyes of the fact that the government seems to put much emphasis on putting the matter through the council. But after the second time, no matter what new information is revealed, whether here in Iceland or in foreign large newspapers, the officials do not seem to be interested in discussing this matter over their heads. There is no board of directors in this room, not even in side rooms, and I allow myself to doubt that they are following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u224	Madam President. I thank the senator for the talk and would like to ask him about the claims presented here, not actually from the platform, but they have used a variety of parallel methods to establish that there is nothing new in this case, it is quite clear. This has been claimed by the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, why. paritaprevir Astounding Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir's daughter, a roll-off with each rock, answer all the questions, etc. Now it's as if we're getting some news this morning that a couple of Britain's economists have a full-priced cable here in Iceland, and he's looking for permission from the British authorities to lay this cord. Personally, I would've wanted the head of the State Department to come down here to tell us if she knew about this before, because everything's done in the case, if there's no news for her, because it's definitely news for us, and if she thought this was not gonna change since we're making the inevitable energy package, as if it were going to look right now. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he is on the verge of a call. The head of the State Department is in here, and if it wasn't right for us to get more news of this cable, so you put it this way, before you go any further. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u225	Madam President. Before answering that question, I'll draw attention to it. A member of the council says that this Sunday Times article shows that the only barrier to such plans is to approval or confirmation by British government. They may therefore think that in view of the proposed induction of the third energy package in this country, there will be no barriers here, since the energy package's aim can be referred to to to as a means to eliminate barriers from cross-country. But in the matter of the question of the coming of what? The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee feels that this is not the case. The Chairman must come and answer the latest information, whether it's the fourth energy package or this proposed navigating. Should be a slow home run for what happened. A senator getting information about this. In common with this company's spokesman here, she is to be a candidate for the so - called treaties of the Kingdom radio as their contribution to this discussion has been merely ridicule or evil names. At any rate, though, there is a thread that is likely to be used for what is right. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee to collect information on this subject and, including, answer the question about how far this is from the government of the United States. Because this story is all you can read but that it doesn't seem to be an obstacle on this side. Only the British government is waiting for confirmation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u226	President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. If something is, it will make me even more nervous, and I am closer to saying that it would be appropriate to stop this discussion until we can find a reason. paritaprevir Insolent Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, president of the State Department, to come here and report her knowledge of this matter. As far as I can tell, this is the most important information that has to be answered. A senator says that this is not the case, it's with Britain's government. I think we must be able to demand that the head of the State Department come here and explain this to us. We tried our time a few days ago, this kind of thing just kind of comes together, to have a place to say to the Guðlaugur of Þórðarson, the highest. The minister of foreign affairs, and the truth surprised me by how little he seemed to know about these matters over his head. I got the feeling after having had a word with him--he had, for example. I did not examine the comments of the Eyjólfur Ármannsson, who is, in my opinion, a very important point into this discussion. In view of all of this, I cannot avoid the thought of taking a break in the discussion until next time. Chairman of the State Department. I'm asking why. A senator may be interested in the fact that he is involved, so that we can learn more about this and also explain what information has been received here, not at the General Assembly, but perhaps to the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee on just the fourth energy package ready and what effect he might have on the third package approved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u227	Madam President. I can't help but wait to the highest. It's part of the president's mind. The head of the State Department will attend our discussion and explain this to us. It may be enough to do so in a talk, or we may even become one. to address this in particular in a discussion about the President's conference board, for it can't be that the management team simply plans to ignore these new core facts on the case, on the one hand, the fourth energy package, has just been handed over, has not been discussed here, no introductions have been carried over by the Icelandic government on him, and then these new reports of the proposed sealine fight to Iceland. Of course, this is not a complete list of things we have been discovering, so to speak, during these discussions. A long list of factors that have first been discovered after the second. on the matter began, especially after the executives dropped out of the discussion, which, of course, is very peculiar, especially in view of the fact that these same people, many of whom, claim that this is a false case of some sort, are being misled by the common people. If that is the case, these people must be prepared to come up here like one speech per person, perhaps to find out what this misleading statement is all about. I'm a little afraid that men will fear that discussion, afraid to be pointed out that, unfortunately, our concerns are based on evidence. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u228	The president wants to inform us that messages have been submitted. Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u229	President. I will discuss just a few questions and speculations, 17 or 18 of them, that I have listed. They may be more, and then they will be added. First, I'd like to say that it is quite clear that in the news today, we see that preparation is in place to produce and put an electrical cable to Iceland to see if it will be tomorrow or after five years, seven years or what it will be, then the preparation is clearly going on and it is clear that internationally pressure is being put on to reality. At the same time, we know that in the opinion of the Stefán Már and Friðrik of the Árni, it is a warning that the private legislatures, lawyers, in spite of the proposals made by the government's share, may well appeal to the United States. That, in fact, is what the Bible says. by means of an electronic connection, by permission of the President: However, don't forget to reject the Power Institute for a company's application to a certain company in the news today, Atlantic Superconction, which actually has some spokesman or agency in Iceland, as also shown today -- ◯ There the company could turn itself to ESA with a lawsuit that could end with a contract break-up against Iceland. Such a situation could be difficult in Iceland. We're talking about and in front of us that a company in Britain is really pressing for this to become a reality. So the administrative part is going to say, and his followers, all of them, that there's no danger, and it's all right just to install a pack of energy, the defence is so good, and that there's a long way to sea cable, no one's thinking about it, and that we don't have to worry about it? This is truly remarkable. I'm gonna allow me to associate this with some of the questions I have about the induction now and also with a pack of energy, which I pointed to last week - I suppose it was the 24th or 25th of May that it appeared on the European web site that at last -- at last it was not the word that was used but that this was the end of the process and a pack of energy four, the so called winter package, had become reality. In fact, they call it a 'Clean energy for all of Europetans to be, by the permission of a president, i.e. Pure energy for all Europeans, sweet and beautiful name. Me and the Icelanders have plenty of pure energy. However, that those who are a follower of the case should not want to see the overall picture, do not want to see how a pack of energy has a further pack of three, although only from today's news reports about the translucency and possible lawsuits, even though it would only be possible to understand the meaning of these increased sources of power for the ACER agency. What do they mean in a pack of four energy? How does the ESA's interpretation of the contract affect companies, such as Atlantic SuperConnection, the business of the Icelandic state? I also ask: Has it been requested that the experts who wrote a report for a pack of energy consider a four - pack of energy? Why not do so when there is a pressure in front of us, when what is to be done? It's such an irresponsible, respectable president that you wouldn't have believed it here. If it is so that this new phenomenon of energy package four is taking greater power to a foreign agency - what are they? How will they be interpreted? Where will they be helped or where will they be placed and implemented in Iceland, if needed? Will the four energy package call for another controlled warning? That people, those who want to drive this through, would need to do the same exercise to get them out of the EU or to other EU regulations? Then you wonder: " If there's something in which you insist on setting a controlled command, why is there a need to be added here at the council, if that's what it is? This must be because there is some continued doubt about the constitution in that package. A respectable president. I wish to be reassigned to the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u230	Madam President. I'm going to continue with the new news that appeared in Sunday Times yesterday discussing this investor, which in the account appears to be a massive businessman, has gotten rich. to buy out the pension rights, to ask me which one. A senator, in view of the apparent presence of the British government pressure: Is there any chance that such an individual - and now I'm not putting away the toughness of business, of course they may be as long as they abide by the rules - would not be using the tools that Iceland's government seems to be moving him into the hands with the third energy package? Would it not, if he was present with some obstacles, refer to this induction and its aim to connect Europe's electrical energy systems with special emphasis on isolated areas such as islands, with special emphasis on environmental energy? I feel that such an individual would take full advantage of it. But more odd is the fact that the Icelandic government does not guard against such induction, not even be ready to examine the effects before they are going to call their members into the room to press the green button. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed with me on this evaluation, that it is, in fact, predictable how this example would develop after the third package was introduced?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u231	President. Based on the interests and expectations these investors seem to have and on the fact that they have already accomplished their work, there is no doubt in my mind that they will seek their rights, just as some small retail halls in Iceland have sought their right to import unheated meat, which, of course, is in my mind, with the possibility of being in this facility that Iceland has as an agricultural land. I'm going to say, without having read very much about this investment, that I understand that man's ambition to go into this area where it is quite clear that fusion or whatever to call it, this joint energy market created by the European Union will likely be very lucrative in the future, especially for those who will control some environmental renewable energy. I think that's pretty clear. As a result, a person has a measure of respect for the fact that man is so visionary, but I don't feel that there's any way I can help it to make his dream come true. I'm really afraid of that, huh? A senator, that what we are doing now with a pack of three of energy and possibly four, is just taking the step toward helping. Let us assume that the British government grants this fine company permission. We know this company has an agency in Iceland who works for it. How do people think that the pressure on the Icelandic government will then be to allow cable, allow cables, at least not to interfere? And who says that there won't be anything else that will happen to the spades, other contracts that Iceland has to deal with the British government?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u232	Madam President. At the end of his reply, there was a why. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson into what I was going to ask him next: What additional pressure will be expected after the third energy package is introduced in the light of experience, and especially with regard to no greater issue from the European Union's perspective than this so - called meat matter. There, the Icelandic government responded by presenting a bill waiting for payment at the council, which allows us to accept simply the interpretation of the ESA and the European Union, despite the fact that we believe we have had an exception in these matters. But then the government here brings a bill, pointing out that the Icelandic state has been judged to be guilty of sky high guilt, as it were. A senator mentioned, one of the generals, who made it a matter of himself to seek compensation for the violation of the contract. How can you tell? A senator would have the discussion if we had been sentenced, the State, to pay fines due to violations of energy agreements, due to contract breakes in the country's connection with an economistic cable because of the third energy package? And the energy situation, Madam President, is a far greater priority for the European Union than the privilege of transporting more unheated meat to Iceland. So we can just imagine what the pressure would be and how Icelandic governments, who would not dare to stand in the way of the induction today, would react. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u233	President. This is of interest in this whole context, if you look at the overall context, that it wasn't the European Union, the French State, or any one who wanted to import meat into Iceland, but it was the general public hall that went to that expedition and won that case of ill health. What we're doing about energy, however, is that we're enforcing the goals, the ides, we're initiating policy, implementing the rules. We're actually taking the big step that's pushing my brains and creating a foundation or can create a foundation for Iceland's lawsuits if this isn't done as required, let's say by law and private authorities. What if the declarations of the representatives of the European Union and other countries that come to this date have any significance, I think that there is more than political value, not a legal value, then it is quite clear that the comparison of figures is a guilt or some sort of relief problem - I allow it to say that he is astrogenic. Let me just say that he is such that you can't think of how it would end. The values that are underneath are such, and the value of such a person is. As a result, President, in itself, there is no other choice than to consider this matter even more carefully based on the big context, on the big risk we're taking, and especially on the table that a new energy package is ready and ready. It will be said, as it is, that it is sad not to hear or not to know whether those who are involved have any concern about a pack of four or no energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u234	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. There were a few things that came to mind when I listened to it. A senator. The feeling that may have come first was to scare people about national relationships, especially smaller countries with the European Union and the regular work there. Now we're looking ahead to the problem of unheated meat, as is known since Icelandic political and government officials considered themselves to have a warning in some way. Now we'll see how it says: 3 billion plus some small amount in previous stages of damage, if I recall correctly. It's already been convicted of damage if I'm not mistaken for $3 billion of meat import. It is reasonable to assume that such enormous interests as those in the energy market could lead to the amount that we have not only met before in these topics except in the multi-counted Icesave language possible. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson whether he shares the opinion and experience with me that what is perhaps the most difficult to push aside is the feeling of being disturbed by smaller countries with the European Union and that the European Union's main objective to form in energy markets now is likely to shock our views of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u235	President. Of course, no one has ever been given to or given out of the EU energy policy, so I think it is quite clear that the poor evidence that the European Union has so far considered that we were living on this matter will not apply to changing the EU energy policy or prevents them from and within the region from taking their case quite seriously. What I think is important is to take this matter and say: It's new. We have already seen that this is a relatively rapid development. There is also the situation where a business has financed such a string. We are simply taking a closer look at the legal impact this may have on Iceland's position, the current route will be followed, along with the future effects of the energy package that has now become, what the overall effect will be. I don't think there's any way to end this case in the way we should do it today, knowing what we know today, and yet what we know is limited because we haven't yet received the deeper insight needed into the fourth energy package, i.e. what evolution becomes. What is the ultimate purpose? Will continued promotion of power take place? Will continued development, let us put it this way, toward the state that the European economy will have to yield to its influence? And then the other, what is the opinion of our fellow workers, e.g. in EFTA with the fourth energy package? Has it been checked?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u236	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. There is no doubt about it, I am afraid, that otherwise the European Union's interest and energy policy will always cremate the views that may arise from a small market like in Iceland. It is strange to see such remarkable details and huge inputs in such things as that the European Parliament's Council of Ministers finishes the energy package, all the energy package regulations, in no way meets the third energy package. I have claimed that there are many things that indicate that the members of the government party find it rather uncomfortable, as this is evident in their presence in the area and participation in the discussion. They've been bitten by the fact that evil is the best thing to do, and now they're going to put their heads in, drive the case through, and get into votes, and hope that they don't have to think about the things that are likely to happen again. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether this complete apathy to new information is common in as much and as extensive as this one. What would be a primary way of convincing the members of the administration board that it would be worth taking one stop to what the Council of Ministers at the European Parliament was sending away? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u237	President. I thank you for your speculation and for that answer. I have to say, Mr. President, I think it's very interesting that people face this issue and the questions we've asked before I mentioned that I had 17, 18 questions that arose from yesterday and what came from the European Union last week - and I don't try to answer them before further notice. As I told you earlier in the past, we're initiating the ideologies, we're initiating our goals, and in fact, the policies that the European Union has been working on for years, and we're going to continue working on. We also know that once we take this step, it will not be so easy to return. It's going to be hard to come to the European Union and say, "I'm sorry, but we made a slight error with a pack of energy, we kind of have to go back, we can't record it, we thought it was different, we interpreted it differently. It doesn't mean anything to say that when the owners and executives of the Atlantic Superconration string have gone into lawsuits in Iceland. That doesn't mean you're making that excuse. That's why, Mr. President, I think it's very important to get to the bottom of the big picture as I've said before. It's quite clear that if the hologram is just as treacherous, I'm going to allow myself to use that word, and I think it's a responsibility to continue the case as if nothing ever happened. There have been new information. New types and a new energy package have been developed, and as a result, there is good reason for those who are involved to say: "Just we stay here. "
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u238	Madam President. I want at the beginning of my speech to understand the second answer to the question. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, the Sveinsson of Serves, and my position that it will be less likely to be of great benefit to say to the European Union later: oh, oh, I misunderstood myself, I thought it would be different, as the senator came in. - Welcome to the room, huh? The head of the State Department, it's a pleasure to have you join our middle class members here. It's a pleasure that the secretary of the Independence Party has entered the hall, and I reiterate my birthday wishes to the group set before the weekend. What I would like to include in this speech is related to the politics in general, and that is the question: What was chosen? Today, it is claimed that there is so much more at the council for the matter that it is necessary to produce the democratic will. All right. All the research that has been conducted suggests that a greater proportion of the population are opposed to this induction. It has the lowest number 48%, I and 85%, the highest number in surveys. What did the groups that now form a government state say before elections? What did they say in the campaign? Is there any chance that the point that controls the decision-making of the good voters who gave these three categories of votes was that the classes were intended to contribute to the induction of the third energy package in Icelandic right? Does anyone believe that one of the voters of all three categories had their votes determined that they were going to introduce the third energy package? No one can think of that. The left greens were simply rocked against an energy package one and two when introduced. To prove that, this is the subject of literature that can have a lot of fun reading compared with what is being done today. It is impossible that the voter of the left green had his vote determined that the left greens were going to push through the third energy package. In terms of the enterprise, it is in fact impossible that several of the candidates of the Agency in the last election had their votes dictated by the intention of ensuring that the third energy package was passed, all of which would be subject. Of course, no human believes that. Then what might be the most painful part of this, so do I. There I think they are very few, and probably none of the people who let it control their decision to support the Independence Party in the last election were going to do a great job of ensuring that the third energy package would be introduced into Icelandic rights. All the members of these three groups said in the controversies and after the campaign, as well, I think it is safe to say, that in these categories, there is a complete doubt that it would be wise to move forward with this matter. Now it is said that the democratic will must be revealed because there are so many senators eager to finish the matter and not be beaten all the more. Is it democracy? I'm not sure that many people experience that it's the way of the best democracy to say one, three complete groups of election action, then cowers, and say, "Akmavendt" when it comes to implementing these rules, which are unlikely that any of the three sides of these classes have allowed them to vote in their last elections.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u239	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. What I wanted to do was come in with what I wanted to do. A senator, especially in view of the slowness of the hall. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndóttir, is that there is new news this morning that a British mongrel who goes before the company Atlantic Superconction wants the British government to give green light on extensive projects involving making the British available for electricity to Iceland through a surging cable. This is a very interesting news item that points to this discussion that shows that these items are being followed carefully from abroad, i.e. Here's the discussion of the third energy package and hopefully not least the media class's language on that subject. I just wanted to ask if we can't conclude this out, if we only need the approval of the British government, according to this report, that the government has already approved a cable or that its managers, i.e. The investor, has had the third energy package analyzed so that these warnings will not be kept and will be judged invalid by the side of the ACER. It would be informative to get a guess. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u240	Madam President. I think it's quite safe to assume that those members who have put money in preparation for an assignment such as this will not do so by totally launching into the darkness. They feel that they have some assurance, or they feel that there is enough chance that the project will become reality in order to justify the launch of the priming and basic investment. The report that is now published puts an interesting setting of statements at the highest level. The minister of the god of Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson's son to be sent a specific request to take a so-called IceLink out of the PCI list. It must be quite traumatic for a project like this. You don't know if the report of this is intended as part of maintaining the project or finding a way to ensure that this link within the PCI environment. In any case, I think investors who go to such preparatory work always have more than one plan to complete it. Then there is a good chance that plan B will be the legal route through the Rapporteur at the time. At least you don't get into this sort of preparation all the way into the blue.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u241	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. In fact, I think this report published in the Times, a respected medium in Britain, shows just the huge interests involved in this matter and the great interests that are due to the government's approval of a pack of three energy and become part of this joint market, the joint market of Europe. It says here, for example. in the story that this is an investment of 2.5 billion pounds, corresponding to about Four hundred billion dollars, and the goal is to run a sea cable that transports energy from Iceland to Britain. It says here that the U.S. Bank of JP Morgan provided advice and that the project has 25 investors involved in the investments and may be prepared to participate in this project. It should be kept in mind that this project, if it should happen, is strong from the European Union. Here we see how far this project is going. Can't it be concluded that if governments make such an effort to deliver this and put in place any advance, which, on the one side, means that a cable will not be laid, it will be as easy as simple to eliminate these laws, to disseminate them, and to authorize sea cables if the pressure is so severe, the project is advanced, investors ready, possibly ready to make money? Is it not, then, that there is a danger that the Icelandic government sees that we are under great pressure to decommission these laws that forbid sea cables? [[The president calls.]] Won't that be reality soon after this cable project is done?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u242	Madam President. In this context, I'd like to say what I said in answer to what I said. paritaprevir Gunnar the son of Bragi, the Sveinsson of Sveinn, to fear. It's not too long since, though, it's ten years, 2009, that it was a campaign in progress where left green officials said just until the last day that there was no way of participating in a government that was taking part in the European Union. The day before the election, it was said, "No, no, there's no way. We will not participate in a government applying for involvement in the European Union. Three weeks later, I think that I recall that duration correctly, Össur had sent a letter without the presence of the Alleglans, where the government was behind the request for an adjustment interview in the European Union. Three weeks. It's a rough night. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin, says that the removal of these laws is not a small matter, it is completely justified and obvious in this context. Based on the way men are held in non-Subject groups against this third energy package and its induction it is absolutely certain that it will be in the minds of members of Congress much less decided to remove the problem of sea cable repairs than was for senators left green in their time to support the adaptation process of the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u243	Madam President. I'm one of those guys, like why. A senator who spoke earlier, reasoning that the three members of the government have turned the sheet so completely back after they took over here. It is not only that we have stumbled into and read from the National Conferences of Independence category and forwarding classes since the last election, and we have also heard testimony before the election. Councilmen, e.g. Yeah. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttir's son Proppér, who has a very long way to explain why we should not accept the third energy package. Then one year goes by and people turn their backs completely on the magazine. I began to watch it calmly while I was at ease. According to the last poll, a senator spoke that the three groups, i.e. The Conspiracy, the Revolutionary and the Pirates, have about 38% follow. It leaves 62% behind, but that's exactly the number we've heard, and not just heard, but saw in polls that is against recording this package. To be honest, I had no idea that the Independence Party would give this package for his birthday. I was kind of hoping that after the birthday party on Saturday, people would have met their clients, and maybe they'd just come up with a little bit of sense and a better way, but it's not yet to be seen. [[The president calls.]] Yet I'm glad to see it. paritaprevir Slagful Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir's daughter in the hall. I'd like to ask you something. A senator whether he believes that what I was saying before, that these proportions are about That's it, that's not it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u244	Madam President. This figure sounds familiar, and it seems to a man from the distance that the backland of these three governments is a relatively quiet one, either silent or just in the position of scrutinizing its members. They're the supporters of these three classes that step forward and defend the decision of members of Congress - I'm not going to say they're counting on one's fingers for each class, but it's not a large group, it's an oddly cool. I think that's the explanation for a great deal of that, like a whale. Says a senator, the three party parties, the Piratars, the Conspiracy, and the Reconjugation, are in agreement with this. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson has provided a wise approach regarding postponing the case until the fall, although I believe that it is likely that the case is different from what we say and how I react. A senator next to a rosary suggests that I have the right opinion. It's an amazing thing to observe in terms of what I allow to call a switch, which seems to be between the members of the government party and the nuclear instructions of each and one of them. I'm not familiar with all the details of the three major categories, but the message received and the tone that seems to be struck against each body of Congress seems to be that some of the three panels are no doubt more disturbing than they give up at the moment. [[The president calls.]] That's probably what makes a man run to finish the case so that he doesn't have to deal with it again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u245	Madam President. I think it was the dream of the Independence Party that the matter would be resolved for the birthday party, just as I know it is the hope of the Posting Party, which is used the ben party with its clothes on, and with bracelets and belts and wigs, and with new shoes like a bang. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir Gunsdótttir described - he is delaying his middle management meeting, most likely because his members and officers do not trust themselves to meet their companions with this matter open. Not only do I think this, because I know this, I've got a message from the advance people who in themselves hope for us who have lived in the murder here that this case will still be open at the time of the Special Assembly meeting, which is one of the first days of June. It may tell us, at least, that the good people have a bad conscience, which is because these people are usually good people, such as well. A senator who honors us with his presence here today. Of course, you want to believe that there people don't necessarily want to fall behind their words, as they have now, because that's why I was always hoping that as soon as we pondered all the things we've done right now in the discussion, and I'll come in on it afterwards in my speech, that nothing new came out of this. You see, something new has been happening in this, almost every day. I'd like to ask you what. A senator who knows e.g. More than I do, if he doesn't feel that people will be able to recognize the new things that have been happening and appear in this case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u246	President wants less of it. Congress members are to respect the time for speaking.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u247	Madam President. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u248	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson for the counter, while pointing out that he may be fully satisfied with judging the candidate in the matter of postponing his meeting. It is not excluded that the hall was registrated, where the meeting was to be enjoyed, and so they are forced to postpone it. I just don't believe that they'll be running a central meeting just to avoid reasoning the energy package around their backland. But what do you know? At any rate, I know about my old party, which I love most of it, that there are many people, rather troubled about the situation, and it may not be common for a person to take his stand against the leadership of his party in matters. Yet, there has been a lot of wonder about it in this case, and it frames into how large and important the matter is, but perhaps still it is said that it alluded to what this alleged warning method was drawn up like a rabbit from a hat, and the former head of the Independence Party, the Þorsteinn of Pálsson, has called praiseworthy deception, seems to be a failure to the common independent. We can see that ratio again in surveys, how much of the population is opposed to this induction. I would think, of the three government categories, that is basically the most opposition in the Independence Party. [[The president calls.]] But, of course, it's just a feeling.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u249	A respectable president. First, I just want to say that even though I personally feel that this case is to be approved, in other words, that I support its progress, I have full respect for the fear of people in the public because so much has been said about the things that should naturally arise if people feel that it is credible. The story has become that it is some kind of attack or, at least, some kind of texture of Iceland's independence, a deduction of resources and such. None of it is right, nothing, and in no way it is true, either directly or indirectly, not so seen or completely, just not above the head. It's simply not true, at least not according to everything I know about the matter, but I continue to be open with my ears and although I have not been able to review all the learned talks that have been delivered here by force. Even so, I shall be glad to hear again the arguments and to examine new evidence in whatever way it may go. However, I would also like to say that the situation in the community on this matter is, in my opinion, that waiting for it until the fall is the most attractive thing to do. Although the matter has been given quite a lot of discussion, not just by some local experts, the joint EES committee, or by governments, this or the first, or whatever, but in the community for months, the facts remain after weeks or even months of public reasoning. When this is the situation, it means that it needs more time. People may think that they need more time, but sometimes it's just that way, and I suggest that there's a fact that it's that way. Away from the precise reasons why we believe the facts that I have complained about in previous talks, the fact remains. This case needs more time. It can be cursed in sand and ashes, but that's the way it is, I can't see better. I think it's very obvious from a general discussion on this subject. The conference at the Hall and elsewhere has asked whether this matter should be considered a little more than that if a cable is placed here. I think that's a good question. We've been discussing this a little bit since there was not going to be a sea cable. Still, I've mentioned some speech, I'm sure, that I think this case is important, especially if it's laid a cable. That's what I'm saying, even though I'm against a cable. If there's going to be a sea cable, I can't see better than that it would be better to have the third energy package introduced under these circumstances. I think it would be extremely small without a cable, only to improve the independent surveillance of the Power Institute, no big deal, but certainly not bad, but, if a cable were laid in Iceland, then against my will, I would hope that there were clear rules between us and the market area that we would buy and sell energy to and from, you see, the European Union and the EEA. That's why I feel in the arrangement described in 7,697. par. in Regulation 713/2009, the most controversial issue in this energy package, the positive articles, that they are good. They assign them to the Power Institute, the Albanian Power Institute, to set rules about things such as access and so forth, how to set access rules and so on. I'm going to reiterate that it's the Power Institute, the Icelandic, who would establish those rules one-sided. Also, the Agency on the other side, which would probably be Britain, is my opinion, should make its rules on the other side. Then these institutions would normally have to agree on common rules, just like when you go shopping and buy bread, you have to agree with the person who sells the bread to you about the price. It's only natural that there's some consultation there. If it didn't work out, I would feel normal, and I don't know what could be normal, that these nations were already getting along in some process where such differences could be settled. That would be ESAs, according to this case. I think that would be a good thing under the circumstances that a cable would be laid in Iceland. I can't go any further for the moment, Mr. Honorable President, but I wish to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u250	Madam President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for his talk and thanking him for participating in this discussion. Sadly, members of Congress other than middle - class members have not been very interested in this important matter. I also want to thank him for saying that he approves of delaying this case until the fall. It is important to me and to all of us in the Middle Ages to have a careful discussion because there have been some details that have not been discussed and answers to things that would have to be done much better in, including to examine the effects on the homes and businesses of the country during the induction of a pack of three energy. I made a special decision earlier today under unprepared queries at the moment. A senator mentioned this to be the case. The members of the Central Party here use unfounded letters, have a language that would not be valid, etc. I'd like to think about one thing. I've been very busy pointing out that electrical prices have been increased by the induction of a energy package one and two because I believe the same is going to happen at a pack of three. As an example from a 2005 newspaper article in Science, I wrote: Energy prices are rising because of energy laws. This is from 2005, and another article in the 2005 Daily newspaper says: "A bank in shock over a double power bill. This is all due to an increase in electricity production from energy sources alone. I'm asking why. A senator: Am I mistaken about these examples?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u251	A respectable president. I'd have to look at that stuff as closely as possible. A senator is talking about evaluating whether this is wrong at the moment. Senator. I'd also like to say that even if I were to examine them and find that they were wrong, I wouldn't come here in a pit and get hurt. A senator of dishonesty. I do it very carefully and, actually, prefer not to do it. I'll tell you what I'm talking about. I'm talking about a case drive. paritaprevir Ólafur the son of Ísleifsson, the son of Izz, read from the opinion of the dog. Már's scholar, Stefánsson's son and Friðrik of the Árni Friðriksson son of Hirst, an out - of - date man, acted as though it were the latest information. Then I asked the opinion of these scholars because his speech gave a very misleading view of them, to say the least. He didn't think he knew. Then I asked him if he had read their new opinion, and he said that he had. This highlights the attitude of these scholars. What happened to my chest was that people were out there using words in their mouths. I'm not going to say any more, Mr. Honorable President, because I'd like to get out of that discussion. I have expressed my feelings about this and have expressed how I feel about it and what dishonesty I was talking about at the time. But I'll be happy to examine these data. On the other hand, I must also say that even if everything in this material is as good as it is. A senator says, I give it a full chance, does not change the fact that a three - pack of energy simply does not include something that would raise electrical prices except for them -- I don't dare even predict how many dollars that would be due to a higher check account of 47 or 49 million from a government fund or something like that. There is simply nothing in this energy package, I know, which is the nature of increasing electrical prices. Large changes in the entire system are very well understood to increase electricity prices and I understand that very well if it has been contained in a energy package one or two, but this is a pack of three. This is simply not a dangerous thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u252	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I would like to point out that in the review of the Parliament's resolution proposal, Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson, former minister of state who knows the EEA deal very well, feels that at the induction of a pack of three energy and those connections to the sea cable, energy prices will be introduced to Iceland's homes and companies by increasing by at least one. 50%. What I'd like to mention in this regard is that at a energy package, the government claimed that electrical prices would not rise, and the then industrial minister just claimed that it would not be a raise for this new law. Another came during the day. The exact same thing with an energy pack of three, the government cannot claim here and now that it does not contribute to the increase of electricity prices. In accordance with Directive 72/2009, the Landsnet must be implemented via wind power plants. [[The president calls.]] The cost is to fall onto the Landsnet, which, in turn, is the public of the country, so that only the land can, for example. increased electrical prices. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u253	A respectable president. At the beginning of his inquiry, the question mentioned why. A candidate in two objects in the same breath, the third energy package and the turn of the sea cable. I'm of the opinion that the transpiration of a transponder would increase the electricity prices in Iceland to homes and companies. That's my sincere opinion, and that's one of the reasons why I'm not on the side of a cable. That is not a discussion here, however, but the third energy package. In the event that a sea cable was badly laid, I think the rules contained in the third energy package would be more likely to keep energy prices low by ensuring more transparency, better consumer protection and more competitive competition. That's what the package is about. There is also another price that we need to keep in mind. We cannot look at the price just weeks or months after the change may occur, since the change in nature may have been a factor in the management of otherwise - an increase that may otherwise have occurred. It's hard to tell, but the little thing I've read about the development of energy prices suggests that increases have been kept down because of increased competition. [[The president calls.]] I'm not selling it any more than I bought, but I just want to mention that we have to look at electricity prices and its evolution from all the time we've been through.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u254	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson is very happy that he has put himself back on the rosary. There were so many questions in my mind that I'm sure I will answer his next speech too. I was only going to come in to what he said about what he said. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson, but I'm counting on Ólafur to come up here next round and they can argue about it. I'd like to ask you what. A senator. I can feel it so he can sense the ACER Institute like a sort of a formality, don't you think? That the Agency is to establish a common understanding, e.g. Britain and Iceland, as he noted in his example. Am I correct in my understanding? [[Up front.]] No, okay, but because there's this judge, let's call him, a ACER, a fixed European energy policy, which is enforcing the European Union's energy policy. Is it not likely that the Council of ACER will always take into account the objectives of the European Union, which tell us the Community's energy policy in terms of a solution? Former minister of the Independence Party, Sturla Böðvarsson, wrote in the Morning article not long ago: It is not easy to control whether the electric cable will be laid or not that will likely be lost if the energy markets are subsequently lost. The other thing I wanted to ask you is why. The senator in this festival is: doesn't he share that opinion with me, and I think I can tell all the middle-class members, that there was reason to identify the situation as if it had to end a sea cable, despite that it wasn't inserted into this introduction? [[The president calls.]] If that is the case, there is a definite possibility that this will happen. Don't we have to know what stage is waiting for us beyond that?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u255	President wants less of it. Councilmen are to respect the time of speech and also a time for the matter of the assembly to be Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u256	A respectable president. I'm going to go to a second talk about the effects of the third energy package giving a sea cable layer, especially before being laid, but also when it was laid. I don't have time to answer it here, but I'll be there in the second speech. For the fact that ACER would carry on some interest struggle - yes, plans, first of all, it is true that the ACER would not make any decisions because we are not giving ACER any power. [[Take it up: plans.]] ESA would make the decisions, certainly out of drags that came from ACER and natural, because the goal is to have a common policy, just as it is the goal of phones to have common connections so that all of us can use connections with one another. It's good, it's compatible, it's good and there's a bit of a test, that the market rules in the European Union and the EEA are the same as making it easier and more freer for us Icelanders and everyone else to invest, do business, make jobs and all the good jazz everywhere in the EEA. That is a positive goal. It's not something I'd use the English word, by permission, a reverend, it's something I'd rather use the word a role over. It is the ESA's job and the ACER role to achieve the target to be met by this third energy package. Such goals are good. They're not bad. They're good, given it's a cable. That doesn't mean it's a good idea for the Icelanders to lay a cable like I crossed the river and will go back over later. Though ESAs will make decisions with us instead of ACER, that does not mean that the ESA will necessarily decide from the exact same criteria because ESA is an institution that simply plays a different role than the ACER. ACER is a highly specialized source of energy protection, but ESA is an institution for the implementation of the EEA Convention in the EEA. It's a different role. It is quite normal that ESAs get ACER opinion in perspective, but I don't see why ESAs would change their decision based on their role towards the EEA, which is different from the ACER against the EU. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u257	Madam President. Since there is only a minute to be set, it is a challenge to choose a question. But I would like to ask. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson whether he knows examples of non-EU countries, or those under the EEA Convention, who sell energy into the EEA and how such organisations have made money in that relationship. Is it possible for parties who have not introduced the third EU energy package to sell energy across borders and into the European Union? The Russians come to mind quickly, but there may be more. Seems to be a serious problem over there, causing e.g. Germany and Russia can't do business effectively, despite my suggesting that the Russians didn't install the EU's third energy package without my research? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u258	A respectable president. In short, the answer is: No, I don't know, and I don't know those matters well enough to answer them in a very enlightened way. On the other hand, if we want to, we can completely add a cable today without wearing the third energy package. So there is no objection. I feel that sometimes it is missing in the discussion, that I feel that a third energy package is some of the key to setting a cable when it is not. The debate on transpiration was developed long before the third energy package was created, in fact, prior to the launch of the EEA together in Iceland. We could put a cable today without having the third energy package and without being in the EEA. We could do it. How exactly it would look, I don't know. All I know is what things look like, like I've looked at them. I've studied them in the context of Iceland's reality, and the reality that I've seen in my third energy package. I'd really like to get a little more involved in that, but now time goes back and forth. A respectable president. This filibuster doesn't get enough time.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u259	That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u260	President. First, I'd like to ask you why. A member of Parliament whether he believes that if a cable were laid on the behalf of Icelanders, it would result in a decrease in electrical prices or perhaps even a decrease in eco-efficiency prices. increase. Has the senator predicted this? He seems to have predicted a great deal of the sea cables. Then I would like to ask the senator some future questions because he did not answer a question. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorrin earlier. From the model 72/2009 that we can understand, so the private members will receive the irresistibly right to use the transport network and therefore, as we understand this, the Internet will be prepared to transfer their products through this network, even if only within the country. However, the net cost must be paid by all of us, i.e. The people. It is not paid by these companies directly to be connected, whether it is windmills or anything else, but by us. In fact, the big business will probably not have any long - term contracts. Does the senator disagree? Does he have another understanding of Directive 72/2009? It is very important that we realize that with this, electricity prices will rise. It even came. ... ina matterwhat. paritaprevir Þórarinsson Thorin's son, this is an example of how the induction will affect the increase in electricity, since it is none other than the user who will pay at the end of the transport network that we are required to build up under this directive 72/2009 as we understand it. So that's the question of the energy prices and this directive. Then I have other questions, which I hope will be followed by them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u261	A respectable president. There is only one factor in the Directive 72/2009 that I have been advised, which is thought to have this effect, i.e. The eighth entrance team, and I would like to read it, since I have a few seconds, with President permission: To ensure the competition and delivery of electricity at the most competitive level, Member States and national monitoring authorities should facilitate the availability of new nuclear power donors with electrical energy sources from different sources across borders and to new markets in energy production. In case of a moment. A senator refers to something else in this document, but this is the only thing I have been pointed to so far in this regard. I can understand how this reading can make them feel, but I wouldn't interpret it that way, first of all because it's an introduction, it's not an article, it's a lot, it's for an explanation of the overall context of the document set and the context is to reduce abnormal obstacles. It's just the same objective that the EEA is working on, i.e. reducing inhibitions through business and service. This does not mean that it will suddenly be the State's duty to take positive action to ensure that something can happen, but rather, rather, to be, for example. not setting up any non-employable fees or license rules as discrimination between people or something like that or setting up processes that prevent healthy competition, etc. The goal is to make the most convenient business ventures and to prevent some irreparable barriers to business. It is a legitimate and good goal that I think everyone should accept. According to this I have said, as I said before, even so is one ear. If there's anything else in this document that's short. A senator believes that there will be a great obligation to the Icelandic government to provide for the construction of some private infrastructure, I will just be happy to look at it and give it to him. A senator's better answers later.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u262	President. I think the senator gave a fine answer. The Kingdom needs to reduce barriers and if the transport system is not good enough to transport e.g. 300 megawatts produced by Norwegian citizens in Northeast may be viewed as an obstacle. I think it's just an example of something that needs to be explained better before it goes any further. But I would like to ask. A senator who's a good analyst, I'm not taking it away. A senator, if he has had a chance to wonder whether he has the effect of introducing a three - pack of energy out of the current energy package four, since he already lies in the game, or if the senator thinks it is just a separate box that needs to be finished before the other comes, regardless of what future interests may be in a pack of four. As the senator knows, the European Union ended this process on May 24 rather than May 25 and was all published on the European Union website. Is there reason to consider this matter in this large context?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u263	A respectable president. I think it's a little like a single box. A senator mentions. I don't give a damn that we have to accept a pack of energy because we've approved an energy package one or two, I've never completely understood that argument and I don't agree with it. Also, I don't think that we need to accept a pack of four energy just because we agreed on a pack of three. I've studied a three - pack of energy with an open mind, and I've listened to people's concerns and questions about the subject, but they've simply not concerned me about the contents of a three - pack of energy. I repeat once more that I am all one ear. On the other hand, I suppose I would like to consider this in the context of a pack of four energy. I just haven't done it yet, but I'll do it during this discussion, if she continues as I think she will, and I'm sure she will. As to the obstacles, I can very well understand that people understand the concept of barriers so that all physical laws and circumstances are some sort of barriers. But it's not the understanding that's meant by the EEA community or the objectives of this package as I understand it. [[The president calls.]] He is removing any governmental barriers or established in any way, not removing barriers from the soil and the distance.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u264	President. I've come first and foremost to bring a little variety into the discussion, to sing a little bit, and then I guess I'm a woman too. With regard to the third energy package, I see in my hand that this case will be approved here at council, end of a case proposed by the board. I've read the Senate resolution quite well through and on the part of the proposal I understand that most of the discussion was being discussed. that the cable will not be laid unless the council agrees. In fact, I feel that there is a part - end discussion that has generally been called upon to take action for climate change, and I don't fully see how the transpiration of sea cables would contribute to the sustainable energy supply or that such projects would somehow compare with the objectives of Iceland and other European countries to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Actually, I'd like to see a train tunnel between Iceland and the mainland, since we'll soon have to stop taking advantage of flying, but there's another discussion. However, I feel that it is important to discuss only one member of Iceland's contribution to the EEA community. Here, some kind of competition for which side may find more young people who are either across the EEA or by themselves. I believe, though, that involvement in the EEA is not something that concerns only young people, but everyone. I'm having a bit of a hard time picturing what Iceland would look like if we weren't in the EEA. It is easy to claim that something is bad and that people are afraid of something they do not fully understand. But what if we imagined that we were not part of this international cooperation? As most of us know, Icelandic youths have long pursued education and experience in continental Europe. I think it's great and have benefited myself that there is a free flow of people between European countries without having to go through some kind of government filtering. This is a privilege that I believe is often forgotten during the discussion. This also includes the possibility that a company in Iceland could draw knowledge from foreign citizens to ensure that the large structure of housing that has taken place in the capital area especially would have been impossible unless it had brought people just from the EEA to do the lowest paid jobs, unfortunately, so we could get a safe home. Member of the EEA does not reduce our regard for being an Icelandic nation. I do not agree with the presentation that we will lose some part of our sovereignty. We've been part of the EEA since 1993, and I haven't noticed that we've lost some peculiarity as a nation. Besides, I find it more risky to cultivate fear of foreign forces. It's my personal business, since I'm an immigrant's granddaughter, and it's my business as a member of society because I don't quite see how society would go on if people didn't come from abroad to learn and work. Let's just think about what Iceland would be like without the EEA community. Then, older citizens could not easily spend their old age in Canary, and who should celebrate the fun of Karabar? Young people would have to apply for all kinds of provisions to live and work in the continent of Europe. You can also wonder if people would return to Iceland after extending their horizons on foreign soil. Besides, as has been pointed out repeatedly, consumer protection would not be as good as any witness I consider to be a very important factor in the EEA work. So I think it is unnecessary to raise fear of foreign forces and, in the highest way, dangerous. Indeed, freedom of speech is beautiful, and democracy is important. The freedom of expression gives the democratic representatives permission for a lawsuit, and I am fully aware that it is one of the few tools of my part to reason things out and to demand that something be done or done be done. I can't finish my talk without pointing out the fine - looking drama I've seen in these last days, which is just men talking to men day in and day out. It may be said that this was the highlight of the Patriarch of the Father's Empire, and I deeply congratulate the Middle Class. I'm not going to keep this further to its end, but I have a rule not to express myself unless I have something to say and believe I've presented my whole point in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u265	A respectable president. Well, there's no particular question I was going to ask. Senator, just thank her for participating in the discussion. A big sex palace has been in the discussion, and it's just an excellent suggestion that she'll be here. I'd like more people to take part in the discussion than those in Pirata with us tonight, for she'll probably do something a little.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u266	Mr. President. What I want to include in my speech is the viewpoint that the EEA has shown to our situation in Iceland. Similarly, the EU has been made aware that Iceland's perspective on its special status is that there are no manpowers across the border that can transport electricity and so on the streets. Although it may be possible to find out that the representatives of these governments, or governments, in Brussels, and so forth, show some understanding of their viewpoints, at least ... tothetimethatthe induction of the third energy package has been complete, the experience shows - and once again I say; the fear of--that there are mainly private sources of damage on the basis of incorrect induction. The latest example we have here at home is doomed to the point of importing non-frozen meat. It is not European institutions that sue the European Union for damage. Rather, it is the private person who is properly based on ESA results, and so it is, if I recall the figure correctly, the 3 billion-dollar damage rates that exist today. Unfortunately, it's not enough for us here at home to convince us that our foreign partners, the officials who are in those meetings, say that it's all very nice, and people make common statements of common understanding, compared to the common understanding of the EFTA countries on the other hand, compared with the highest understanding. The secretary of state and energy manager of the European Union, on the other hand, who at the moment I can't remember what's called, is the Spanish. In such declarations there is nothing, nothing, when it comes to building properly on the basis of wrong actions. I think it is simple or naive to stand here in a pit, as some followers of the induction of this principle have done and say: It is full of understanding that our position is special. Since our situation is that no one will comment on the fact that we take the board to heart with these local warnings. What we see in court decisions first and then in damage demands and then now the reaction of the government, which we see likely before the coming end of the matter, about the import of unheated meat, is our position, apparently considered to be of little protection. We are to stop talking about such a great understanding in the EU or the EU as a whole for Iceland's special status on this matter. There is little chance that that that understanding will survive any longer than the induction of the third energy package, whether or not the translucency will come. So we should talk about things as they are; we should let the matter turn toward unheated meat become a teaching. We ended up in a position that seems to take a lot of courage to deal with, and if you see this as an independent reason to support the introduction of the third energy package, we are in a very bad place. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u267	A respectable president. How do you get a what? A senator to walk up to, on the one hand, the supporters of this case speak about us getting understanding out of our special position and thus enough to refer to some conversation of politicians or officials at meetings, the kind of thing that gets better at this matter, and then the same people insist that if we were to allow ourselves to use the legal process expected by the EEA agreement, we would be setting things in an upset and that it would appear to be the basis of this lawsuit above our head of some kind of punishment, even being fired from the EEA Association or something worse? I don't think it somehow goes together, I don't talk about when the same people use both sides as logical, on the other hand, they're such an understanding of Iceland's special status that we don't need warning and refer to some conversation between officials, it's really just more than it takes to make sure that we don't fall behind us, and it's a very dangerous thing to take advantage of the EEA agreement that gives us the very possibility of a so-called reconciliation, i.e. to reimburse the case to the joint EEA committee, to conclude with the aim that everyone will be able to cooperate, as I think that it is put in the contract, find the results that can be achieved by all. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u268	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson for answering. The cow's head has a lot of weird things, and one of them is the views that conflict so thoroughly with supporters of this energy package. Hv. A senator well expressed that understanding is adequate and does not have to be very formal in one direction, but in the other, there is no understanding, and it is claimed that we will re-enact the EEA agreement by referring the case back to the joint EEA committee in the process that was written into the agreement at the beginning. Of course, it's difficult to reason, it's a little like playing a table tennis with a lava wall, you don't know which direction the bullet is going, there's no connection with it from which direction it came. This is part of the selection of the evidence by which it fits, that is, the whole point. It is absurd, and does not resist reason that for one thing the complete understanding of the European Commission representatives is only necessary to document it sufficiently, but for the other measure, it is not even to be considered to refer the case back to the joint EEA committee on the basis of 102.g. It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u269	Mr. President. I'm glad to hear that. I agree with a senator. Then only to the second argument, i.e. The fears of the so-called EES Convention. The benefits of this contract have been mixed up, picked up on a personal level, that people can travel freely from country to country, and so forth. It's all good and good, but I don't see exactly what's the relationship between it and bringing in this third energy package. On the contrary, I would say because if we go along the way that the government offers - this is my opinion and it would be interesting to hear if. A senator agrees with me - then we're putting the EEA deal and its benefits at risk. By this we would be acknowledging the logical support of the executives and others who have spoken to this case that this agreement is not the same as the sum of the individual's rights, but some kind of terror in which Iceland should be grateful for what it can and not do anything that someone might think to be upset, I don't know who, Brussels officials, or Osholl officials. Only then, if we were to approach this contract in that way, we would be putting it at risk. It will also be expected that the Icelandic public will increasingly have doubts about this agreement, on the one hand, due to the issues introduced like the third energy package, but also because governments are starting to set it up as something in some way that the Icelanders submit to this agreement in excess of other nations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u270	Mr. President. I think it is the very key, to approach the EEA contract in the way that men entered it at the time, that we have a position comparable to our data providers, although we have in many areas over the 25 years given more than I would have considered reasonable and, on the other hand, made in much more detailed and more burdensome than the European Union itself. In some cases, it has been said that people at home are more Catholic than the pope when it comes to the introduction of the European principle. It is a legend that if we begin to approach the deal out of fear, we are little in ourselves, and afraid that if we back one of our partners, whether one of the other EEA nations or the other European Union, everything can become very bad and very angry men and women can make us very, very, very, very, very, very, very fast from the deal. It may be part of what I've been doing in a speech earlier in this discussion, that if the energy package is introduced in this way now, and some of the concern of our Middle-class and women becomes real first the pressure on the EEA contract is going to be realized, because all this cadet will be possible for no other choice but to cancel the contract. As a result, few people want to go to me. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u271	A respectable president. I really want to keep talking just like two years ago. Councilmen before they spoke. I wanted to ask you what. A member of the council is only involved in other matters. In his talk, a senator went out. It's about the many-talked frozen frozen meats. I've only been windowing the report of a bill laid out by a seafaring and agricultural minister and found there, and, in fact, even. as well as in an independent search of the Internet, good Supreme Court, which describes events that are very different from those mentioned in the discussed articles. The only thing that I can think of to explain is that this is not the case, that I have found some wrong raw meat case, which was the State's liability requirement for breaking laws to the State's commitments under the EEA Convention. The Supreme Court itself shows, by permission of the President: As in the district court, No. 133/2007 did not make any further priority on Iceland than on terms of terms I. Annex I to the EEA Convention not to be taken to Iceland, in terms of living animals and animal products such as eggs, embryos, and sperm. In other words, there was no pretext about this. It was an original foreboding, which was then decomposed to me, according to this decision 133/2007. This makes it quite different from what we are discussing here. I just wanted to ask you what. A senator is sure that we are talking about the same matter because if it is the same thing, this step should only scare in that respect that if we want to get some warning, we need to set them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u272	A respectable president. I have to admit that I don't realize that this is the same decision whether it's the case or not. It doesn't make any difference that I think, undisputed, no matter whether the current agricultural and marine eco-efficiency is being listened to, or former agricultural and marine minister, that there was a guarantee that human survival was permitted to close the import of non-unioned meat, unabated milk, and other products of the same challenge. I'll just put in a talk later tonight, since I'm going through all the details. I don't have these data in my head in terms of the details, but that's all the way, so the warning guys they thought were down there were nothing. On the other hand, if men felt that they had not been on notice, they would have not been on the road that ended with this court case, whether that is the case. A senator referred to just a few moments ago, or the sentence I gave would only be an opportunity to examine the following.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u273	A respectable president. I hope I can keep an eye on a talk. In view of this, a senator on the subject will explain why I find it interesting. I think that the misunderstanding in the state was that when we walked in the EEA, the original situation was made temporary notice of a number of factors, which were revised by this decision made by the European Commission, 133/007. That's how it looks to me. This does not change the fact that history is not what we have been warning about and that it has not been enough. It's more like this: "Upps, we forgot to put our warnings behind us when we were supposed to. Naturally, such warnings are not in force, regardless of whether they are EEA or anything else. That's how songs work, if you forget to write some songs, they're not in force until they're set. I'll let it go. A member of the council finds all the doubt I can, and I look forward to listening to his talk afterward. It will also be worth talking about the warnings in these matters because they apply to things in Regulation 713/2009, especially 7,9. par. which simply does not cover the decision to place a cable. That is why they sometimes say that these models are actually home bridges, and that's true. It's not a question of what the EEA thinks, it's about cooperation with Iceland's legal system. It's about how Icelandic lawyers manage to look at this so it's quite neat, something that is responsible for us and that would have no real consequences if we had missed my opinion. At the very least, these warnings differ materially and physically, but I look forward to hearing a talk at every turn. A senator gave me a chance to find out when he steps into this frozen beef business. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u274	Mr. President. I think I just caught it right. There was no further question. I was reminded of something I should have come into my previous answer. Már Stefánsson, second author of the report or diagnosis most widely quoted here in the discussion of the third energy package, has published his opinion that he appreciates it as wrong to the Supreme Court of Unheated Meat. I'll make it better in a speech later, although it may be a little off the case, yet I'll get it online so that the president won't make any serious remarks, I hope, on the basis that this will build or justify the conclusion that the defences are primarily to home bridges, which I hear the senator agree with me. If I recall correctly, Stephen's law Már Stefánsson's stand was that the Supreme Court in the meat business was wrong because Iceland should have had enough advance to make sure that this would not be the result. They were then considered not to be that way. Rather, it is reason to examine carefully the warnings of this third energy package. Well, at least not at all. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson thinks they're part of a home bridge, and then there's no need, if I understand the senator, it's still a core argument. If there's one argument we're going to get out of all the evidence, as far as convincing the members of the board are concerned to allow this matter to go through in the proposed way, this is the core logic, i.e. ... thattheseprecautions are out there and think they're there.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u275	Mr. President. I intend to continue my coverage of the big news story published in Sunday Times yesterday on the plans to turn a cable into Iceland, and it has a huge explanation for this and how we have to deal with it at the council. But as I had mentioned, the magazine reported that a man named Edi Truell and investors working with him were increasing the pressures of Britain's secretary of business to provide this mission with a specific definition, i.e. Accept Iceland as the national producer of electrical energy so that energy could be sold from here on the supplied price, i.e. that the company can get the strength that the British government gives companies for increasing access to renewable environmental energy. It turned out that this was all a treasure, and the only obstacle would be for the British government, or British Minister, to confirm this definition of energy production on this land as a product of national energy. Then there is an interesting subject in this article. This Truell will be a former adviser for Boris Johnsons, who knows how well to become the prime minister of Britain before long, and he has spoken for this connection for a long time, I traced it into the previous speech, and is ready to start manufacture on the cable when the project has been granted this recognition that I mentioned earlier. In fact, a technical description of how this cord will be prevented from losing energy during transport is being published. Good point, Mr. President. It is very interesting that according to this project, the cord is expected to land in North East England, but not Scotland, which is, of course, a much longer way, but it will be due to the use of energy in that region for work development. It is also of great interest that this article will discuss how special support is provided. But the bottom line of this article says, and now I have to pray to the highest. To show understanding that this whole thing is brand new and puts it in English, I'm translating it so close, that according to British government commitments to increasing access to renewable energy become energy dealers, i.e. energy companies, selling a certain proportion of renewable energy. In this way, greenhouse gas emissions are intended to be reduced, at the same time involving a substantial increase in prices. This, of course, has something to do with the national debate on energy prices. On the one hand, there has been a very clear argument that what I haven't heard from anyone that the relationship of the country with a sea cable would include an increase in energy prices because there would be a recovery of European prices. However, energy prices have been increasing steadily in the European Union, especially since energy prices are under special stress to allow governments to so subsidize and support the growth in environmental energy production. This is another example of this being incompatible with Iceland's situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u276	Mr. President. That's the last thing I'm saying. A senator writes that this report of the Times of London this morning is, of course, a major event in Iceland, and especially in this discussion. It is of its size that it alone with all the many questions it raises should produce a natural way of putting off this matter. I'm going to give you two points, one on the other, that we don't know the loss of a contract code against Iceland that could have originated, as traces to the subject of the Friðrik Árni Frildurk Friðriksson of Hirst and Stefán the Már of Stefánsson. They mention on page 35 that the Energy Agency rejects a company's application for electricalizing with the country, the company might turn to the European Commission for a lawsuit that could end with a contract breaker. They then say, under the permission of a president: Such a situation could be difficult for Iceland. In this way, it may be said that they are describing the view that men are prepared for such a case in advance of the loss of Iceland. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed that the need to call for financial analysis on what financial demands may be presented to us in such a matter? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u277	Mr. President. I don't just agree, I'm really surprised that such an analysis hasn't been made. Of course, we've tried to point out that this was a realistic possibility, that this was a significant danger, but it has frequently been demeaning our language, claiming that the cable was not on the agenda and that it would not be tested for a predictable future. However, it has been noted that the State Energy Corporation, as a priority, has long been restored to sea cables, but reports from abroad that this interest is not only present, it has not been a financial project, but it is being prepared for production of the cable and employment structure by which it leads and is requested for confirmation by the British secretary of Business. True, someone, from the directors at the time, was often in the process of understanding because Miguel had met the highest level of kommissar. Iceland's secretary of state and acknowledged that Iceland was an island and not connected with a cable at the moment. There was also a hearing at a meeting of the European Commission, and we senators were told not to worry because these two showed a very significant understanding of Iceland's position in the European Union. But then it was completely ignored, such as the dog. A senator came in, that private people could appeal. And that's where we've only got a brand-new example. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed that the meat business so called should indeed be a warning to us, and it is, in fact, ironic that the matter is happening at the council at the same time, trying to convince us to get into even greater trouble? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u278	Thank you. A senator for the answer. It is, of course, impossible to agree with him that it is, in the highest sense, irony on the part of our destiny to put us in the position of dealing with this case, since there might be a legal offense at the same time as we are dealing with the results of a violation of the agreement in meat, such as the other. A senator mentioned. That case has had all these symptoms. A senator mentioned. It is adopted by the European Union, which follows national commitments. It is thought that we haven't fully developed that national commitments in a legitimate way, and therefore the EFTA Court makes its decision, and on that basis the Supreme Court of Iceland has submitted a massive record of government damage to private funds because of these violations of the Treaty against the European Union. Mr. President. This story seems to repeat itself, at least there is a serious danger of doing so. And they, so that I again witness in footnote 62 on page 24. Thirty-five in the big-time opinion of the Friðrik of the Árni and Stefán, say about dealing violations against Iceland: Such a situation could be difficult for Iceland. It is not even a matter of evaluating how difficult that situation might be, what amount of money could be playing, but it is likely to be higher than the 3 billion that were judged here during the days when a project of up to 400 billion would occur. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u279	Mr. President. Yes, it is striking that these matters are discussed at the same time, on the one hand, at the same time in the government's attempt to overcome a matter of submission to the European Union's will and interpretation, where it is claimed that the Iceland has failed to meet the requirements of the EEA agreement despite the fact that to form Stefán Stefánsson, who may now be a member of the European Union. A senator quoted, made it clear that he considered the judgment of the EFTA Court and the Supreme Court of that case to be wrong. That'd be the wrong judgment because Iceland had these paroles. At the same time, however, the government is trying to violate this case with very vague exceptions or warnings, so you put it politely, which has not yet been found, despite the continuation of your search. But compare the size of these cases, not only in financial interest, but in political terms on the European Union's goals. The meat business is a huge thing for Icelanders and Icelandic interests, but it is small in the context of the European Union. However, the energy issue, a third energy package, is part of one of the European Union's main objectives. I think some would say the biggest objective of the relationship for some time, of connecting electrical systems, and of gaining additional access to renewable energy sources. So that we can imagine - no matter how private people would act, and I expect them, of course, to protect their interests by any means available - any pressure from the European Union would not be so much more. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u280	A respectable president. I guess it's coming, and hopefully it's not what. A senator is surprised to learn that there is an interest in people in other countries in laying sea cables in Iceland. There's nothing new. It's not new at all, it's just like your ex-fifth. The prime minister must know. No matter what, we're the reason. A senator agreed that the transpiration of a cable would not be compatible with Icelandic interests in a wide sense so that we have some common contact area on the subject. Let us take them to the point that we want to lay a cable, to the point. A senator has started a business, collected a lot of money, and we want to put a cable from Iceland to the United Kingdom. What's that in the third energy package that should help us with that? If the third energy package had already been created, what would it be easier for us to do about it? What would be cheaper for us? I can't see it's anything. The third pack of energy includes the sentence of a secondary rule of action considered by the executives to be a liability if anything is, unless there is an explanation for the procedure. It's in everyone's best interest that it's clear. It's the only circumstances I can imagine that more regulations could serve the interests of a candidate at the fix of a cable, i.e. if it explains something that would otherwise be blurred but still present. I am next on the rosary to consider the question, How do we look at the situation if we assume that the cable is being laid? One thing I don't understand is what it is in this package as a dog. A senator and his party feel that they are suitable for those who want to sea cables. Why wouldn't they like to land a cable today without the third energy package?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u281	Madam President. First of all, I want to thank you. A senator for sharing with us in the discussion. I think it helps and holds a lot of value, although it would certainly be good for some to do so. Those in charge would be able to reason with us too. You're right. A senator says, I'm not surprised to learn that there is an interest in transpiration in Iceland. I have indeed seen it in recent years. But I am surprised to learn how far this assignment has been, and many other features of the report cited, including that, in effect, the only obstacle is the wait for Britain's secretary of business to be verified. In fact, I was also surprised to read the interview by Dr. Bjarni, the son of Benediktsson. About a year ago, a minister of the Daily Telegraph spoke in this exact sea cable language, which, judging by an interview, seemed beyond my understanding. But then, that question. A senator on what a third pack of energy would have to say by promoting a trajectory. This is a great deal that has been discussed at the council, and it is sufficient simply to indicate that the goal of the third energy package is to promote integration, integration of the European electricity system, and specifically link to areas that have been previously isolated, to islands called specifically, and to increase access to environmental energy. This is so stated as to change the regulations under 713, 714 and 715 under Regulation 347/2013, as there is still a sharpness in the power of the ACER, the joint energy agency of the European Union, to force this issue. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u282	A respectable president. I have to admit, I didn't get the last article of my life. A senator referred to this. I have not yet found anything in this package that gives no warrants, either ESA or ACER, to order that a cable should be placed between Iceland and any other country. Wait a minute. A senator kindly repeats these articles that he mentioned because I have ears open and want to understand this matter as it really is. If there's something different from me, I just change my mind, I don't shy away from it, I've done it many times, and it's been done here in the paper and in the media, and I just feel like it's okay. I don't see how it's generally possible to fit the interests of someone who likes to take a cable to get more of the booths and writing skills involved in laying a sea cable. Hv. A senator himself mentioned that these parties feel that they are only in need of the approval of the British secretary of business at the moment. Don't they think they need a third energy package, some of them? You see, that's the case, a respectable president. To lay a cable, the third energy package is not needed. There is no reason to agree with the third energy package to provide a sea cable except for the interests of consumers who want transparency, consumer protection, and ensure that they compete with people, as the package is intended to do, as is so clear in it. In case of a moment. A senator can show me where it says in this package that ACER or ESA get the power to determine the cable, I'll read it. I have been pointed out to a few things that I do not agree to hide them. That's 7,59.9. par. Regulations 713/2009 and then 8 of the Council Directive 72/2009. Other than that, I don't see how it's supposed to be appropriate for an executive's interests to have more rulework to follow.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u283	Madam President. Thank you so much. A senator and a good question. I think this has a lot of explanation, and I also welcome his wholesome attitude and that he offers the possibility that he may change his mind. I wish the government would approach the matter in the same way. To answer the questions, I assume these investors mentioned in the Sunday Times are looking to the situation as they have already been introduced to the third energy package. It is true, however, that this is true. A senator says that, of course, the third energy package is not needed to lay a cable, but it promotes the fixation of a cable. Despite the wind. A senator says that he does not see in the way that more regulations, more blunder, can contribute to the fact that this price is the very essence of the matter. This increased rule is designed to achieve political goals. And the political objective of the third energy package is clear; a link between the European electricity network and increased access to green energy. Hv. A senator asked about the articles I referred to, it was certainly regulations 713 and 714 but also changes in the articles containing Regulation 347/2013 which sharpens the role of ACER. Regarding the purpose of the third energy package and the way it will contribute to the fixing of the cable, it will be sufficient to read about the role of ACER, e.g. Just on the website of this institution, but it's removing barriers for such connections. It can also be viewed as a reality example of Cyprus, one known as an island that stands to connect with a cable. ACER sees it as his role in observing that governments in concerned countries do not get in the way of this project. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u284	A respectable president. I could keep at least one or two or maybe ten 20 minutes will be in charge of this matter, but I'm going to try to cut out in this speech with two things, the way Iceland's position looks if a sea cable is laid without the introduction of a third energy package and how the position would appear when a sea cable has been corrected if the third energy package has already been created. This also involves the appearance of the site and the fixation of the cable. As has been observed in many whales. Councilmen, including some of them. paritaprevir Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson, son of Gunnuga, can lay a cable today. For some time, plans have been made to put a sea cable in a town that is still lacking credit and funds according to the authority I have. A third pack of energy includes a rule of how to set specific objects around the working of translucency. The aim is to ensure the protection of consumers, transparency and competition that lacks energy markets in many parts of the world, including Iceland in its time and in Europe at its time. In fact, one of the main objectives of the first energy package, if I correctly understand, was to break up the monomerification situation in Europe at that time. It was quite nice breaking her up and setting up a successful consumer competition. The power referred to as being reassigned from the country under the third energy pack is in 7,◯9. par. in Regulation 713/2009. They're not big enough. I'm not going to read them because I have a limited time, but anyone can look them up online. They may not be long, but they contain words that may not be obvious to anyone if you are not asking because they are technical, e.g. System organism and such words. I'm fine with that. Eight. Provided in Regulation No. 713/2009 tells us what the decisions of ACER, or ESA, in Iceland, will be made. It is calculated in a complete way. If anyone disagrees with me that it's an exhaustive way, I'll be glad to reason on it better afterwards. It also explains what decisions the national rule should make. Not how he brings them, not who they should be, but the rules of the country. These include: Transportation performance guidelines, timelines for distribution, share in revenues due to strategies and pressures pay users of the infrastructure, which can be used in two other articles. Well, then it's gonna be a little too technical for me to put some time into it here. These are not items such as European energy prices or if a translucency could be provided. It's just not in this list. This is not part of what ACER or ESA will be able to set in accordance with this Regulation. It's just not there, no matter how many times others are said. There is no basis for ESAs or ACER unless there is many months of disagreement between the National Energy Agency and the National Energy Agency. Only then would ACER or ESA interfere. If a third energy package has already been introduced, these negotiations will clearly become part of a preparatory process for sea cables. In other words, there will never be the situation where these two institutions of energy disagree and therefore never the circumstances where ESAs need to intervene. This will never be tested if we put the cable down after bringing in the third energy package. This is one reason why I think the third energy package is good, in case of a sea cable, against my will, and some other whatnot. Senators in here, they'd be laid. Now it's time now, but it's always the same story here in this good child. But this is why I think this case is good in connection with a cable. That's because if he's laid, the rule will already be done. [[The president calls.]] There's never gonna be an ESA, there's never gonna be any test of this constitution, and this is one of the reasons why I don't think the warnings are important either. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u285	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The fine talk of the Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson Right at the beginning of the talk, he introduced an item that I personally wanted to be framed, so to speak, a little better at the Senate's treatment of the third energy package, which says of the situation here in the country after the induction of a pack of three by means of an ocean cable, but then a point I find missing a discussion of, i.e. the status after the sea cable fix without a energy package of three. In fact, it is a matter of matter that I, with small exaggerations, trusted to say that I was about completely overlooked. It is a point that, so to speak, is included in this field analysis and is important to identify what was being done. Because of what? A senator has pondered it out as a possibility, and he just spoke for postponing the case until the fall, I'd like to know if he thought it was reasonable that it would be one of the things that would be really framed -- then I refer back to what I asked the senator in his first speech tonight in connection with the Russian sale of energy into the German market and so on. Clearly, this is an excellent way to carry out today's practitioner. I'd like to have the senator's view of whether he didn't think it was right to set up the scene that would show up a cable without a pack of three.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u286	A respectable president. Unfortunately, the time in my speech did not last me to review the possibility that we will put a cable and no pack of energy at three prices. As far as I can see, consumers in Iceland would do worse because the goal of the third energy package is, I'm going to read from Directive 72/2009, the first entrance team. At the end, it will appear, with the permission of a president: ▪... in order to achieve increased efficiency, competitiveness, and higher service levels, and to promote the provisional security and sustainability. I think very likely, almost certain, that if a cable is laid, the price will rise, but not because the EU will have something to control it, but because simply the demand for the current energy will be greater. We've got a lot of energy in Iceland that's dropping prices in Iceland. There is a great supply and a small demand in relation to the oer, therefore there is a low demand. As soon as there's a huge demand outside, I expect the prices will rise. However, this happens regardless of whether a third energy pack is present or not. If a cable is laid without the third energy package, energy prices will rise. I think it would increase more, at least for a longer time if there is no third energy package, because it is not this international matrix to ensure increased efficiency, competitive prices and higher levels of service, security and sustainableity. It is the aim of this package to ensure these good things for consumers, including transparency, competitive surveillance, and consumer protection. These are all positive things. None of this means that hand-control any price, which is a discussion that I find very strange, but it didn't come out of the question. Senator. So I can't see how we're better off as consumers with a cable without the third energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u287	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for the answer. I have to admit that efficiency is not the concept that I prefer to the European Union, but I could probably think of 300 terms that I would appreciate in the European Union more than efficiency. I've never heard of anyone linking the European Union to efficiency, but let's let it lie between parts, it's an exit. It is the senator's opinion that energy prices will increase more here within the country to put a cable without a pack of three energy than a pack of three. That's where I think it is. A senator - now I refer to the introduction he read to which I can't remember how it was listed - looking at EU goals as if our goals should apply to each market. I think this needs to be read so that these goals have to be carried over the entire electrical market, the interconnected, joint, to walk. Then I'm afraid that decisions would be made to achieve them targets for the interests of the larger states and not more powerful than our good countries in the Atlantic, which so many people want to connect. I reiterate what I said about efficiency, that's not really connected to the European Union, and even when I'm camping all the time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u288	So that we can maintain efficiency here, I would like to encourage senators to respect the time limit in their speeches.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u289	A respectable president. I do not view the EEA or the EU as a united entity united against Icelandic interests or Iceland. We're in the EEA, we're part of this, and Norway is, too, and other countries. When this level is applied, it is thought of by all members of the Community, whether by the EU or by the EEA. In other words, these terms can be used in the context of the entire Marketing System. But here, it may be a little bit of a ideologies because I have a little bit of a problem with terms like socialist and capitalist list because I think they're so vague, you know, so many things about the people I don't know about. To the extent that I believe in a capitalist theory, I can only give some basic conditions. One of those conditions is transparency, that it is clear how the rules and things work, that there is no monopoly on information. Another is competition. I have no faith in capitalism where one large party is on the market that controls the price and the ministry, and consumers have no practical way to influence it in a democratic way. It is the aims of having this large market area, the 500 million people marketd by the European Union. This is in order to reduce the barriers established by governments, i.e. Customs, complex rules, and corpses that interfere with normal business practices. As a result, increased efficiency, greater transparency, greater consumer protection, and better competition can be achieved. That's the whole point. It's the technique I see used here, I find it perplexing and good, and I don't know any perplexing reasons not to go that way, provided that head is having this business in the first place. But that's a question of transponder fixation, not the third energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u290	Madam President. I want to agree with those who have rejoiced at it. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son participates in the discussion, and I also rejoice that he has agreed to join us as one who has encouraged this case to be postponed, at least Until the fall. In the opinion of the legal advisers of the government, Friðrik Árni of Fridrik's Friðriksson Hirst and Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, is quoted in footnote no. 62 on page 26. 35, with President's permission: It should be noted that the third energy package places no obligation in Member States to establish an electrical exchange/base mechanisms across borders. - That's perfectly clear. Bottoms in the same footnote: However, do not forget to reject the Power Agency's application by a company in the context of that question - i.e. to establish an electrical exchange ---aree the company turn to ESA with a charge that could end up in a contract break-up against Iceland. Such a situation could be difficult in Iceland. Today's news is that we are in a long time period of technical preparation for a slant in a financial sense. Has a what? A senator considered the legal situation described in this footnote, and he has ideas about the consequences of this could be for us if such a contract offense was taken up against Iceland? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Also, in view of the meat matter sometimes referred to here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u291	A respectable president. I'll be glad I don't. A senator owns a letter from one authority to the highest. Secretary of state, day. April 10, 2019, which will show up at 3rd. Scholars feel very unlikely that ESAs will make comments. The reasons are outlined so - I'm going to read it word for word, with the permission of a president: It's a... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... This Regulation is adopted and implemented. b. Its directives regarding electrical transfers between countries are not to be carried out unless such a connection is established. c. Such a connection will be established only with the approval of the Generals, under the legal instructions at the introduction. d. The selected forms of ACER (ESA) do not reach the decision whether a cable will be laid. These permissions apply only in the presence of such a connection. Therefore, these measures will not be tested unless the Council decides to link Iceland to the EU's nuclear power market by means of a cable, and therefore no one will be able to base their rights on these regulations. In view of the fact that Iceland is not linked to the EU internal energy market, the likelihood that ESAs make comments to the induction is greatly reduced in our opinion. Even though such a declaration is political in nature, it still has significant significance and meaning in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u292	Madam President. What is discussed in the letter from April 10 is whether ESAs will make such comments. There must be some reference that ESAs do, on their own, comment on this route. However, what is discussed in footnote No. 62 on page 26. Thirty-five is just a whole different place. It's that a person is turning to ESA charges, so take the initiative, which could end up in a treatal against Iceland. With the permission of a president, the bottom line in the footnote says: "A situation like this could be difficult for Iceland. That's where I was asking if it was. A senator would have thought about it. This is quite different from the one described in the letter from April 10, 2019, and I allow myself to say that it really works.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u293	A respectable president. I'm going to quote again in the letter d to the 3rd letter we were discussing from April 10th. It says, with the permission of a president: It will not be put to the test, unless the Council decides to connect Iceland to an EU nuclear power market with a spherical cable and therefore no one will be able to base their rights on these regulations. I want to reflect on the world scene that needs to be proved in order to be the result of it. A senator is concerned. It would have to be that foreign people, ESAs, and EEA people would not make any comments about us making what we're going to do. Similarly, the EU energy manager would have to work hard to make a statement in his own name, while some people from abroad love his reputation. ACER's understanding would be that this would not be accomplished until Iceland's orders to lay a sea cable, but it would only betray it to be mean to us. What interests would that possibly serve? Who would make money on that? Who would make it easier to spread a cable like that? That's what I don't understand the theory, a respectable president. You can never wonder what happens if someone would press charges or what if someone wanted to press charges. Anyone can sue anyone for anything. I can sue the next one. A senator for something, some random article in a general law if I thought it was right. That wouldn't mean anything. The evidence doesn't convince me in any way that if Iceland's policy or the commitments to Iceland are taking, it's going to hit something to report rejection of the sea cables by the third energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u294	Madam President. In the numerous - wise opinion of the legal advisers of the government, Friðrik River Fridik's Friðriksson Hirst and Stefán the Már of Stefánsson, there is a thread where the guards are warnings and there are many. Among these are warnings about taking regulations, especially Regulation 713/2009, in the Icelandic national rights. This may result in at least a few foreign institutions. An indirect effect on national planning, provision and use of energy resources. There are other warnings to consider. Of course, they should not forget that in double terms they feel that there is considerable doubt as to whether the laws of these types, such as those mentioned by additives, are either regulations or directives, and so on - that there is considerable doubt on the issue of regulations, at least Some of these types, especially 713; in fact, more is mentioned, agree with the republic's Constitution, No. 33/144. The news today is that we have a British entrepreneur who is supported by his company, Atlantic SuperConction, as it is called in the Anglo - Saxon language, far along with preparation. It's quite remarkable to see that the preparation is similar. to the place where the cable will arrive in Britain, like a whale. paritaprevir This is where Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson raised the scene, i.e. in the northern district of Teesside, if I just noticed in the London Times report. There's been technical preparations, obviously it's over. It has been proposed that the energy will be sent under such high tensions as it is called in the Electricisian language, with less than 5% of energy loss on the way. The site has been submitted at least The foundation of funding for the project. The American big bank has been cleared up, his name is JP Morgan. The bank has reported that he has 25 interested investors. Thus, this assignment may be in sight, and what seems to be out of hand is that in its own way British authorities approve of these plans. That's even. what we will see in this discussion. They will consider that this situation, exactly this position, is taken into account by the two - person members of the Year, Friðrik's Friðriksson Hirst and Stefán Már Stefánsson's son. In a footnote on page 35, they say in a legal opinion made for the government, with permission of the president: However, do not forget to reject the Power Agency's application by a company that is inferred to electronic exchange - the company's power exchange is turned to ESA, which could result in a violation of the contract agreement against Iceland. - They're not optimistic about such a thing. They say: " A situation like this could be difficult for Iceland. ' In other words, they should not hope to win such a thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u295	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson mentioned a point that gives me the opportunity to ask him about a matter that I have long intended to hear from him. A candidate in this discussion is not an opportunity until now. Hv. A senator said that there was a plan where this cable should land in Britain, which is, of course, northeastern England, much farther south than Scotland, where humans have it, I think it is safe to say, most often assumed that the cable will land. But it has to do with the fact that the green energy from Iceland that will be moved there on the northeast corner of England will be useful to a marvelous job structure in those areas. In order to create, initially, hundreds of jobs and to increase production and value production in that part of the country. This is exactly one of the national parts that have been at the top of Britain's governments in terms of urban development and employment development, and this is all there is to put into context. What does this tell us about Iceland, if the energy is transferred from here and used in settlements in England, apparently? What, then, are we offering up in this country as to employment and valuables?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u296	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The question that he left about how this could have an impact on valuables and jobs here is just one of the many questions that arise when reading this report. Interestingly, there is no assessment, and there will be no article on this subject if such a situation arises. There is no paper on what a perfect reason would have been to follow from footnote 62 when fellow workers tell the government that they cannot hope for, at least not much, working a contract break-up that could start because a private member, a company, turned to ESA with a lawsuit that could end up with a contract break-up. I'm going to also say that those persons who are preparing for a sea cable, with all the technical features that follow, through technical knowledge, and with all the tools that have apparently been made for financing, must have presented themselves and must know all the rights that we have agreed on by this package. They must appreciate it so that they would be able to break the way here in the force of such a case as they to swerve into footnote 62 and predict the finals, the Friðrik's Árni of Friðurkursson Hirst and Már Stefánsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u297	Madam President. Yeah, you'd think so. But for the job development that the British or this company gives as a special reason that the British government is now about to label this, can't it be expected that if this Icelandic energy can begin by creating 800 jobs, as they talk about and then a lot of jobs, hundreds or thousands of jobs, the same thing would happen if energy became new in Iceland, that it could create hundreds of jobs here, even thousands of jobs? Is this not particularly important in view of what energy has been an important basis for construction in Iceland around the country? England is, as you know, a very densely populated country, and with a very diverse industry, services and employment life over the heads while energy in the country has - being able to offer environmental energy at controlled prices - often crucial for even entire parts of the country in terms of either maintaining a level of employment or increasing jobs and increasing value. Can't it be concluded that if you think this Icelandic energy can make a difference for a job building in North East England, you'll find it'll make a difference here, too, about farms and employment in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u298	Madam President. Let's take a look at the numbers. Hv. A senator mentioned a figure of 800 jobs. If 800 jobs can be created, I must not say whether the secondary jobs are also included, but if not counted in multiple natural fields. This is done in its power, and the plans are thus to put energy on those projects in such a way that it will be delivered at the cost of making such a connection, including financial costs and costs of energy loss, which are expected to be up to 5%, of which it also counts on the job. Then it can be seen, in that light, by industrial creations, by building up, and by developing into the community here. Because this energy can be offered much lower prices here, where it is produced and where a cable has not been costed longer than is known, and so on. That's for sure. This aspect of the matter would be an interesting project for people with expertise in economic factors, social factors, and commercial factors and creative factors. However, it is not difficult to see how much more building could be done here in the power of that energy than Teesside in the United Kingdom after transporting it all that way with ample cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u299	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. The discussion of price prices with or without a cable, a cable with or without a pack of energy, is part of the basis for a complete dissecting process beyond the opportunity for the work that has already been done. In my opinion, the amount of work that has been committed to identifying potential cost development is negligible depending on the mechanism selected. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson who he appreciates the impact of this. The impact on domestic management is, of course, one thing, but I'm mainly in this context looking to companies in the country, to introduce a third energy package, and after the sea cable has been laid. I'm going to approach the situation so that there's a great chance that a cable will be laid at some point, and I've reasoned on that in previous talks, which I don't have time to repeat, but I'll do in a speech later if they call it in. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's visualization of the impact on land management, both energy access and energy prices.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u300	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I don't think it's an accident that an organization like the National Association of Iceland, the National Parkers' Organization and the House's Economic Institutes and influential union officials have turned in debates about this matter of Congress that violates approval. Of course, since the primary objective and basis of this cooperation are consistent, uniqueity, these are passwords, and considering that in Iceland energy prices are much lower than averages in Europe, energy prices are not practical to assume that energy prices in this country are increasing in accordance and efficiency. It is not realistic to conclude that energy prices in Europe are reducing according to what is happening and going on here. It is obvious that we have a work environment that is very dependent on the enjoyment of the competitive advantage they have enjoyed because of the relatively low price of energy. Industrial farmers have been mentioned, but let us also see that Norway is deeply concerned about the loss of energy - carrying industry. We have an important part of our work, which is energy-rich industry, and it would naturally be in chaos if it worked out, a raise in the kind of price we've been talking about here.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u301	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur son of Ísleifsson for the answer. I think this is exactly the kind of thing that has been given too little attention, i.e. The big image on the development of electrical prices. In our good country, there's a lot of stuff to do against corporate business, so to speak. Placebos may be expensive, transport costs are high, both import and export of obtained products, and so on. There's something else that plays against us. The market for a limited part of the company's management account, as it were, is about the cost of energy efficiency. It will not be overlooked that it is entirely unfair reasoning to argue that Icelandic companies are no pity to pay the same energy prices as companies on continental Europe, when the fact is that Icelandic companies are already taking on and not only taking on but also become involved in the fact that various resources and costs and costs are higher here because of the size of the country and the size of the country. We all know that argument. My question is, "See what." A senator realizes that we have more or less control of national energy markets with or without a pack of three as it has now been installed?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u302	Madam President. I believe this question is largely answered in the opinion of Friðrik Árni Friðriksson Már and Stefánsson Mosson as they discuss how approval of this energy package is given to foreign institutions - they apply ESAs and ACER, the ESA is the European Commission, and the ACER is the European energy agency - at least An indirect effect on the nation's organization, provision and use of energy resources. I think it's a question. A senator would be very kind. I believe this conclusion of the two civilizations is very thoroughly supported by the reference to the stated rules in Regulation No. 713, which is often mentioned, especially 8th above. ... oftheCounties. Hv. One senator mentioned some factors that are relatively unfashionable to Icelandic employment. You're absolutely right. Senator. The cost of transport in and out of the country is greater than that of any other country, and it goes elsewhere. In contrast with other nations, we have a relatively high pay level. We have relatively higher financial expenses, but for various reasons, many other countries may not have to go into this area. We have in some ways a fluctuating economy that makes industry, planning, and so forth more difficult than in competitive countries. So it wouldn't be to improve the competitiveness of these companies to produce this package of energy, I think it must now be said in just one sentence.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u303	Madam President. First of all, I would like to express my joy by being here in a talk chair that caused young people to know whether they are young or not. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson and what. paritaprevir Olga Margrét Cilia. I would have wanted to have a place to talk to them, especially them. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, both of whom have left the scene. I wanted to answer some of the things that happened, for example. in the speech of a man. paritaprevir Olga Margrét Cilia. I think she misunderstood a bit of the content of many of the talks being held here because she talked a lot about panic. He has not been expelled from this public address by those who have spoken for the Central Party. I also wanted to say, because she spoke of the four freedoms: Yes, of course, we're all for it, we're against that, because, as she put it, older people can stay in the Canary Islands and that young people can pursue education abroad, exactly as young people from abroad get an education here. It's all good. We are not afraid of foreigners unless we do not. We are not afraid of the EEA or the European Union, but we want rules to be maintained. And that may be the point. We've talked about something in advance, or we've been out of luck, because the warnings given in this case are not going anywhere. In fact, I planned on my talk with some of the next to whom I was going to discuss a little about what an Eyjólfur Ármannsson of Aarhus has proposed. But because of him. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's Már, Stefánsson in the issue of April 10, I would like to quote Árni Hirst Hirst on April 10, 2018, in the morning paper where he stated, by permission of the president: It can be reasoned that there is a greater legal uncertainty in the way the government intends to conduct a third EU energy package than if the Council refused to accept the energy package by not subtracting controlled warnings for it. Then it says, by permission of the President: ◯Friðrik claims that when asked for a legal assurance, the U.S.A. does not really consider the consequences of what it would have been if the General refused to subsidiary warnings for the third energy pack. However, this could lead to political uncertainty. We've been through this a few times. I was going to take the excellent reviews of the year's Eyjólfur Ármannsson's annual son, who has not been present for discussion, and review it because of the problem. paritaprevir Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigurbjörndótttir, why. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, stopped here for a short while today, and I was kind of expecting to have a word about this very concept of Eyjólfur's Ármannsson. He says in a brief summary, with permission from the president: The third energy package is to be turned down by the General Assembly and announced to the joint EEA committee. Such treatments do not threaten the EEA agreements and are fully in accordance with its regulations. In his opinion, he later says: ▪ If the Parliament's resolution is accepted, the national rights commitment is not to take three EU types of electricity and then to the national cohesion centre, such as 7 g. The EEA Convention. Only governments are authorized to accept it. Consuming is not a law nor a government authority for the regulation. If the induction of the EU is to be delayed for an indefinite period of time, it must be made clear in the Parliamentary arrangement, unfortunately not. Induction delay is not the induction of national rights commitment. ◯ Ergo: What Eyjólfur the Ármannsson's son refers to, and it has been noted elsewhere, that the problem is being pushed ahead of him. These inductions are being delayed without properly putting them in place, as we have already made some talks. I would have loved to have this conversation with both young men. Senators who came here today, but I'm afraid they're not here anymore. I hope they hear my words and even come back. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u304	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. He cut off many of the factors, as is normal in so broad. He included legal warnings. We now face the possibility of drawing closer than we even wondered if there will be a cable here. There is the possibility that such a sea cable, such as this scenario, would be drawn up to the opinion of the government's legal advisers, the Friðrik of the Árni and of Stefán Már, who would seek the approval of the Power Institute and receive a negative answer, it would turn to ESAs and contract breakers would follow. Then the question is: How seriously would the legal person object to the national commitment that we shoulder by accepting this body's clause and introduction, as it is said, to be in a traditional way, the types under which we live, including 713, in Icelandic law? What is the value of legal advance, which appears to be a comment in an introduction principle or in a certain article against that national commitment? Remember, too, that national commitments are to be interpreted as national rights. It's a principle in law.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u305	Madam President. This is exactly what we've been trying to warn you about. I cut just as I used to say it earlier today. Prime Minister, and this was probably a headline on ruvri, something like this: I hope this is not going to happen. I agree with that, and I hope so with the highest degree. Minister, but that's not enough. We need to make sure that this is not done because we do not want energy to be sucked from here to Europe, energy that we can use here at home to meet the requirements and expectations that have been held. This will be discussed at the General Assembly during the last ten days or so, i.e. over large increases in vegetable production, energy exchanges, etc. If we are going to sell our energy abroad, how will we fulfill all that we want to do within the country, making both valuable and work? It doesn't make sense. This morning's news, of course, surprised a man. Of course, a person could expect to be on his way because we have pointed out in leading talks that the wealthy foreign people want to build a large - scale wind power plant. A large number of small inactivations of 9.9 MW have been assigned to study subjects and therefore do not have to undergo environmental assessment. Of course, you could tell yourself, and we have, in fact, led up to the last few days, and then it comes up now like many new things that have happened while we've been discussing this proposal. This energy produced by wind power plants and small - power plants is not as efficient or at the cost of the energy we are producing ourselves, so we could tell us that it should be sold somewhere else where the price would fit. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u306	Madam President. Because of what? A senator named the smaller fortresses, i.e. up to 10 MWs, and a wind power plant, I'm going to take this opportunity and remind myself of my inquiry to the highest level. Industrial Minister on the number of applications for study permits and the number of applications for activation permits and how many sources have been issued by the Agency in this regard. I'm sure it's the highest. I want to use this opportunity and remind of this inquiry in the hope that it will be answered at first convenient. If we just keep going with what took us. The situation may be that a foreign person, a foreign company with a clear sense of technical knowledge, also armed with high financial strength and has one of the world's top investment banks in his service. Based on the opinion of the Stefán Már and Friðrik Árni, they expect the company's application to the Power Institute is directly applied to the Power Institute, and this is expected to be the part of the Energy Agency currently being made independent and independent of the European government and reserved by the Minister of Ministers. But someone is then being warned that such things call for the approval of the Generals. What, then, is against the commitment that there should be a domestic person who is independent from the Icelandic government who handles these matters? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u307	Madam President. I would like to read this in a little piece on page 5. 4 In the review of Eyjólfur's annual Ármannsson of a lawyer, where he says, by permission of a president: 1st. 1st par. The EEA Treaty shows that his aim is to promote the steady and economic growth of a business and agreement to the same competitive conditions as the same rules for creating a unique European economy [...] The Council of Iceland, as the legislator of the EEA Member States, is not a basis for making changes, setting a minimum or legal notice on the induction of the EU types not being made to the decision of the joint EEA committee. Substitution is given to countries on the value of the species solely in decisions made by the Joint EEA Committee. They will not be made by legal warnings in the national rights. It is the committee that decides on this decision if the EU type should not be valid against individual countries. So many were words. That's the wrong argument we've been doing over and over again, i.e. if you are going to make a legal note of the induction of the third energy package it needs to be done by reimburseing the case to the European Commission, where the EEA and Iceland sit together, this is a policy of reconciliation, and to reach a joint conclusions on legal requirements coming from the EEA community. They won't come from here one side. I won't talk about if they don't feel like the warning we've been looking for a few days. This is no way to play with the country's shoreline. It's just not possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u308	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson for the speech. That's exactly what I'm talking about. A senator came into them always surprised by the slowness of the government and the government groups, with the highest degree. Secretary of state, to use the written channel specified at 102 st. The EEA Convention to make this advance. They seem to be a core point of the independence party's decision to back it up. It seems to be a core. When it's written in a way how to enter them through the joint EEA committee, they might. A senator would explain why the government class, especially the highest. Secretary of State, don't you think about going that way? The foremost reason is that the channel facing the 102th grade. is not the result of use. There is very little evidence, and they will, of course, give themselves reason to use the route if people experience that they are progressively forfeiting it by lack of use. I know how to do it. A senator has some other explanation for becoming addicted to the use of 102 str. But what I said now, that it was not used so far? She's over there. It's pretty clear. There must be other arguments about not using the route.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u309	Madam President. I'd still like to quote an Eyjólfur Ármannsson lawyer, and now I'm asking you. The head of the Foreign Affairs Commission for listening. I quoted this fine man when he was the highest. Secretary of State came to see us. It was as if he didn't recognize that he had seen, and perhaps he hasn't done it, the comment that this noble lawyer introduced. I also do not know that it was discussed or specified by others who are references to the introduction of this type. That's why it would be nice to have, for example. Answer this question. Because I'm opposed to what I'm doing. After asking a question, I could speak for a senator. paritaprevir Álagan Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir's daughter in the book of Eyjólfur the Year's Ármannsson. Hv. One senator asked: "Why not use this right there? " It's been used a little. It may be that on page Eyjólfur The Eyolfálður Ármannsson, the lawyer, says. 4 for the President's opinion: The Parliamentary Parliamentary Council is to refuse to submit its proposal and announce it to the joint EEA committee. Such procedures do not threaten participation in the EEA Treaty, fully ending in accordance with its regulations. For Iceland, such fears in the EEA work are dangerous. I have at times referred to this, and we have more in this room. Iceland's constitution is the legal right to the President of Iceland, who long thought it was a punt, but since then it has been used with great success. Then again you say, "Why not? " These three great jurists, both the most commonly specified and the one I now specify, all mention this possibility first: Send the case to the joint EEA committee and reject the package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u310	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I know what you're doing. Some senator has claimed that the way is inadequate? In other words, experts have gone beyond saying that it can prove to be a mystery because the route has not been used and so on. I know what you're doing. A senator or some example of legal experts saying that the way was just not good? Another point in this context, since we members of the Central Party have found ourselves in the position of having to talk for a while, is that some members of the council have declared that it was right to complete the discussion that is taking place, which, despite all the material and in no way at any measure with what you know in historical terms as a matter of speech. It seems there to be agents who seem completely unacceptable to use the 102 str. The EEA Convention, with the argument that this article has not been new for 25 years, would probably use 71st above. A political law that has not been new for 70 years to stop this discussion. I can't get a grip on this. I'm no better than that. I know how to do it. A senator's explanation of how some, mainly members of the council, are in the discussion to help support support and talk to the conclusion that 25 years of rest at 102 C.E. is far more serious and more likely to slaughter that road permanently than 71rd gr. A ballot that hasn't been used for 70 years?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u311	Madam President. It would be tempting and easy to say: The difference in the position on these two topics may be the fear of foreign power. Possibly. We have sometimes put it this way in these discussions that this is the largest international case we've ever gotten into since Icesave. I guess this is much bigger. It may be that there is a position toward members of the same political party that now draws the same legs as they do. I would also like to answer this by referring to the Friðrik Árni Hirst Jr. on April 10, after the letter of application, by permission of the president: ▪ Asked if there are any precedents for taking the way the government intends to go, Friðrik does not recognize any examples of this. Asking if Iceland's position may be weaker after taking out controlled orders when dealing with issues of the constitution, he says: Surely, then, we may be setting aside the possibility of asking for annuity on the basis of a common EEA committee. I think it is in itself that if you want to at the second point, they are potentially extremely limited once the government plan has been removed and the decision has been confirmed. This is exactly what we've been hammering here over and over again without anyone seems to listen to it, unfortunately, because there's so much at stake.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u312	Mr. President. I'm going to take this talk to you first, about the administrative problem. As a result - hopefully I'll finish this talk - I'll talk about the legal warning. The government then introduced the matter with a drumming that it would be acceptable to introduce the third energy package because it would be done legally. Then all opposition within the governmental parties seemed to disappear like dew before the sun, but before it had been so severely opposed that there seemed to be no hope that the government would achieve a solidarity over it in members of the states. In other words, that's the lead. The directors concluded that at the end of their careful opinion, at the end of their careful opinion, at the end of their decision, Stefánsson Már and Friðrik Friðsson Hirst, had a detailed view of a solution. After a detailed review of certain regulations in the Regulation, the Republic of Iceland's constitution was observed after they had reached that conclusion on 43 pages. Before discussing the legal warning, let us examine their warnings and the opinion of the administrative problem. The scholars even said so. Around 8. Regulations 713/2009, which have been widely discussed, the Regulation laid the basis for the European Energy Agency, ACER. Now I testify, by permission of the President, directly to the point of opinion: If the third energy package is introduced here on the country, the ESA will be at 8 par. The Regulation has the authority to make decisions on conditions and conditions for accessing infrastructure across borders... Later on, the decisions they might make are said by the president's permission: ... how transport capacity is distributed between electronic companies and users in this country. Then, with the permission of a president, the scribes say: We'll be on the 8th floor. Regulation No. 713/2009 recorded in the EEA Convention and introduced in Icelandic correctly as unchanged, the Regulation shall include the implementation of the European Commission to the ESA, which could be passed on by the Icelandic government. Some time later they'll say, with President's permission: And, at the same time, it will involve the interest of important electronic companies and user of the electronic energy system directly and indirectly. ACER would also have a significant impact on the content of the specific ESAs - Which, naturally, is a great news. Then they point out that the proposed decisions support the use of limited resources, i.e. that it is important to keep in mind that there is a limited resource here. At the end, they say, with President's permission: It is not an example for such an executive to the international institutions on the basis of the EEA Convention. In view of the nature and input of the power for ESA, of Article 8. Regulation No. 713/2009, considers the authors to be subject to whether the power market goes further than rests within the rule of the Constitution. At the end of the enforcing of the authors of Iceland has not yet been linked to the EU's common electricity market and is thought that the regulations of the Regulation do not have a reasonable relevance here. Their conclusion is, by permission of the President: In the future, the authors do not believe that Iceland will unproved a administrative notice in the decision made by the European Commission on May 5, 2017, on recording of the third energy package in the EEA Convention, unless it is ensured that Regulation No. 713/2009 will be introduced correctly according to the constitution And how is it possible, how can it be introduced so that it fits into the constitution when they have just said that paragraph 8. The Regulation violates it? How can this be done? It's some kind of impossible thing to do with me, Mr. President. How to implement this Regulation in a manner that conforms to the Constitution if it has been determined that Article 8. Probably going against her? How can this be done? Can the commanding problem be delayed before induction? This means whether it is an option to ignore the fact that the rules are most likely to violate a constitution, but while they are not tested, they can close their eyes to these problems, just close their eyes. Put it on hold while there is no sea cable. I'm going to proceed with this, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u313	President. You don't have to snooze. paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautiça continues to bring new puzzles into the great puzzle of the third energy package, but at the same time ask new questions we wait for. Hv. A senator mentioned the warning and, as we have seen, why. A senator conducted a study with the search for them. So I want to ask you why. A senator: How does that study work? Now several witnesses from the management team have come forward and have suggested where the warnings might be hidden. I think there's one five to six different theories about where the warning might be. Has a what? A senator was able to examine all the clues and to see if the warnings are in any of these places? If not, then why? A senator came to believe that his search should be terminated? Can we cancel the warning? Maybe he never existed? It is, of course, that it has been pointed out that even if the alarm exists somewhere and was found, it would probably not be useful because one - sided warnings seem of no value. Nevertheless, I believe that a great catch would be that if the guardian felt that he could better understand what the government really wanted when she started this way, the way it was used to convince the entire members of the government. Just finding out what was done to convince all of these people were very up - to - date.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u314	Mr. President. Thank you. Gunnlaugsson The questions that were largely involved in the search for the warning that has been extremely challenging. I want to tell you what. A senator said that it was not now that I took the assignment but that somehow, when I started talking about this legal advance and asking questions, along with other members of Congress, about where he was. I simply asked because when asked about this question on May 15, it became a history of government members. Then they came after each other with indications that he was there, and then the next came and said he was there, and the third - we were pretty confused, maybe I don't want to say it, but we didn't even realize where he was going. The search started out of it. It's still standing, so I'll tell you why. A senator has received no clear answer as to where he might be found. The strongest evidence is that it is found in a Regulation at the level of the highest level. Travel, employment and innovation ministers, that he's there, waiting for signatures. As it is up to us, we have tried to inform people and to point them out as best we can, and we have therefore pointed out that the Regulation published by the European Commission of Iceland, of one government in Iceland, is not a question of European legislation. Of course, it's absurd, so I don't want to believe that there's the legal meeting there. I think there must be more meat on your bones. The study is to listen to what the senators say.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u315	President. Then I'd like to ask who. A member of Parliament whether information from Norway was of any use to his investigation, since the Norwegian Council approved eight warnings. In fact, it is in nature similar to the puzzle with the Icelandic warning, but the warnings were public, there was no compromise on who they were, clear - up warnings that many considered contrary to the content and objectives of the third energy package. Nevertheless, for example, the Norwegians considered it important to leave them in line to form the conditions where the Norwegian Labour Party was born to allow the case to pass through the council there. This Norwegian advance is now another situation, but perhaps the Icelandic warning, exists. It consists of the Norwegians sending words to the European Union asking to confirm them in advance, i.e. ... togiverealdispension. For 14 months, responses from the European Union have not been received to confirm that the Norwegian models are approved. Then the goal is to ask him why. A senator: Even if the search is successful - I hear it. A senator hasn't given up hope yet, he continues his investigation - and this only U.S. agent is to be found. A senator, in view of the situation in Norway, can we expect the European Union to do something in advance?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u316	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the deposit. No, I haven't checked Norway's information, if that was the question. In fact, I have seen a clear translation of the warnings there at the introduction. Hv. A senator informed me that they were in a disagreement, from my sources, from the administrative court in Norway. Information from Norway - I speak very little Norwegian, I can only hope that others will. Congress officials take action to compare this Norwegian advance with the wrong story I'm working on. Of course, it's nothing but a break-up story, what I'm trying to puzzle together. I'm trying to put pieces together. Directors on where this legal committee might be. I have news for you as much as I have new information and accept all the instructions in it. I don't want to do the vow of conducting this investigation specifically, but I'll take care of it while I think it's my duty. Of course it's important. If the government assumes that this is all right, this is probably against a constitution, but it will be set as a legal agent, and it will only go to sleep with great satisfaction. So, in discussing the matter -- fortunately, we have discussed this matter here - that this legal agent is either of little means, of lack of restraint, or not present.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u317	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. This search for a warning is important in the case because the case was proposed and presented so that what made it safe to accept this synonym and thus accept the national commitments that it provided that the legal arrangement made it safe. I'm going to let myself remind me that May 15 is not there. there was a talk about legal warnings, as they would see in the discussion that followed when I had the opportunity to ask. paritaprevir Birgir Ármannsson, if he had seen this legal one in advance. With the President's permission, I'm going to grab hold of the answer. Hv. paritaprevir One year's Birgir Ármannsson says: ▪ The legal entity used by Jehovah's Witnesses is the legal entity used by Jehovah's Witnesses in your country. A legal advance is not something you find a model in a legal foreword book. Then, by permission of the President's permission, he steps toward a decision to connect through a cable: There is no such suggestion, and such a decision is not in preparation or on the table. We can call this a legal statement or a statement or anything, but materially, I think. A senator does not have to question what this means for us. There may be one explanation that somehow there is no one foreordained. Or how does that make sense? This is the reply made by a council member of the Independence Party, perhaps the leading members of the civilian council who support this matter of the government? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u318	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur, the son of Ísleifsson for that question. I'm not sure I understood that. A senator read from the answer a bit. paritaprevir Ármannsson, son of A year, of May 15th. and would like to take a closer look. I didn't hear much of answers. Just the fact that it wouldn't be a sea cable, if I understood the reading correctly, is obviously no legal one. What Is a Legal Agent? Is that clear somewhere? Yeah, in the foreword book. But is this made clear in the opinion of Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson and Friðrik Fridek's Friðriksson Hirst? Is that their opinion? That's a seven-and-a-half line, but a total of 43 pages. You've read more than many others, but. Senator. Is there an explanation of exactly what is included in the legal warning? I don't remember seeing it that way. Where, then, did this model come from? Is this something that's popped up in the board room, but is it not supported by any legal opinion? That's where I come back to it. A senator has asked a number of times about the same route that they considered seven and a half lines. No answers have been made. That's where we may be at the very heart of the matter. No deep research is in the back, and we've already hit a speed jam. Where's the legal defence? There are few answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u319	Mr. President. Thank you. The Senator's answer is, just deny that I trust no one better to continue my search and control any action on the search and interpretation of this warning in case it is found. There may be one point I'd like to mention at the moment. A senator looking into his opinion and it's that in the EEA deal, I can't find the concept legal, so I can't figure it out. These induction tools for the types of activities of this energy package should be performed legally, but the concept of the legal company does not appear to be available in the EEA Convention. There's another term in the contract that's an exception. That term and word have meaning in the EEA Convention. It can be searched for annuity and it happens at the scene of this committee called the joint EEA Committee, which will then look for a replacement, and if you have a completely new court case on induction because it is not introduced as an agent. Then, I have a question to which law of law in this country, because of the law, would offset the national commitment that Iceland will accept by accepting this synonym and leading these regulations in the light of, Mr. President, that the principle in the world of law is that national commitments will be replaced by national laws unless it goes against a constitution or rather the proper commitments outweighs the national obligation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u320	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Isleus would answer his own question, perhaps most of all in this counterargument. I agree with what. Of course, a senator's request that the only guardian of any importance is to have an exception in a legal place in this matter. Where is he? He's a member of the European Commission where such a company would be covered. We'd be looking for an 8th anniversary. and even more articles, and even the entire Regulation, 713. In view of the proclamations of the high masters in Europe and the EFTA states, there seems to be no basis for us to receive this exception. They've been very positive that this would at least happen. does not apply while a sea cable or something like that were not present. It's the most natural thing to go that way. For example, when you sign something out in advance, you are, in effect, separating yourself from responsibility in part. However, in this legal field, the European Court is introduced to the actual laws that are called Regulation, 713, and if it is introduced and premeditated, it is lifted by approval here of the synonym that we are speaking of, it is not possible to separate one or anything except have discussed it with the other member of the Treaty. It's all in force if you drop away from this notice and the defence has some meaning, i.e. The administrative watchman has a purpose, and that purpose is clearly evident in 102. See, it's that if we don't want to take him away, we'll negotiate with him, and that's the right way, of course. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u321	A respectable president. So far, in this discussion, which has been going on for probably seven days - the highest. Mr President, I'm sure I'm in speech, but I'm not answering back? From the clock to judgment.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u322	Yeah, something must've gone wrong, I'll put five minutes away.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u323	Thank you. In the seven - day discussion I have tried not to repeat myself in speeches, but I intend to do so this time in part because it matters in the light of new information that have been presented. It appeared on Thursday last week after the Council of Ministers of the European Parliament had provided the so - called fourth supply of energy. We got the weather on Thursday, Friday, and it's crystalting today and yesterday that the situation in the case is now that it makes it possible to demand that the fourth energy package as it is available be considered. As we know, one of the nuclear reasonings used to support the introduction of a third energy package is that the first and second energy package has been introduced by such shocks in Iceland that there is no need for anything else, but the third will be created in the same way. Why do I want to record it here? It is in the context that I have regularly asked the question, " What's the rush? Who's the one driving the case through the way you suggested it? ' Before finding out that the fourth pack of energy had been replaced by the Council of Ministers, I was instructed to understand how supporters of the third energy package would come to the conclusion that there was no reason to look to the new information that has been presented and the criticism that has brought upon the so - called failures of the defences, which, of course, are a nuclear injustice because the independence party leaped into the board of this sleek angle as the induction process is. Now, the fourth energy pack is in place, we can just get it by email, I suppose. But denying that there is a reason to go over such things leads you to experience everything so that those in the pack will feel bad about the matter and reason: The best thing is done. You just have to let it run out the way it happens. There will certainly be some damage to the members of these three governments, all of whom have had legal action since the election. As I've been inside before, I've had the highest. The industrial minister of Þórdís Kolb Kolbrún The Reykfjörð of Gylfadóttir declared that she did not see the possibility that the matter will be settled until the fall council of 2019. When the second secretary of the two who hold on to the so-called third energy package is this opinion, I'm going to tell you that there is no need for further witnesses, there is no rush that requires that the case be completed by the way it is suggested, and then I refer to the way all the management of the case and the conference administration aims to get rid of the program by directing it so that the speakers will be cleared and the candidates will be paid without looking at these new items that are now being added, no more or less than the fourth energy package itself, which is not too small to mention in the discussion here. He's in a hurry. There is no basis, therefore, to identify its risks with regard to the third energy package. Yet they say no. The supporters of the matter must be terribly ill at heart, as is the case today. The only argument I can see that would support this approach is that the supporters of the case believe that in the autumn, they will be in worse cases when the matter has been resolved to consider the matter and to examine recent data.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u324	Thank you. paritaprevir For Ólason's speech, Bergthhir. I have to say, I'm amazed by the intelligence of the highest. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers, huh? paritaprevir Reykfjörð Gylfadóttir Gylfjörfóttir, said that she thought it would be wise for her to postpone it until the fall, and to ask her why. A senator from where he has this information. I don't remember seeing this. I remember hearing it a few days JóhannssonIngi or weeks ago, even to the highest. A similar ambiguous statement on the same matter was made that the matter might have to be delayed. That's what we've been talking about all the time, first of all, taking the case to the joint EEA committee and trying to get a release. However, it would be wise to consider the matter of taking time and allow it to grow because in just a few days the situation has developed. I'm asking why. A senator will see if he cannot agree with me that during the past eight to ten days, there has been quite a growth in the years since our discussion, and the nation will be watching and participating in this. I have to say for myself that I get a lot of phone calls, texting, e - mails, and messages, and I meet people on the road, and there's a lot of ideas, comment and opinions going on. The vast majority of people have strong opinions on this matter, and new ideas arise, and these are being rolled over, and the subject is developing very quickly. I'm asking why. This is for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u325	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer from what happened. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason. First, it is to say that there is a rapid development in the matter these days during the discussion. In view of this, it is especially remarkable how little attention is given to supporters of the energy package, about to participate in it, and seems to push aside all new information, arguments, and viewpoints. Regarding the question that focused on where these views go. A minister would have appeared, so November 15, 2018, came to the highest station. Secretary of state for interview at the Morning Press, which is then the spring council we are working at today. So, this is from the 2018 Fall Summit and the Supreme Court. Secretary of State reports postponing the energy package until spring. The next day comes the highest. Industrial Minister, Þórdís Kolb Kolbrún Reykfjörð Gylfadóttir, for interview in the same paper, the Morning Press, under the heading "Do Not Despair the Power Pack" It quotes her, by permission of the President: It is not excluded that the implementation of a third EU energy package will be extended beyond spring Summit. So it can't be without at least until the fall of 2019 and possibly longer, as the interview continues within the best - paying loans. Minister, with permission of presidents: ▪ I've always said we're not in a hurry, and we want to take a close look. Let's move on with the Minister, with President's permission: There is no way to rule out anything about the currently developed matters of Congress. But the core point is: It is not excluded that the implementation of a third EU energy package will be extended beyond spring Summit. [[The president calls.]] Clearly, the second minister involved in this matter is the view that there is no hurry.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u326	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Bergþór Ólason for this answer. Yes, this is very interesting, considering this news as well as that. paritaprevir In fact, earlier today, the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son said that he thought that it was the most reasonable reason for his decision to postpone the case and to take up the discussion. In fact, he put it in such a way that some things need to be corrected. Of course, some things have to be corrected. I believe that there are matters to be corrected by the executives and to discuss these matters, as well as the nation's concerns. The people need to be contacted. She needs to be informed of this, and there's some work to go through. I've been able to live by the fact that this is going to a national fee, at least. need to be followed by a discussion, and with clear information the nation was informed to establish a new legal opinion on the basis of the seven and a half lines on which the whole matter is based. You need to work a legal opinion on that, for example. with this legal advance. Where do you think this legal officer should look, Mr. President? Where does that say? I haven't seen it. What kind and content should this legal arrangement be? Is there any advice on this in the opinion of the lawyers? Can anyone answer that question? Where is it to be found? Is it in the letter he sent the highest? Secretary of state? Is this a letter of explanation specific to what the legal defense should be like? No, they cannot be found, and they are not considered to be 43 pages. Then they prepare this legal advance, which is of little value, of no value, or just unfounded. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u327	A respectable president. Now, with many others, I've watched the rest of the story Harrry and the world look for the warnings for a few days, and unfortunately, it seems to be going slowly. This is no surprise to me because I was sitting here at the Senate Hall on Monday, up from four o'clock in the morning. paritaprevir Ísleifsson the son of Ishundus responded to the party order of Independence, Birgir, the Ármannsson of Aargi, and asked for a warning. I have described how the environment here looked as though it had come to a salmonor in a shelter when members of the Independence Party and assistant ministers shot down the side rooms between, sacrificed hands, and were apparently, without calling it out loud, trying to find in a moment's notice that no one knew where. It was at home, an hour later, we had four warnings in front of us that I think ended up as five. We ended the day at five o'clock, some of which were very strange. News reports on the State Department website were two of them and something similar than the following morning, on Tuesday morning, the State Department's emissaries interviewed and explained that none of these alleged warnings were warned, that they were everywhere else. There it came to light that the members of the ruling parties did not have the slightest idea where these warnings were in the world. Harrý and the Heimir have not yet found them when the fiercest supporters of the induction have no green suspicion. According to the information that came from the State Department now they're in -- why. A senator knows that story better than I do - the alleged unpublished regulation, and it will only be seen how it all happens.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u328	President. Hv. A senator made the fourth energy package a talker. Admittedly, it is amazed that none of the governments have named it in the context of the third energy package. It was known that the fourth energy package was coming, and I understand that people in the city, organization, and individuals have already been introduced to what they have some time ago. This is what happens now during the discussion that the European Union will complete this fourth energy package. Then you would think that governments would want to look at what they can find, especially in the light of the fact that they support a pack of three, especially with reference to the need for a continuation of what has happened before. These arguments are likely to be used against the same people when the fourth energy package comes along. I'd still like to draw it out and hear why. The senator's opinion of whether there is so much more that calls for this matter to be said until the fall. I can't trace it in this short answer. Last example is an article in the Sunday Times of last night about an upcoming cable. And then I'd like to know which one. A senator has studied the European Union's requirements and treaties that have been discussed by the European Union at least 12 European countries due to accession rights for activation options. Even a government company, e.g. In France, which, in the case of energy, has been making good use, I think, suddenly faces the need to go to the open market and the government company may be able to lose the right to use that natural resource.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u329	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson answered. There are other things besides this recent hatching of the Council of Ministers of Ministers on the fourth energy package, which requires that the matter be considered for further consideration. For one thing, we need to analyze the warnings much more and give humans the opportunity to convince us the skeptics that there is something in them. Take the highest. Secretary of state, sir. People who support this case will review it again. This is a factor that must take time to examine. Then, on September 23 of that afternoon, the Court's hearing of the Court's judicial decision, which is designed to be unsaid, is premiumed to not wait to see how that situation unfolds. And see also how the one - sided, let's say, the Norwegians are angry because, as we know, the European Union, 14 months later, has not been so much as an answer to a letter facing them. So there must be little experience for them. About a question why. I just have a superficial knowledge of the rules of novelty tenders. I haven't even dug deep into it yet, but it's all because of the fact that amazing noise can become in the interests of an established enterprise, it loses its use rights after the end of the present contracts. Maybe I'll get in on it better in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u330	President. It always comes with some uncertainty when a person accepts a synonym or a bill of bills. Though the future may not be anticipated, it is endeavoring to measure as much as possible the impact of the bills and the controversies. Therefore, it is extremely strange that in this large matter, people should specifically try to overlook what they can predict the impact of this clause. Maybe not least, like what? In fact, a senator mentioned, the consequences of the fourth energy package, which may seem to be a direct continuation of the third in view of government support. Why not view the influences that humans can predict? Hv. A senator made a theory about this and believed that the management team would find it harder to finish the case in the fall when matters had been clarified. What, then, does it tell us about the nature of this matter? It cannot be a good thing, which means that the more you get and the more you find out that the worse it will be, and the more difficult it will be to convince the senators to accept it. That fourth pack of energy. A senator called the winter package, from what I hear. Today, there are popular television programs in which the song is nearing the winter when people are afraid of some disaster. It is a reminder to prepare for what is to come. However, as the winter package approaches, the government's regulations are trying to hide it and not prepare themselves at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u331	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. It is not unknown, however, that the more information that is presented, the less human will agree with the agreements they made. For example, after marriage, people leave behind their marriage mate a little better. So it is understandable in this context, if we just look at the evidence that we have considered, that this is how people feel about the matter now, the supporters of the introduction, that they will have some way of getting out of the case. This will be best done by seeing whether the Middle Class and its wife will not eventually slip down. The more information is presented, the more news that comes from outside, whether the fourth supply of energy from the Council of Ministers or the news on the fixation of a cable that is meant to be financed and all you need is a friend from the government - these things, of course, are designed to shake away all confidence. I have often experienced superior officials. I have to admit, I don't have any conviction in any government, just not one of them. That's why they don't come to a council hall. Hv. Marty's members are the only ones who have participated in the discussion today. This does not indicate that men feel that they have a good cause to defend themselves. All preparation may be compared to protecting against future risks.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u332	President. The article or story published in the British Sunday Times yesterday sheds some new light on this subject, the third energy package. One of the things that is particularly interesting to this magazine's discussion is that a man named Edi Truell, a person who claims to be willing to attack the cable and go to a group of investors, says that nothing is missing except the approval of the British businessman so that the project can be attacked and created immediately by 800 jobs in the northeastern England and so on. This is especially interesting to me in view of the fact that if you can use pure Icelandic energy to produce hundreds of jobs right away in North East England and then even thousands of jobs follow up, then it must be reasonable to conclude that you could have created these jobs and their valuables in Iceland. In other words, if this Icelandic energy is taken and exported to create jobs and valuables abroad, it is being taken from what could have been created here and taken away from the work that would have been created here by the energy would have become new in this country. Worse yet, the danger is that not only the number of jobs that you might have been able to do less is that there could be a considerable decrease in the number of jobs you have been working for today. In fact, Norwegians are concerned about the same thing because of the induction of their third energy package. The number of jobs there will decrease by even tens of thousands, according to a report on the subject that was recently discussed in the farm newspaper. In the past, I have reasoned that there may be an even greater impact in Iceland. Now I'm going to explain, including. in relation to this Sunday Times report, which claims that Icelandic electricity can create this number of jobs in North England, in which way work might be reduced in Iceland, not only if we lose the opportunity to increase them, but in a small way. Let's just take my example, the Northeast District. There are several places, especially in Eyjafjörður, in Húsavík and East, where there is considerable scope. This industry is especially because it has access to the electricity of competitive price and electricity is pure green electricity, so to speak. If this competition is taken off the country and the power prices rise, as we have become part of the European electricity market, and at the same time being removed from a joint European pot, where everything is running together, nuclear energy, coal energy, etc., this is an advantage and the prerequisite for these companies to settle down and build up here. It remains the weakness of the country's distance from markets, from raw manufacturers, and from markets to commercial products that come from this production. There is a real danger that one of these companies will move on to Europe to be closer to market, save for transport costs, but continue to receive energy, including The Icelandic energy at the price available here, i.e. This joint European price. I find it incomprehensible, especially from the national interests of people, that they intend to take another as much risk as this third energy package does.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u333	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this speech. It is this very news story that now suddenly comes out of nowhere that must actually put things in perspective, i.e. that men have come here with an enormous amount of money, waiting for the British government's decision to start with, but nowhere does it say that they have nothing to talk to the Icelandic government, and it seems to be possible that this is only possible to connect them immediately. This need not be surprising, since we have heard the exception of very large programmes, especially wind energy, in fact, in those areas where it is difficult to connect because the linework does not carry it. So, saying this news about the sea cable isn't quite surprising because we've been talking about it here in the past few days what the company and investors want to build here a large wind power plant full of small pieces that don't match the costs of the energy they're producing here. It was only two options, either selling energy at a higher price than it has been paid or selling it to a higher price - bearing area. It seems to be what comes during the day now, that it is probably hanging on the stick. So I wanted to ask you why. A senator, in itself, does not have a special law on wind parks in Iceland or wind power over his head, whether in the shelter of lack of legalization, was trying to set up wind plants one, two and three without our having a bearing or faith in it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u334	President. I think it was a why. paritaprevir Þorvaldsson Thorddsson, who pointed out that the lack of a rule on energy issues, such as the lack of land in the issue of wind energy, would be much less than an obstacle to investment. On occasion, however, there might be opportunities for humans to see that there are no other rules and therefore there is a race for construction and planning of wind gardens. You're right. One senator says, there seems to be no success in implementing such projects to sell into the system as is currently demand and at the price of the current system. Energy produced by wind mills is far more expensive in production than energy produced for generation by hydropower activations or geological activations, with enormous amounts of gas production in Europe. The European Union and the government in various European countries. This has been criticized for the fact that this is a contributing factor for economic energy production and, at the same time, increases prices. Who would pay for this government grant for the windmill parks? Yes, it is consumers. You might think, in view of the article that appeared yesterday, you might think of receiving support from outside to engage in such activities, especially if Iceland has become part of a common electrical system, or has taken up this third energy package, that they will see fit to enter the European Union's funds and be given the strength to build wind gardens throughout the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u335	Mr. President. In effect, these end up all of whom we started chasing around here about a while ago. week after week, information has been added every day, some small one and some big, and is constantly added to this piece of paper, that it seems to the government to be a lighthouse. In the end, you may have thought this was because you didn't realize it, for example. how bad the defences were, that they wouldn't think, and that this was in itself an act of unwillingness, but now you're beginning to agree that all that has been done and all that the government is doing in an effort to introduce this package of energy is deliberately done, that people are walking out with open eyes that these alleged warnings that are not meant to be done and that humans don't expect them to think, but would expect them to become a means that they can become a means to be a national warning, followed by a push on the end of the sea wire. What then will be seated, which we don't know how to put together, is in itself confronted with an object and must receive the cord. This in itself is quite interesting because when we were originally thinking about this matter, we were not talking about a cable. We were talking about the multinational devices, etc. ... butnotthis. Now it becomes more apparent that governments have come just far beyond what we thought - or what? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u336	President. That certainly is to be seen. An interview at the highest. For example, in April of April of April of the British Daily Telegraph, if I recall correctly, a clue should have been given, which he spoke of, and it seems that a cable is a practical option. Then yesterday's news is being added which almost describes the project on technical issues and appears to have been, at least In the opinion of those interviewed, only coasts of the wait for the British secretary of business to grant confirmation of Iceland's definition as some kind of energy plant for Britain. I think it's time we were simply going to discuss the effects of this energy package, like they'll be when we get a cable. Of course, we hope that no sea cable will be laid, but if the energy package is approved, we will all suggest that the natural continuation of it is a translucency, and therefore all of the energy package's requirements, including On-going connections between countries. I think it would be good for the discussion, so it will continue to develop as it has certainly been doing that we'll start talking about how this will be when the energy policy, including the goals for cross-country, has been fully achieved. It is also appropriate to look to the effect when the fourth energy package is added, only to hear about the government or its representatives, but to think that all of this is one agreement and that one pack calls the next.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u337	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I've only seen a report on the approval and payment of the Minister of Ministers on the fourth energy package. There was one particular thing that I noticed. It said that one of the fourth's objectives was to expand and promote the domain of ACER. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council whether he has examined or studied this particular subject. Of course, this has not come to us in any detail, or I don't suppose it will. A senator has detailed information on this, but I ask if there was anything floating in connection with this which would be hand-to-hand with the concern we have of exactly the possible force field of ACER within the country under the rule of the third energy package. This is one of the factors in which it is absolutely necessary to get a bottom line, and that is a responsibility if those who support this induction in a way that is now proposed do not want to examine it. I'm gonna do it in my previous answer. I'm going to come to another subject in the second answer, but in the news that has already been received through the fourth energy package, this was the first thing that happened to me. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he has any success in learning about this and what effect this could have on the extended power field of ACER.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u338	President. I have to admit that I haven't had a chance to study this fourth energy package that was taken from the Council of Ministers that I understand a few days ago. Of course, it's amazing that we senators have not received any information on this, there is no evidence to show where it is heading, a step towards what the council is expected to take by the induction of the third energy package. But I wouldn't be surprised if I didn't. A senator would be right, for all of this is based on the same book. We see the development of the European Union and natural to suggest that the development of energy may be the increased central management and scope of the ACER Institute; however, there is a hint on and very strong evidence in the change of Regulations 713, 714 and 715 which may be the most relevant directives and in Regulation 347 of 2013, which is about to increase the scope and scope of the authority of this organisation and its ability to take control of the countries even in order to pursue the objectives of the Agency. Now I have not been able to verify this for myself, but I understand that this fourth package of energy has also been moving the discussion from one country to another and from one individual country to another in terms of energy, all in an effort to extend the border and thus increase to the authority of this institution. It's all on the same book.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u339	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. Hv. paritaprevir In his earlier speech this evening, the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son stated that the goals of these energy bags were noble. The European Union intended to achieve a number of noble targets associated with this energy package in one way or another, increasing the level of security, and some of these were mentioned. I'd like to ask you what. The senator what interests are likely to be in the foregrounds of decision making on such things, whether it is the regional interest of each country as the border is today, or whether the European Union's best energy policy is in the foreground. Counts 'em out. A senator that we decide in the issues that ACER presents as a solution to individual national interests or whether we are likely to be facing decisions primarily in order to achieve the EU's own objectives?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u340	President. To answer this question, it is the easiest thing to look at experience, whether it is in the energy sector - and I have given several examples of the European Union's major goals already raised questions on the subject - or on the face of the major European Union's priorities, which are the financial market and the money market or euro. The European Union's overall interests, as defined by the European Union itself, have completely filled the quest and often at the expense of the interests of certain countries. Of course, one of the most outstanding examples is Greece, which has been a history of disaster. It would be fine to compare the energy issues with the money issues compared to the state of Greece and Iceland after the financial crisis. The European Union's response to Greek debt problems was all aimed at protecting what the relationship considered to be the global interest of the EU. This is especially evident in the fact that the Greek public was taken into debt far beyond what taxpayers will ever be able to pay back. This was to release European banks, especially German banks, especially French, Italian. The Greeks were left with a painful forehead and a massive cutdown. It's a long story. Maybe I'll get a little better into this, because it's so vivid in setting priorities in the European Union. The answer is: Experience shows that the overall interest in the European Union, as defined it, will be extended beyond that.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u341	Mr. President. There's been a considerable number of people here trying to get the energy package through the council, especially the highest. Secretary of state and what. The head of the State Department, that almost all experts interviewed on this matter are in favor of going the way the government is going. However, it is seen very widely, e.g. in an interview at the Year of Friðriksson Hirst on April 10, that is not the case. This is shown in a report by the Solomon of the Eyjólfur's Ármannsson, and it has been found that 70% of the reports received by the State Department are negative to the package. I have a review as a man named Þórarinn Einarsson has sent in on May 9, 2019. He carefully reviews this package, argues for support, what it would mean to reject the decision of the joint EEA committee, the uncertainty of the full control of resources, and the uncertainty of domestic accessations. All of this, he goes very thoroughly over. He says of reasons for supporting the induction of the third energy package, by permission of the President: However, the reason why the joint EEA committee has already made a decision is that there is great fear of the consequences of its rejection by the Council, though 102th par. The EEA Convention expects this situation to arise. Then he has said that the reasonings of those who want to pick up the package get drunk or disappear in the same parties' statements that this type is of no importance, no effect, no significance to Iceland. But then here I'll testify again by permission of the President: ▪ Afterwards, the evidence for induction in the form of fear of the political consequences of rejection. In effect, the Council of Parliament gives up the right to reject the decision of the European Commission, unless perhaps in some kind of emergency, no matter what it is in the 102rd. Indicate that such rejection is of that nature. But even if that was the correct understanding, many would feel that in their current situation, it is entirely reason to use this alleged emergency measures to reject the third energy package. Then there is a quote from the agister essay by Ari Hólmur Ketilsson, a legal essay that I will likely need to use in my next speech because this is a little far. Then we will discuss uncertainty about the full control of resources. That's where they quoted 2 mg. 194. gr. The Lisbon Convention, which says that the European Parliament's and Council arrangements, are, by permission of the President, ◯ on the right of the Member States to determine the conditions of its energy sources being used, the energy sources it selects, and the general supply of energy. Then this is what Þórarinn, with permission of the President, says: ▪ This is a very strange, reckless conclusion. It can be concluded here that the state can determine whether or not they use their resources and set up frameworks, but as soon as the resource is installed on the market, the general requirements of the EEA agreement will obviously be activated and the parties must be balanced against all parties of the agreement without discrimination. He says this uncertainty about the government's warning that the main objective of the energy package is to increase business with energy between EU national borders. But the Icelandic government actually tries to avoid it by stating that it is entirely subject to the government's approval whether or not it is available to other Member States to its electricity system, i.e. ... witha cable. He says, with President's permission: Instead of removing restrictions from companies with electrical energy across borders, the Icelandic government is going to directly block business with energy across borders, across the main purpose of the third energy package. This is almost like accepting a contract with them in advance that it will not go into effect until the contract pleases it. I think I need to use another speech to go through this review, which, as you can hear, is very much the spirit that other experts have said, is the influx of the energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u342	President. I thank a senator for his excellent speech. If governments do not believe themselves, they can use a new 102 C.E. The contract, which is part of the contract - this is no footnote in an appendix or anything, no explanation, is an article in the contract that assumes that a process will take place if you do not have a decision - if you are not confident to use such a story when you are under it, as it were. Now that we discuss the nation's future energy policy, what is it for? I wondered, " What are men preconceiving in advance if it's just supposed to come to an assembly and they try to negotiate the adjustments or forms that don't come up with it? ' Does this mean, then, that it is setting a administrative notice if it is not used when it is fully tried to reach an acceptable conclusion? It's also interesting to hear what you hear. A senator reviews the report he gave in his speech, especially since in the above - mentioned legalist party of Friðrik Már and the Fririk Árni is presented in very footnote or explanation, 60 or 62, I do not remember the number on this subject, that the Icelandic state may be at risk of lawsuits and it may be difficult to defend itself against private authorities and lawyers. It looks like it's been forgotten somehow. Doesn't count why. In view of what he read earlier, would a senator need to pay more attention?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u343	Mr. President. This is in the excellent comments I read from earlier on, after Þórarinn Einarsson. He says, with President's permission: There is some uncertainty as to whether the Council could have reasonable power to determine whether and who could put a sea cable in the country following the induction of the third energy package. The legislation involving such obstacles must be considered questionable and arbitrary business barriers in the light of the EEA Convention. It is safe to believe that the ESA and/or EFTA judges will be loyal to Iceland in the event of this case. This fine person is saying to agree accurately with what others have said. On the other hand, on this administrative notice I am beginning to lean on that, after discussing this matter quite thoroughly, that they were essentially designed to suggest to the uncomfortable senators who were reluctant to confess to this package. Then the rulers of the government invented this sloth, prerogatively warning, and it was as if it had been spoken to the man - and it has now risen from some of the councils, especially during the first year, that they had evidently seen the light as soon as these officers had come, saying, "No problem." That's it. Turned to a refuge, and are now supporters of this pack of energy, according to tradition, some skeptics have been declared before, but they have swallowed it with sink and all after they were waved before them. However, the warnings are, according to what we have discussed down to a conclusion, not worth a dime. This trip is an adventure tour in which the government has started with the nation's shoreline and no one knows where the terminal is.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u344	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. Now, there is a continuation of this matter. The European Union's energy policy is given to us and the European Union, and at the same time. A senator once put it in a talk chair, using a spoon. We'll get the types, the policies, the minisaturities, to introduce ourselves right. Now there is some doubt that the journey that has been made with a pack of three energy has stood up for the constitution, and they have doubts not only in us but also in the minds of law - taught men. Doubts are that the induction is correct, making it possible for us to create or create situations for judicial matters because of the wrong induction. But most of all, we've tried to point out, and I'd like to ask the senator about it, if it's not one of the key things, that we are inculcating in spite of this warning objective of policy and ideologies. We're saying that this system that is being created in the European Union for the energy trade, that we're going to become part of it, in fact, without murmuring, because the warnings are only for home bridges, as the attorneys have rightly pointed out. Is it not a special thing to be beating on your chest and saying, as the followers of the matter have said, or not to say, because they have not spoken a lot of words here, that bringing this up in such a way is a small matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u345	Mr. President. We've led to odds, not just odds, but reasons that the warnings given are bad. The opinion that I read from earlier says, by permission of the president: It is a question, though, whether the Icelandic government actually intends to use this warning in view of the news and the declarations of government officials that support the plans for fixing sea cables during the past few years. In fact, the double government is embarrassingly prominent. This is actually saying that governments - we've got it all figured out by reviewing what they've been saying a year ago, and then now, a lot of men from the board, and people are all in the world that this case is suddenly becoming a really bad case for a year. The explanation of the transition is not in itself. We are, as I say, going on an adventure. We may be doing damages because the sum wouldn't be small and there wouldn't be 3 billion because of the raw meat we'd have to pay for damages if we were to be judged by the EFTA Court for bringing it wrong, but much higher. It's so hard to put up with it because you don't fully understand why governments don't listen to all of them - here's one more man - saying, "Keep your bags up and enjoy 102. gt. Send this to the joint committee again and negotiate. I think this is probably number three, four or five, since everybody says the same thing, don't do it the way you're going to do it now, send it back. But there's a problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u346	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson for the speech. The Senator mentioned things that I think have received rather little attention, though some, but it is about to seek damages on the basis of inadequate induction and so forth. A case in damages is not primarily derived from the European Union institutions but as it continues to be driven by private agents. There are, as we know in the meat business, mainly the entire halls. Perhaps this could be said in detail, but let's say that there are entire halls that are attending these damages on the basis of inadequate induction. Then I'd like to ask. A senator: If a situation of damages is obtained on the basis of a third energy package, whether it is more likely to be due to EU institutions or private agencies that have interest in them and have potential funds in preparing for some kind of connection and that they feel that there will be a system that will not be made available?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u347	Mr. President. I can imagine the possibility that both parties will be taking their rights to the Icelanders. We have received news of a sea cable that has been funded in Britain and are now applying for permission from the British government. There's a lot of fairy money, just for the expense. On the basis of that cost, I'm sure I'm going to earn a huge amount of money running a string, and I'm sure I'm going to find myself trying to get a right from the government's operations or inactions in Iceland. I'm almost sure that if people go into such a lawsuit with the Icelandic government, they will enjoy the help of the EFTA Court because the defences are in vain and men will believe we have not made up as the law expects. I hope that I can read the conclusions before the time is up, with the permission of a president: The third energy package is creating a wide range of uncertainty and places unnecessary criteria for the use of Icelandic energy resources. It's safe, though, to reject the induction, which is the only right way. In fact, the terms paid for induction mean that the person wants to ensure that the Icelandic electrical energy system is connected to the European Union's electrical power system immediately so that he can't get back and can hardly explain it in any way other than the person who serves someone who hides his or her own concerns or yields to some kind of political pressure. Such an attitude is absolutely irresponsible, although the results may not be seen until a few years later. So many were words.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u348	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. It all seems to be the same well with regard to the opposition of supporters under the present previews that will always be stranger and stranger. It will always be strange and strange that men are not prepared to refer the case to the European Commission on the basis of the 102rd. You wonder what men and women are going to do. I put a theory here earlier this evening that those who support the energy package and input will see that it is enough about having to face an incomplete case that they do not feel particularly comfortable with, and therefore they do not want to take the lead in extending the life of this work so that they will have to come back to the end of treatment with the joint EEA committee. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he believes that the theory that I have stated is that humans are primarily avoiding the need to handle the third energy package more often than is necessary is a possible explanation not to mention just the use of 102. Or it's a skunk. A senator that there are other explanations that I haven't figured out?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u349	Mr. President. I think it could be a combination for two reasons. The first is well - known. She's because they don't have it hanging over them anymore. They were willing to sacrifice much interests for not having the matter hanging over themselves. The other reason could be the Icelandic political syndrome, that humans cannot accept being on the wrong path, unable to admit to making mistakes, cannot say: " We are on the wrong path, turning away while we can, going the other way that many men have advised us to go. Many professionals, good lawyers, the three or four we've been bringing forward now all say: Send it back to the joint committee. However, I remember two people back then who didn't want to go there and just say, " Let's get this started. They are, as I say, four. However, the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee was dosed below the rest. They were not taken into account that they wanted guests. They were rejected. It seems also that what was read by those comments was actually handled because when a man spoke to a minister of the short time he was here, not being gentle with the man as much as the fox, it was clearly seen that he had the handle and read the things that were convenient for him. It is a serious matter if a person ignores the counsel of a good professional who is virtually united. [[The president calls.]] You don't understand, and you don't know what's behind it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u350	Mr. President. I think it's important to most people that decisions are made in an informed way. This is a matter that is very extensive in nature and that has to do with the people's vital interests. Clearly, there is turmoil, great concern among the people. The local newspaper published a recent poll of a company called MMR, and it shows that a greater proportion of the country's population are opposed to the introduction of this third energy column, as it is called, but includes, in fact, the regulations and directives that they follow will be given to the legal value in Iceland, at least The Regulation. This situation has to do with the rest of the Constitution, international cooperation and national resources. Is it possible, Mr. President, to finish it by subsidies if there is no real and satisfying information about its important aspects? I may allow myself to adopt a few factors that make it appear unsearched or uninvestigated. First, in view of today's news, a company in Britain named Atlantic Superconction or something like that is clearly far along with the planning, technical and financial process of laying down a navigating here. This matter is growing to such an extent that it raises a number of questions, and it is surprising that there has been no search for the information on a possible case of dealing violations linked to an application from such an enterprise. The possibility is attributed to Friðrik Árni Stefán Stefánsson and Stefanstsson to a company in this position that would consult the Power Institute for access to the Power Management Agency could, after receiving a revelation from the Power Institute, be turned to ESA, a European Commission case that could end by contracting a crime against Iceland. In fact, authors Friðrik Árni and Stefán Már say, with the permission of a president: A situation like that might be difficult for Iceland. They may be saying in their own way that they don't think it's a great possibility that Iceland could do this. It's one thing. Another is the 1,000 - page document, according to what is said, the fourth energy package. He was, according to reports, fully satisfied and confirmed by the European Union in the past week. There has been no evidence to present this energy package to the General, no analysis of its relationship to the third energy package. So we are walking about in uncertainty about accepting this pack of three energy without knowing what the consequences might be in the light of a pack of four, which will expect us to be under heavy pressure to agree, to have approved the third energy package. And finally, I'd like to consider the decision made by the European Court of Justice in Norway on the link between the three energy package and the Norwegian constitution. Are we really going to take care of this without all these issues being fully declared? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u351	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his speech. When we review the opinion of scholars who have discussed these matters and lawyers and those who are familiar with European rights, the message is quite misleading. Those who have doubts and warn are somewhat determined in their choice of words, I would like to say. As the senator pointed out, we know of the so - called fourth energy package. Now, some presentation of the fourth pack of energy has been carried out in a town, so to speak, the stakeholders or any of these groups have received a presentation on it, and it can certainly be said that there is part of some process with it all. When asking too much, it is not normal, especially in the light of the times. A senator mentioned earlier as to possible products, looking at the overall picture, and seeing each quarter of the energy package leading us? We saw when we picked up another energy directive, which we could call an energy package two, that it produced certain changes in the energy system here, its management in Iceland. It points to a pack of three energy that we created a pack of energy so elegant and filled more than we had to do. It has also been shown in the case and indeed in the outbacks of some members of the Parliament, which follow the fact that a turn-off of 2015 was part of a pack of three energy. However, it was only dealing with certain aspects of the second energy directive. Now lies the fourth in front of us. Is it not a responsibility not to watch and perhaps sit down and compare this with the EU energy policy, which exists and should be reasonably accessible to all?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u352	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I'd like to understand his speech in a way that is incorruption, indisputably, to agree with this big issue with the serious national commitments that we accept by accepting the Congressary decree of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, without a major matter as presented here. It has not been established, Mr. President, that there is nothing in this matter that makes any responsibilities to us because of our involvement in the work to do it now in May. There's nothing to prevent that, at least has not been shown anything, that this case would simply be postponed until the fall so that space would be allowed to be considered in an adequate way. It is unacceptable to think that there will be such widespread consequences for the nation's widespread interests and, at the same time, for individuals and legalists, in this way. You might continue with this list of unquestioned issues. For example, members of Congress have claimed that the reduction in electricity prices can be expected. They have been writing in magazines, contrary to experience and general views, it can be assumed that this will be the case. A economic report on this aspect might be minimal, but it affects each country's homes and has important consequences for many businesses.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u353	A respectable president. Now clear is clear, and no one in itself has objected that this will become reality, the induction in which this takes place, we're initiating the thought, initiating the aims, we're setting up EU energy policy. We're making her ours. The fourth energy package, when you try to read a summary of the length of the entire pack, is really just a continuation. The aim of having one common energy market is to improve. That's where even the two of them come from. before - I note that this is translated by our good English personnel and may be some shaded distinction between this text and a valid translation - by permission of the president: ▪ The ACER Institute, as presented in a pack of energy, was most likely to play a surveillance role, counseling role and coordination. However, since the future energy market is predicted to need much greater cooperation across borders, it was seen as a potential problem that would not be a target for regional monitoring of all countries regardless of borders. Then, in another text, it shows that ACER will supervise regional units and thereby prevent potential problems that could arise if each state was running its own issues that could have negative consequences on energy markets and energy users. According to this, this institution is being given more power. What effect will that have, e.g. has an institution to care for us, EFTA, ESA, who, in fact, accepts orders from ACER? Aren't we taking all too much chance, considering what the Friðrik and the Már write in their report, if we don't give this particular consideration?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u354	Mr. President. It seems only that there is a great tendency that the government in this field will have a lot of success in countries that have undergone this energy package. There's nothing else to see. Another factor in this relationship is, like, cot. A senator noted that there is a special comment in the Friðrik of the Árni and in Stefán Már paper on the weak status of the European Commission for the European Energy Agency, ACER. It is ACER who aims to determine the decisions of the EFTA, ESA. Very peculiar. These writers discuss this in relation to what man knows as a two - solid system, i.e. that we should have no interests at all in decisions that we do not have and that we do not have representatives. We are members and agents of the ESA, not of the ACER Office. That's where we only have an audience officer. Icelanders have had all the time this cooperation has been going on, and while it was in preparation, they have emphasized that the two supporting systems were in effect. You cannot agree that this is a command from foreign institutions that we are not involved in. Hence, there is much to consider if it is to take important steps to deviate from the two solid solutions in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u355	Mr. President. In the opening words of a talk given before. A member of the council I thank you for came up to about 62% of those polled by a recent poll would be opposed to the introduction of a three - pack energy package into Icelandic. Still, people persist in their desire to beat their heads against the stone. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would see if he had any explanation for the reason to continue in this matter when there are multitudes of reports in which they warn against the immediate route and make other adjustments. It is as if humans are just not sacred, and they continue completely. I wanted to go over it with what I needed. A senator whether he sees something that is just enough for humans to continue like this. Does he feel that we have been exposed in our consideration of those days and nights, suggesting that it is wise to go as the government has chosen? He believes that the way the government has chosen is successful and will, for example, be successful. contribute to a better standard of living here? I'd like to ask you, too. A senator whether he believes that the induction of this package is currently expected to yield a higher energy price to consumers than is currently expected.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u356	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I will allow myself to say that I am amazed at the harshness of the government and the government's stand on this matter. I understand the two categories that have no higher issues on their case log than those of the European Union. The two classes explained that they would support this case before it was submitted to the General Assembly, so they declared support to the matter unseen, but the toughness on the part of the government and the government party is a surprise to me. I have to admit it. No matter what objective viewpoint is introduced and discussed at the Assembly Hall, they are unappreciative, they find no basis for any opinion. V.E.G. The minister of state came here recently, and the most unusual visit was the most unusual. V.E.G. A minister came to the point where he seemed completely unprepared and empty - handed regarding the questions he was asked. Vettergis should continue to respect the views presented here in a grammatical way. You wouldn't have thought of this, I have to admit it, but the hard thing that's here in one way and another, all the people of the country are easy to understand.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u357	Mr. President. That's exactly what I'm thinking about, too. The majority of the people are opposed, yet they should be pushed into their neck language. We stand here day and night and night speaking to them because they do not listen to us and we do not receive answers. There's no evidence that men will deviate from this course. I have previously said that I admire and appreciate the encouragement we have received through all kinds of media, and people are here on the platform, even overnight, to observe the discussion. To tell you the truth, I would have thought that we had killed more of the country in this demon I would like to call so. It was asked at one radio station what the minds of the people were on that progress we were involved in. And knowingly, there are as large groups with as they are. This surprised me because the media have been very busy with the past few days, actually not on objective reasons, trying to get into the nation that we're all foolish, that we don't know anything about what we're doing, and we're just defending some imaginary interests that I can't imagine who are other than the nation's interests. Yet, half of the people who were questioned feel justified that we are here day and night. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council how he feels about this nation's attitude toward both the packages and the individuals used here and whether he feels like the government being instructed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u358	Mr. President. In the beginning, I want to draw attention to the two studies that have been referred to, on the one hand, to a survey by the firm MMR that appeared in the town's most recent form, and to the radio station survey, the quality is completely unsatisfactory. The ride of the radio station is self - chosen, and such equipment is naturally not accepted in the scientific world and is by no means scientific. I'll stick with that, until others at least As a good survey, the conclusion from MMR shows that about 62% of the population are opposed to this third energy package. I can agree with that with what. A senator and some other riders. The members of the Central Party Parliament, who have told them what day and night they are receiving from people around them to support our communication, that this message is very clear, even when going out amongst people. I still have hope, Mr. President, that the government groups will see their faces. There is no need for anyone to put off the matter simply because there are many questions that do not go unnoticed. The day's news about the foreign company that plans to put a cable here puts a whole new circle into it, and it would be completely undefeated to agree with all these questions without reservation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u359	A respectable president. We have now pointed to the fact that the fourth energy package in the EU is available. He's been approved, and he's ready. Although he has been discussed somewhere in the community for some time, it has not been done in the General Assembly. It has been observed, including In the review of the Industrial Association, the fourth energy package provides a far greater rule than other energy packages or other types have predicted. There's every reason to talk about it. I've listened to the discussion and read what I've been able to get through this fourth energy package that there's one 18◯19 question about it. The reason I mention it here, a respectable president, is that the rest is so obvious. Of course, it's all set because the fourth package includes. Refer to changes in types currently introduced through this third energy package. Among the seemingly fourth energy package is energy efficiency, i.e. renewable energy, general energy efficiency, rules, how the market works, etc. Thus, we must ask ourselves, as the industrial organizations do in their review of the third energy package, the effect of the apparent change or of any rules to be introduced here for the energy use of buildings, e.g. Iceland Must e.g. See especially the renewable energy available in Iceland, or is it something that will be put to work in the greater? It's obvious that the big scene is on, i.e. EU energy policy, when creating this package and trying to change the system in the direction that the relationship feels necessary. Will this, e.g. The rendering of changes to construction regulations in Iceland or workers' law? Would these changes have an impact on the building costs? Is there anything that might affect that? Is there anything about the ideas behind a pack of four energy... about how the input frame is used, or about the instruments used and the like? As a matter of fact, I think it's already discovered that some computerized, remote measurement has begun to be recorded. I don't know how to talk about this, but these are all questions that can be asked because if we're bringing in a energy pack three, we've taken the first step into this. The two questions I wrote to myself are: What really changes between these packages? What's the development? That's a huge question. What's the development of the book? Is there a change in our goals? Is there any change in the surveillance agencies or the members involved in this? In some way, do we tell more clearly about how the prices are about energy? Is it possible that you are adding more or more responsibilities to the energy companies than you are doing in a pack four? Is the Power Agency's role being changed into an energy package four? What changes? What will be the result? I reviewed earlier, however, that one thing is clear, this so-called ACER institution will gain more power, a new role, and a probable new goal to work on. So how do you transfer it to Icelandic sub-constructors, i.e. A power agency, if I allow myself to say it that way? What changes will there be? These are all questions, topv. A president I think might be a good idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u360	Mr. President. Hv. A senator asks big questions about the fourth energy package, and astonous as it may seem, we have not received any presentation from the Council even though the European Commission has handed it over a few days ago. It doesn't change that long before that, this fourth energy package was introduced to people in Iceland, to stakeholders, to more people in town. But it seems the government wanted to overlook the existence of this fourth energy package in a discussion of the third. It is strange in view of the rational support the members of the board have had to state the importance of implementing the third package, which has, to a large extent, went on to see that it was necessary and normal continuation of the first and second energy directives. We'd have to install package three because we'd introduced one and two and one, and that's what happened in the meantime. In view of them, when people speak for the third package and the fourth package, there is no question that they do not want to look at what is involved. We hope that during the discussion we can get closer to understanding what is included in the fourth package. What I wanted to ask you. Because he is very experienced in dealing with this complex, the European Union, it is: Is it not safe to expect, based on what he once spoke, to be part of the EU's predictable way of increasing energy governance and to take one step at a time, in some cases more, with that objective? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u361	A respectable president. The European Union's aim is very clear in energy, i.e. to improve the overall picture, try to give the entire population the opportunity to purchase clean environmental energy, reduce fossil fuels, etc. All of this is clear. And, of course, it is also clear and seen, only to observe the statements of several European rulers, that they think it is very important to increase the central management, to better control the whole thing. If I recall correctly, this chair was even quoted, not so long ago, to the power manager, who was supposed to have granted this advance of his Iceland, would have said that there would be a need to get better control. of how the energy market would be taxed, the revenue would have to be under the control of the media. But that's very interesting, because of what. A senator began to discuss that we senators have received no introduction, that I directed specific questions to the State Department on energy packages four and five. It is, in fact, there. asked: What are the key changes in the fourth energy package? How do they affect the Icelandic electricity market? There's no answer. It's nothing, it's just the damp lawsuit that's just fine. Then it is said: Yes, a special staff has been initiated on the interest guard and consultations regarding the induction of the fourth energy package. All of this must be in advance. But now there's a whole other situation, we need to see this.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u362	Mr. President. I asked the highest. Prior to this day, the prime minister's fourth energy package and why it was not associated with the third and discussed here at the council. To be honest, the answer really bothered me. V.E.G. A minister simply pointed out that this all had its start, that these types would come in and do a certain process, and we just had to wait for this to happen on the assembly line, without the top. The prime minister put it that way. This is a special concern to me in view of the fact that the government is now introducing this package and fighting for its introduction on the grounds that he has simply moved far along the distance that we are coming to receive and open it. Then you must ask yourself, " Will that not be the same with the fourth energy package? ' It was very interesting to hear it. A member of the Parliament notes how well the Icelanders could have responded to the introduction of the first and second energy directive - and when I say well, I am referring to the European Union's position, i.e. We've made this even more than what we would have had to do - there's special evidence that we don't need to be excluded. What does it tell us about the interaction between how the government is going to introduce the third energy package and what is expected in a discussion of the fourth?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-05-27-111.u363	A respectable president. Really, the answer is the question. A senator rolled up earlier with his conveyor belt. It's simply that if you don't at least use the resources they have to achieve through changes that failed in the three energy package talk, they have to stop the assembly. But I'm sorry, it's getting divorced, e.g. Give me the highest answer. Prime Minister today for asking why. There's a senator who won't stop the assembly line, that's what we're talking about. As a result, the General Assembly will be in such an impressive position that, as a result, a three - pack of energy, likely, will be running the government's will, and it will be difficult to survive when men finally dive into the fourth energy package. What is completely crazy, however, and I felt very bad to hear the highest. The prime minister says in the symposium, is refusing to recognize that the problems that may be contained in a pack four today can be identified. There is no need to wait for the whole process. It's possible to take an independent look at what's going on there to prepare the assembly if you don't want to intervene. It's very dangerous to look at these emigrants as if they're all in a box, you just take a spoon or one piece of this at once, because in the end it's taken a lot of steps that you can't go back. Once an energy pack has been introduced, if it does, it will not be reversed and the pressure will be up to four. The fact that the left-hand Prime Minister declares that it is only possible that the market of energy is further developed, making natural resources market, a product that can be transported, and even sold across borders, is quite different.
