ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u1	For both conferences and committees, a handsome lunch break will be made, i.e. pause this meeting, starting at 0100 hours. 12 o'clock. 14 today.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u2	To answer, Prime Minister, Education and Culture Minister, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Environmental and Resource Ministers and Foreign Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u3	Mr. President. I want to talk to you about whaling, asking the highest question. Prime Minister just into them. Our Högni in Hjaltalin says even In the newspaper yesterday, it is obvious that there is more to talk about the fundamental social problem that whaling is and the decision of a sea chief on the continuation of whales and that we can do much better. We also know that after Lewis Hamilton, the rider, put on his page a series of protests and surprises because of this decision made by a sea chief of over a million people, it has been observed. Clearly, the world in this regard is somehow much smaller. We cannot decide things under the cover of night, as we have sometimes been. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister on three. V.E.G. The environmental minister did not know of this decision, there was no consultation, or conversation, clearly based on his words about this decision. Does the prime minister think that this is an acceptable and effective practice? Second, I'd like to ask Prime Minister: Do you think that these fish are sustainable in their vast range, not just from hunting tolerance, but from economic sustainability and that they feel that they are suitable and sustainable in the context of animal protection and animal protection? And third: Will a prime minister promote the reexamination of the whales to the next five years? I remind you that Iceland will be the only state in the world that will hunt the second largest mammal on earth, long-lost. I would like to ask the prime minister of these three questions, and I would like to have an answer to all of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u4	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, daughter of the inquiry. First of all, I'd like to say that. Of course, a senator is well aware of my opinion that I believe it is important to perform some overall assessment of sustainable whales. So I'll witness to questions why. A senator asking me if I think whaling is self-sustaining from these vast factors I can think of, but I can't answer it as an expert, and that's why I have stressed that such an evaluation is taking place. I don't think it's a secret thing that I thought the Economic Institute report wasn't sufficient to evaluate sustainable whales. However, to answer my first question, I have respect for the decision of a sea emissary. A senator informed the highest level. My decision to make is made by the sea dignitary and agricultural secretary. I respect that he really bases it on the best data we have, i.e. Assessment of the assessment of the Agency's assessment of the establishment of these specific strains, including it shows that the long - hoped - for population. A senator is particularly referring to the growth of the ocean around Iceland and, indeed, the world around it when international measurements are taken into consideration. Do I think this is an adequate assessment of sustainability? No, I can't think that's what I'm talking about. I believe we still have a long way to evaluate sustainable whales from social, economic, and other ecological factors. We have advice from ocean research scientists that I have no reason to cross and therefore respect the highest estimate. A sea chief minister to base his decision on this, but I don't think that real food would develop on the social impact - because of shock. A senator refers, for example. In the image of the land, outward, and so forth. It may be, however, that such an investigation takes longer than we have given ourselves to that type of work so far. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u5	Mr. President. The prime minister did not answer the most important question, whether she was going to promote a change in the decision of a seafaring minister, especially in view of what was being accomplished. The prime minister said earlier, that she did not consider this to be sufficient food. I would have thought that alone, apart from the direction of the left green in this case, it should be sufficient for prime minister to request that this be revised. And in view of their own words, I would also have thought it was important who is in charge and government administration. I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister once again: Will the prime minister make changes in this decision by the minister of the sea? If a prime minister is not going to do so, he might also ask: " Was the government threatened because of this? Who is this burden that the matter cannot be revised? This has been so far done to the heart of the left green. That is why I kept asking: Will the prime minister make a decision about the continuation of whales? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u6	Mr. President. I'm going to admit that I just think it's a cool question when it's asked if the board's finalists were threatened. Perhaps it says something about political discussions if it is exposed to some threatening bullet, forgive the sleigh, 'cause I don't like threatening bullets. I do not resort to great threats to cooperation, either within the government or to the rest of my staff, to form here at government opposition. No, it wasn't a threat, but I'm not much of a threat, and I think there's too much threat in Icelandic politics, so I just say it completely out. Am I going to put up with it for a change? I'll use myself to work together for a more comprehensive meal. I don't think that food has been done sufficiently, as I said very clearly in my previous reply. I think it's the highest. A sea emissary has based his decision on the best available evidence, so I have the utmost respect for his decision. But I believe that we are now required to explore how we can perform a much more comprehensive assessment of sustainable whales. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u7	Mr. President. One of the operations that will have a decisive effect in the battle against global warming and the acidification of the sea is changing people's habits. The U.S. government policy on the carbon cycle of food in Iceland is vague, and I would like to pray to the highest degree. Agrienvironmental adviser to inform us on what is happening to domestic vegetable production compared with imported vegetables. So successful is the battle against global warming and the acidification of the sea that public's desire for change and political will and government courage are evident. The farm paper from the previous year shows that according to the report made by an engineering firm for the Garden Prayer, the carbon track of Icelandic vegetables is all down to 26% of what an imported vegetable leaves behind. In cut - off flowers, the number is 18%. On average, there is a half difference in emissions, in favour of Icelandic production. This alone shows that there is a high environmental benefit from increasing domestic product production of vegetables. Government policy aims to match Iceland's carbon balance by 2040. It will only be done by broad measures in many areas and as a result, it should be in my opinion to promote domestic vegetable production in order to reduce high levels of carbon emissions derived from import. This also results in currency savings, increased food security, build - up strength, and increased employment. Is increasing domestic vegetable production expected in reviewing the government's climate-related programme?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. This is, in fact, a turning point, for it should be especially glad that the United States is now talking about promoting domestic production. It's happy when that sound comes from a man looking forward to supporting in a more powerful way than we've done with domestic agriculture. Here, in particular, a cut flower, I am less sharp. In part, this production within the country is protected by customs in a foreign import. I'm happy when the Conspiracy hits the tone we're talking about here. I agree that there are significant changes in eating habits, and we are now working on specific activities related to them. First of all, I would like to mention a policy on public shopping for food, which is set aside by the government's emphasis on climate, including. to help shop in public meals taking into account the levels of carbon. It's in shape. We expect to get the early ideas of the work force now in April. We stopped this job last year, and there's a lot of opportunities. I would also like to mention food policy that has been at my Ministry for some time. The project was planned for that working group at the end of this year, but it has been decided to expand its project and to take more of it out and do this work under the direction of the prime minister. On this basis much more comprehensive policies will be implemented. Thus, we are working in many areas in this regard. As for the garden of Eden, I would like to mention that now the reexamination of the livestock agreements is being carried out. We have already completed our work on a reexamination of a sheep contract. That's why a bill is in here. I received last week into the opinion of a team of colleagues for cattle farming, and the next project is reviewing the agreement on gardening. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u9	Mr. President. I'm afraid it's the highest. Ministers have some mistaken policy of the United States. We have not been opposed to strengthening domestic production, although we have criticized the methods and ways in which governments have handled it. Tells you the highest. To promote Icelandic vegetable production, don't Ministers need to be drawn from a environmental point of view? Has the highest. Ministers do not wonder how it can be done, whether you can put the funding on better equipment, savings lighting, scholarship to raise the existing greenhouses, so that there will be more efficiency, etc. and better safety of saving strength from electrical transport? Then there's another big problem I think it's the highest. A minister should pay attention. Icelandic veggies are getting older, and it's not a lot of recent work. [[The president calls.]] Has the highest. A minister wondered how to build a generation bridge to a younger farm?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u10	A respectable president. I'm happy if vegan farmers grow older, because this shows that they enjoy their good, healthy production. It's better that they get older than they let it go, that's just how it is. I witnessed on the voyage of the Independence Party this week to a district week, where we visited, including the U.S.A. A few companies in the area have had a generation change, younger people are taking over. Young vegan farmers with great ideas and good plans to expand their production and take a larger slice, if we can say so, of that market. So I haven't seen that there's a lot of trouble in that subject, but I'm sure that's what I'm looking at. In this regard, I would like to say that there is a number of strength. We may discuss the possibility of expanding it in ways, but we also need to remind us that we have a rule on the strength of the EU state. It doesn't matter how it is done. I welcome all that ideas, how they do it. A senator sees this and encourages them to share their plans or ideas with the Ministry. I'll be happy to share them with the group of consultations, which are currently being revised in the provisional agreements. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u11	President. Recently, a report published by the Institute for Economics at the University of Iceland on the national impact of whale fishing. Since being published, she has received much criticism, and there are many things that are critical of her. The report is simply not accurate enough to make a decision about the future of a whale. In any case, the report on the economic foundation of the fish is reviewed, and in fact, more of the report is just discussing the interests of this one company, which hunts and is possible, but is not an indistinguishable impact on fishing. Only six pages of 47 will discuss other national effects of whale fishing, mainly affecting tourism. Criticizing that part of the report has been high and justified. A fascinating page is then destroyed in meditation on what is called terrorism in the name of nature and suggested that Icelanders simply cannot stop catching whales, where a terrorist organization tastes the taste in its demands. President. This is a ridiculous hearing. The report does not remove a single word from a whale's carbon footprint, either when it comes to the armada's fuel disposal, fishing, or getting goods on the other side of the globe. It must also be remembered that when a whale dies naturally in the sea, it takes it along and actually binds large amounts of carbon. In effect, whales and other large marine animals can reduce climate change if we just stop catching them. Following the publication of the report, the minister signed a Regulation allowing continued whaling for five years and referred to this report as a rational support for the decision. President. Given that whaling affects the working range at least I ask three other ministers: Was there a consultation with the Minister who has to deal with the consequences of this vast lack of judgment, such as. Environment Minister who seems to be not satisfied with this decision? Why were climate issues not taken into account, the greatest concern of our times, of the decision of continuing whaling?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u12	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Regarding what is discussed here, the University Economic Institutes Report, Economic Institutes itself must answer for the criticism they receive. I'm not going to go back to explaining how she's done her job. The best criticism I've received and seen in the Aggressor report on the whaling agency appears in the core at mid - February, from a person who is an avowed whale opponent who passes through this task very well. I got it. I got it. To find out what is available there, a senator examines' comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u13	He works at the University of Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u14	No, this is a man who works for a company called Eikonomics, published his analysis on the core, and goes through what they're doing right there. I think it's just a need to read for everyone to go through this. For the whaling itself and how this work is done I published long ago, last year, in what way I wished to work to make that decision. There's been no secret in this time of work, except by calling for and counseling from the Institute of Marine Research and by trying to get advice from Iceland's Economic Institute of Economics, which I think most people measure as objective and have no intention of being. This is comparable to the assessment taken in 2010 when the decision was made. On this basis, I make my own decision, on the basis of what might be considered. published in the opinion of a Merit Research Institute that gave me January 23rd. I build that decision, as I have said many times, by using the resources of the sea in a sustainable manner. [[The president calls.]] It is a principle to do so on the basis of scientific counseling, and fortunately we have observed it. It is and has been here for a principle on environmental protection and the use of natural resources in Iceland's policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u15	President. V.E.G. The minister did not answer my questions about having been consulted with other ministers, but the decision clearly affects their groups of languages as well. In addition, the preparation of the report and decision making seems to have only been consulted by a very narrow group of stakeholders. So I ask: Why? Why not? Why other ministers did not gain insight, such as. Minister of the environment? In May 2018, the MMR survey found that only 34% of the population wanted Icelanders to catch whales again. People do not seem overly excited about them, since virtually no market for whale products is available. Based on economic conditions, the requirements for sustainable use, and the highest. A minister spoke of the importance of sustainable use, how can you justify hunting unless you are fishing? We know that the income of a whale's inspection is far more than the income of a whale shoot. Is it reasonable to believe that the interests of tourism and nature are offered on the altar of sports? [[The president calls.]] President. I'm asking the highest. Minister: For whose sake does he win? I'm waiting for the highest. Minister, please answer my questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u16	A respectable president. It's a long way around here. Where does one get discernment? To other people? I don't see how I can figure it out. A senator aims to gain judgment for his own good. You gain experience, learn information, and draw lessons from it, and make decisions based on events. I have. This is a work under the Sea Scourge and Agriculture Ministers sector. I've reported many times how the lead this decision has been, and it's not been a secret, either within the government of Iceland or in the community. The decision, however, takes one thing, that's just the way it is. And I haven't formally carried it up to a special minister. Naturally, I have had discussions with government officials because of the growth of the situation and have helped them at all levels of the situation to understand the way I did it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u17	A respectable president. The government has the highest name. Secretary of finance, Bjarni son of Benediktsson, sent a request to the bank for the bank manager's pay. The bank manager's pay increased by 1.8 million, from 2.1 million to 3.8 million. It's an 80% rise, and it's said to be unfair. Then my question is, What's fair? Half of it? A 40% rise? Is that fair? That's 850,000 bucks. That's three times the minimum wage, though. If we take, for example, the bank manager's monthly salary of 12,915 times the cost of pension, the question is, what's fair? Is it fair that they receive 40,000 bucks? increase per year for the next three years, which is 120,000 K. as the labor force asks? Is it fair for bankers to go from 2.1 to 2.2 million, something like that? We must start to find out because the ideals of unemployed, desperate parents, and single parents are bad that poverty among children has increased. The poor children in Iceland have grown to 10,000,12,000. I ask: What is the policy of the government in the high pay of the bank manager and in how to deal with the fact that poverty is growing among children? You also ask yourself, " How many children are out there, not just in poverty, but in very few? '
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u18	Mr. President. Hv. A senator asks a large question: What is fair? What is a reasonable salary, and for what kind of work is it reasonable to get what reward? I guess we what. A senator cannot agree that people can survive their reward in a reasonable way? I think we also agree that we don't want to see too much money in Icelandic society. When it comes to Iceland, it's something we can be happy about, that when we compare ourselves with other countries, whether in the big context of OECD nations or northern countries, Iceland has the largest balance of income in all these countries. That's good. Then there is just another picture as we examine a property situation that is unassailable in that area. I don't have that exactly where Iceland is on a global scale, but here, it's an inequities beyond what it takes. To answer the question, why? I'd like to say two things: first, it's the highest recommendation. Economic and financial secretary to the State Bankisiton making significant comments on the pay decisions taken by public banking authorities on highest government pay rates. On the other hand, he points to government work policy on a modest salary and, on the other hand, the recommendation of the former Supreme Court. The 2017 secretary of finance to be careful with pay decisions and points out that unless these decisions are reviewed, there is a great chance that government trust and confidence in these governments will exist. This recommendation is perfectly clear. They can only be interpreted in one way, and I agree completely with the highest. Secretary of finance in this letter. [[The president calls.]] There, the governments of these companions need to show responsibility in their pay decisions because they too deal with reasonableness.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u19	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answers. But does she agree that we should stop measuring our pay raise in percent? Why don't we just stick with a dollar? Average pay, nobody lives on an average. No one lives on the percentages. It's nice to have a percentage of alcohol measurements, but when you speak a percentage, a 40% rise from $300,000. for low-payers 420,000, a 40% rise in the bank manager is 800,000. Is that fair? I say no. I think it's time for us to make sure that those of the lowest wage and benefits can live. If there are 10,000,12,000 children in poverty today, people are not living on that salary. That's what it says. And, of course, what I find most serious in this case, which I also want to ask a minister to answer, is, what is the policy of this government? Is it not so complicated to eliminate the poverty of children in Iceland? I believe we have an obligation to make sure that no one lives in poverty. It must be the most reasonable thing of all to give hope to those out there because there are people out there who don't have food. There are people with 200,000 bucks. ... ina salarythat'straveled. It's not good for food. It does not belong to drugs, much less to those who are under it because of poor housing or otherwise. Surely we can make sure that people are able to live a decent life and that they need not worry about the middle of the month whether they have food for or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u20	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator will come to my second point on the status of children. This is a remarkable report that was published yesterday on the status and standard of the lives of Icelandic children in 2004 -2016. The report also shows that the measures taken during the past one and a half years will be important in the child - care program. In this regard, I specifically refer to child improvement, but a head of the report stated that while the study exists in 2016, child reforms for the past few years have been significantly increased and the percentages changed to become more useful to the more important parent - parent group. The report also points out that there has been an increase in the pay of maternity clinics, but this is not necessarily useful to the low - income groups. One writer mentions four things worth the government especially considering to improve the standard of living for children. There is an elongation of obscenities, but the current government policy index is to be used because the care gap needs to be bridged. [[The president calls.]] Children's improvements need to be looked forward to a future convention. Then there are some things we need to work on in the area of our rural society, including the writer of free school meals and the payment of leisure activities, both of which are very important to our children in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u21	Mr. President. The topic of Iceland's Secret Bank has been a little discussed lately and not of good quality. Since January, it is in the opinion of the U.S. legislator, in the opinion of the World Bank, that he has handled certain matters and that he has done so. Seemed lawyers have indulged that the Navy bank went contrary to law, that it contradicted an agent's opinion. It has also been observed that the bank manager did not ask a hand to the opinion of a team that the Board of Bankers is doing just what they have done, and at least two bank council members have expressed a deep dissatisfaction about their practices. It has also been observed that Iceland's Séllabanki may have developed benefits. That's why I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister how she sees the behavior that the Navy has had, and the repeated, I'd like to say, the disrespect shown by the bank manager by both the law and the bank council itself. Tells you the highest. The prime minister that the bank manager and his leading carers are to shoulder responsibility for the conduct presented in this case? And how? Has the prime minister made up his mind about whether this group as a whole or to the bank manager himself should resign because of these cases?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u22	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It's all right. It's all right. It's all right. A senator refers to the bank council of Iceland as being less desirable and published and published on the Ministry of Presidency on Tuesday. We're still, i.e. My attorneys at the Ministry of Presidency and I, will review the subject of the report. It may be necessary to request further explanations on various aspects of the article, so that work is under way. It is very important that all the Directorates of the Central Bank should be carefully reviewed in these matters. If we look at the big lines, the results of the report are unconvinced, that it is important that the Sentencing bank repeats all the cases that were comparable to those of currency control, not just the matters taught by the Samherjaan, but other similar issues. That conclusion is irrefutable on the bank council. Hv. A senator specifically mentions the account of two bank council members. For this reason, I would like to say that I believe that it is absolutely clear that Iceland's Council is under the Presidency Act, although the Department of Remuneration is under the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and although the Board of Banks is elected by the Council of the Council, it is very clear in the law of the Iceland that the Council of Bank is responsible for keeping the law on the part of the bank, and I consider it to be a prime minister to call for the information that I requested to bring to the bank council to be absolutely irrefutable. I have also studied after the report was delivered, and I have not changed my view.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u23	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister was eager to answer these answers, but she did not answer my second question. I can hear the highest. Prime Minister that she views this matter seriously, as everyone does because, of course, at Iceland's Secret Bank and its activities being overcome by all doubt at any given time. Iceland's border must be trying to make it up so that he has uncircumcised trust, which he probably doesn't do right now as it has come to be. So I ask the prime minister again: Does she believe that the bank manager and his major colleagues are to accept responsibility for what is being presented in this matter? And he's got the most trusted bank manager in the world. Prime Minister? It is very important for us that we get this right because I consider this paper, which I have both seen and the information in which the prime minister has called and published, to be in such a way that it will not be avoided if something radical is being done in these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u24	Mr. President. I'm seriously looking at this matter. I believe there was a mistake in the operation and administration of the Federal Bank. I believe the report shows this in a decisive way. However, failure in the administration of institutions does not mean that my overall trust in the Federal Bank is not yet there. That's still there, my general confidence in the Secret Bank. However, as mentioned in my previous answer to a question, it is very important. Senator, we're going down to the full. So I've begun an opinion about what additional information and information needs to be provided so that we can totally get to the bottom of it. That too is in place because of what is happening. A senator calls for action, that the Board of Banks describes the opinion or position that a review requires all of these matters. Then I want less of it. A senator stands for a full reexamination of the Penitentiary Act. There is also a need to consider what is presented in the report and to ensure that this role is well cared for in the law of the Secret Bank so that such mistakes do not recur. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u25	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. The European Parliament and Council Directive 2015/1794 will be included in the EEA Convention, 258/2018. Since there was no improvement in the directive, a decision was made by the European Commission on a administrative notice on the part of Iceland. The Directive 2015/1794 stipulates the changes to five EU labour rights directives. The changes were replaced by certain forms of replacement, which were in the proposed five requirements for passengers. The objective of these changes was to ensure that passengers have the same rights as other employees and that they could take full advantage of their right to reasonable and righteous work conditions as well as the right to information sharing and consultation. The implementation of Directive 2015/1794 in this country requires changes in the law of No. 61/1999, no. 151/2006, information and consultation in companies, law No. 63/2000, on group reports, and on law No. 72/2002, about the right of employees to switch companies. The Ministry of Social Affairs has provided a legal bill for the implementation of the directive at the current legislature. A respectable president. I suggest that after this discussion, the proposal be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u26	A respectable president. By the Parliamentary resolution of this decision, the Council is requested to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of a direct decision. The European Parliament and Council Directive 2015/720 will be included in the EEA Convention. Since there was no improvement in the directive, a decision was made by the European Commission on a administrative notice on the part of Iceland. Directive 2015/720 responsibilities on the European Union Member States to reduce the use of plastic bags diluted with a concentration of 0.05 millimetres, which fall in both thin vegetable bags and standard plastic shopping bags. The directive aims for at least Another of the following objectives will be met: Otherwise, the use of plastic vehicle bags that fall under the directive will not exceed 90 such bags per person before the end of 2019 and 40 such bags before the end of 2025. However, such bags will not be distributed without charge unless other non-inferior options have been implemented. Member States should also make sure that biodegradable and perishable plastic loads have a meaning for this. The EEA/EFTA countries are expected to provide comprehensive information to the EFTA monitoring centre on the use of plastic carrier bags that depend on the regulations of the directive. A respectable president. The Senate concluded that at the initial analysis of the Environmental and Resource Ministry on the topic was considered not to need to alter the law due to the induction of the product. Therefore, it was not sent to the State Department for routine coverage, as should be done with a type that requires legal adjustment, as shown in Article 5. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. However, on the recording of the EU contract, the Environment and Resource Ministry decided to make certain changes in the laws on loyalty and pollution in connection with the induction of the model, although it would have been also possible to introduce these without correction, as originally assumed. In this regard it should be kept in mind that there may be differences in the implementation of EU directives in Icelandic legislation. For this reason, it was more difficult to make the decision governmently. It was specifically introduced to the Foreign Affairs Committee for its recording at the EEA Convention by a presentation on the EEA package where the contract was recorded. It is aimed at implementing the regulations of the specified directive with a change in the laws on loyalty and pollution. Recently, environmental and resource secretary for the bill of the material was recommended and addressed to the environment and transport committee. I'll draw the attention of the U.S. Congress to the fact that the bill contains laws not directly based on commitments that result from the EEA directive but, rather, go further. This will be discussed in the report on the current bill. The reason I'm stressing this, a respectable president, is not that I'm in no way measuring against the way this is done. Rather, it is important to me that we are aware that when ministers from the government go beyond the authority's directive. It has been dealt with, e.g. in the discussion of the EEA Treaty, that the EU contract is being attributed to something that our decisions at the National Assembly are being made. It is very important that we make a distinction between what we need to do about the contracts we have made and the agreement we have for the European Economic Area and what we decide to do for ourselves, which is only the political decision of the European government. A respectable president. I suggest that after this discussion, the proposal be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u27	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 214/2018, which recommend the inclusion of the 2016/97 and 2018/411 European Parliament directives and the 2016/97 Council Directives. Since there was no improvement on Directive 2016/97, a decision was made by the European Commission on a administrative notice on the part of Iceland. The 2016/97 Directive applies to insurance servers, insurance companies, their agencies and non-secures products. The aim of the directive is to protect the interests of those who receive services for buying or buying on insurance. The directive has additional requirements for information related to insurance companies, the rights to insurance and what constitutes good business practices. There are further rules on mutual recognition, government surveillance, and penalties. Directive 2018/411 only includes the conversion of the date of the aforementioned Directive 2016/97 i.e. From February 23, 2018 to October 1, 2018. A respectable president. The implementation of the 2016/97 Directive calls for changes in the insurance law. It is proposed that financial secretary will at the current legislature body provide a legal bill for the implementation of the directive. The bill will include a total law on the distribution of insurance that replaces the law of No. 32/2005, on the exchange of insurance insurance, however, the law of No. 30/2004, insurance deals. A respectable president. I suggest that after a discussion, the proposal be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u28	Madam President. I would like to recommend a interpretation of the state-of-the-art body for a state-of-the-art board. The definition itself is brief and then silent, with the permission of a president: ▪ The General concludes to hide the Minister of Justice in order to appoint a group of workers to produce a reliable version of the state and a budget for the costs of using the certificate. In the line of work, representatives of Iceland's National Records, Federal Protection, State Marshals, Navigator and Iceland are represented by the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. The task force then takes into account the work of specialists who are now working on a coordinated Norwegian conditional or landmarks by the Norwegian Minister. The Minister of Justice appoints the head of the task force. The Ministry pays expenses for the staff group and provides them with the facilities and necessary expert services. The Outfit shall submit their proposal to the Minister of Justice to no later than December 1, 2019, lead to the Governing Body of Jehovah's Witnesses. President. Although at first glance, I feel that the matter is extremely important. It is suggested to assign the Minister of Justice to appoint this task force, but the aim is to have the identification both material and electronic and available to all Icelandic citizens and citizens of other countries who live in Iceland who carry rights and obligations here. IDs are something we all use, and we all need to have in our personal business on the Internet and elsewhere, as well as on our travels, just in our daily lives. There is a significant movement on cases related to electronic countries around the world. This refers to the work of a team of specialists who are working on integrated Norwegian terms by the Norwegian Minister and are suggested to take into account the nature of this work. The case is presented by all the representatives of the National Council of Iceland as well as by the two groups of the Council of the United States that do not share it. This text from the report, in fact, applies to another landscape in the class ship at the high General Assembly. But at the very least, all representatives from the National Council of Iceland are here when the proposal is proposed. A respectable president. I'm gonna let me quote the report a little. These matters are well considered, and I'm not necessarily sure that all of us have been deeply involved. At least I hadn't done that before I started working on the case soon after I sat in the Generals. Security ID - whether it is a standard employee ID, such as passports and IDs, or electronic unemployable ID - plays an important role in modern society where there is security in business and various other relationships between people and companies and institutions. Factors requiring that people prove to themselves safely and inaccessible by means of electronic documents increase, and the frequent use of electronic documents in caring for people much requires that they be as safe as possible. In order to make full use of this certificate, they usually contain sensitive personal information that is important to those not available, and in all respects it is extremely important that identification is as reliable and safe as possible. President. We live in Iceland so well that the electronic identification we have, however, is exactly what is called behind, as reliable and reliable as possible. We live well in this regard. Here, three types of physical identification are generally accepted: passports, driver's licenses, and licenses. None of these certificates match the definition of a smartcard, but most new, safe, and multi-use certificates are made. A passport letter, however, is prepared with microchip that guards the picture of the passport holder's fingerprints. Iceland's national records supply passports and IDs, but local authorities are responsible for the publishing of driver's licenses. A national file also releases an Ice Key, which is a password associated with an individual social security number or legislator and can be used to interact online with a number of people and a national taxpayer rather than a web code that provides access to materials on the local website. President. This list of the three types of material documents generally accepted shows that they are published by public authorities, national and administrative records. An electronic ID is published by the I.D. ID Ehf. which is owned by financial companies and Simans. - I'll stop here and state that I haven't recently looked up the ownership or ownership file of ID ehf. but relevant to tenant management when proposal is submitted. - The electronic IDs are built in either a debet card or a SIM card. Alternatively, ID provides authentication keys that include. has been used for accessing Internet banks. An electronic ID of ehf. based on a so - called root ID that is essential for the publication of secure electronic documents. Since the spring of 2008, Iceland's root, which the Ministry of Economics and Economics, has published a so-called cross-linking state as "Ehf." uses, in turn, to end boundaries such as those used in electronic media and in public relationships. One security discharge on electronic documents and their safety, published in 2013, confirmed the safety of the electronic national state published on the basis of Iceland's subsystem, as well as the response of industrial and commercial ministers to the U.S. Svanís Svavarsdóttir's inquiry in Svandís. This is where, the president I came in earlier myself, that the electronic IDs we live in are pretty safe. That's where we live, where Iceland's root is pretty safe. The majority of the European Union's countries publish identity IDs in the form of a smart card. Some of these are valid travel conditions in the Schengen area and in many cases they are associated with electronic IDs. In some countries, such as Spain, the official person ID is also a driver's license. This is possible when smart cards are used that may store a variety of information. In some countries, such as Germany, it is mandatory to give personal identification and to present them to the authorities'request. For the publication of personal IDs in the European Union, as well as the legislation of Member States, the Regulation of the European Parliament and the Council (EU) No 37/2010: 910/2014 from 23 July 2014 on electronic authentication and trust services for electronic transactions on the internal market and the deletion of the 1999/93/EC Directive. A recent report by the European Police - Europol - evaluating the risks of serious and organized crime in a technological age draws attention to fraud and mismanagement among the main driving forces of organized crime in the continent, leading to the growth of this industry in recent European police assessments. Similar attitudes are reflected in the risk analysis of the European Commission - Frontex - in which people are constantly being pushed into the European border, which in some cases involves transport of enslaved people. These types of fractures are generally based on counterfeit and stolen documents, and their amount of traffic has increased in recent years. The report refers to the assessments and reports I read. In recent years, the importance of security and security demands has been given to many countries as a basis for improving the publication of personal IDs. For example, the Estonian Empire began. The 2002 multi-use electronic card is linked with an ID on a map. In 2005, Sweden began publishing cards on a smart card and has been offered in that country since then. In part, the decision made by the Swedish government on this issue was based on the lack of banks in the country to provide foreign citizens living in Sweden with the identification that these companies provided. Since 1990, Finnish governments have published documents that both Finnish citizens can obtain and citizens of other countries living in Finland. Norway is among the countries that have recently made changes in the publication of personal documents to meet the growing demand for them. In June 2015, the Council adopted a new certificate of identity (n.v., lovóóstnált identitet card) that hides, including in that the police have been given the responsibility of giving a reliable ID to Norwegian citizens and citizens of other countries living in Norway, where they have rights and obligations to governments. In the meantime, banks in Norway had produced a distribution of electronic documents to their clients, but the representatives of these companies indicated that they believe this was better established by the government, as it were government projects. This and a number of other matters considered by the Member States were published in a more detailed paper with a bill to legalize the identity of the Supreme Parliament. I encourage the Senate to study this report, but it is cited in the report on this matter. The Norwegian Minister's work has been done to establish a coordinated norse electronic or social security system. Such conditions would be economical for the inhabitants of the Northern countries and would violate the many administrative barriers between the Northern countries. A vast task has been set up in the Northern Council to eliminate administrative barriers between countries. The publication of secure government sources would simplify the coordination and coordination of norse electronic sources. It is important for people to be able to get reliable IDs because there is an opportunity to use rights, to enjoy services, and to communicate extensively with electronic media. Since this certificate always contains sensitive personal information, it is imperative that the full safety requirements be met. Transporters of this body of Congress feel that it is time to take a national version of this country to countersee and reorganize it with the aim of revealing the release of safe and electronic and material sources, and to operate the databases necessary for this purpose, to end this project with the basic security of the citizens and to the unequivocalness of the public. President. As I entered the beginning of my speech, this case has been brought before, in three other legislatures. Unfortunately, that has not been achieved. I sincerely hope that this will be a change now. It's a matter of concern to all of us. We all use IDs. There's a whole lot of shit going on in these cases. The report refers to the European Union, refers to the northern countries, and referred to Estonia. You could have that list much longer. We are living in a world in which more and more activities that were once in a material way have gone to the electronic world. This also applies to your certificate. Sadly, we haven't settled down properly and look at how we want this arrangement with us, how we want to participate in the present - day activities. The government already publishs three kinds of IDs, as I came in. There is nothing in harmony with the fact that material identification is published by the official but unregistered identification is made in the hands of someone else. I referred to this - and therefore, I encouraged a body of Congress to study a bill with a bill to legalize the identity of the Norwegian Parliament, and it is referred to in the report - that banks and financial companies in Norway, who handled the version of the ID, specifically turned to the government and asked them to accept it with the evidence that this project was better placed in the public end of a government project, such as other forms of identification, i.e. material ID. So it is consistent that the public version of the entire edition is on the hands of the public. A certificate will be electronic at some point, we can be pretty sure. They are already doing so today, and to some extent they are compatible. Those who are materially also have smart cards that are electronic. It is only natural for the public to do so, especially since such ideas are being developed within the Council of the North and elsewhere. I've had a meeting of these matters in the Northern Council where they're working on this. I have also had a meeting with the European representatives of the European Union on these matters, and I think that harmony in this will best be made by the government. President. This suggests that a group of people are being appointed to make suggestions on these matters. I sincerely hope that a body of Congress works hard and will continue to do so. As I've said before, it affects all of us. I suggest that the case be referred to a proper committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u29	Madam President. I hereby recommend a synonym to honor the memory of the Icelanders who died during World War II. We are 24 members of the council who are on this council arrangement, as shown in a threshing floor. 83. The conclusion is: ▪ The General concluded to hide the government from setting up a program to honor in a lasting way the memory of the Icelanders who died during World War II. The government has consulted with experts in the preparation of a strategy that will be conducted under the General Assembly in the form of a synonym no later than in April 2019.156. The article that follows the suggestion points out that it was submitted to a Council of 145, not to be granted. It's put here a little changed. Despite Iceland's lack of warfare, Iceland's population did not suffer the loss of the war that came with World War II. Sailors were essential to the land, having to carry out the land's produce and supply it with all kinds of necessities during the war years. Thus, the value and importance of marine exports grew immensely. At the same time, British and later U.S. military forces led to some aspects of their service and were important in the fight for Europe and the world's freedom. The importance of the Icelandic fleet, however, was not the least of the exports of the land. Thus, sailing in the seas around Iceland was frequent and can be attributed to the loss of Iceland's population during the war years to a conflict and attack on the Icelandic Armada, although some Icelandic ships have perished far from the coast of Iceland. With all Icelanders and allies, we owe a debt to those who staked their lives on these cruises perfectly aware of the risk. As suggested in the synod of this decree, the sacrifices of those who perished were great and are long ago time to bring honor to their memory permanently. There is evidence of the number of Icelanders who died during the war, although the total number depends on what is considered to be a fall from war. In some cases, there is a lack of information on why ships were killed. However, there is a theory of experts who have studied this history and the record. These include Þór Whitehead, who published Iceland's military project in 2002. Gunnar M. Magnúss compiled the Fortress of the North III, which was reassigned by changes and extensions in 1984 by Helgi Hauksson. It outlines all the Icelanders who died from war. From these sources, it can be concluded that at least 153 Icelanders died as a result of assault on ships they were on or a collision with torpedoes. It is an Icelandic ship and a foreign ship that had Icelandic sailors aboard. These are 0.13% of the population in this country compared with the population at the end of 1940 (121,474). In addition, 58 were killed on two ships, Swamp and Max Pemberton, which are likely to have been connected to torpedo conflicts. Those killed in Iceland during the war years are also expected to survive the hands of U.S. soldiers. Thus, the total number of Icelanders killed by war was 211 or 0.17% of the population by the end of 1940. It is interesting to examine these figures compared with the relative casualties of other nations. In contrast, as a proportion of total population, this is comparable to Dana's death and much more than Sweden's casualties. The United States lost about 0.2% of its total population during the war, Canada lost 0.4%, Britain lost 0.7%, and France 1.5%. As mentioned earlier, there is quite a good record of the Israelites who died of war. However, this has not been fully examined, and these figures may be altered in further research by scholars into the documented cause of death at this critical time. The report then publishes a list of those who died in the war years, and is unable to read it here, but it may take time to do so later. The report also shows that there are already several monuments of those who have died on individual ships, such as those killed by Falls and Gadofos. In some cases, foreign burial sites are marked specifically by the deaths of Iceland. At the docks, in Reykjavík, an overview of all the ships that have been lost at Icelanders, including the U.S.A. during the war. There are no permanent monuments to all the Icelanders listed above. Is it long time for them to have a lasting place in the history of the people? In what way this will best be done by the government, in consultation with experienced experts, e.g. in the field of verbs or museums. In many parts of Europe, for example, for example, in France, the monuments of the fallen have been built in the towns of the individual population. to churches or cemeterys. There has also been a way to build a statue or a work of art as a monument where the names of all those who died are listed, as is done on the Vietnam Memorial in Washington. Finally, many nations have come to embrace the annual special day of the remembrance of this people. Madam President. I hope that this body of Congress proposal, which has broad support for members of Congress, is behind 24 members of each body of members, being successful this year. I think it is appropriate that we do so because we are indebted to those who died, as well as to the families of those men and women who sacrificed their lives. After this discussion, I suggest that the synopsis proposal be referred to the General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u30	A respectable president. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for speaking this matter. It is a pleasure to see the wide range of support that exists in these very needs, such as in the case of cancer. A senator referred to him. We tend to do so, but I don't know why, more respected president, to forget that even though we have been and remain a nation without war, we made great sacrifices during World War II. No one should doubt that sailing resulted in the greatest loss of casualties. Those who participated in it and thus participated in helping to save Europe were fully aware of its risks. You don't have to talk to many people, just the people you know, and I'm specifically referring to the individuals who know the history and know the progress of things, to see that the knowledge of our contribution is truly there. We heard that, for example. when we had a memorial service in connection with the exercise of the Atlantic Community one year ago. Our foreign guests there specifically referred to this. It also attracts attention, as it were. A senator made a good decision that when you come to other countries whether east of the sea or west, these friends and our alliances honor the memory of the people who sacrificed their lives. I think we should do the same. What surprised me when I began working on these matters at the time was how much my ratio was compared to that of other nations. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason was here suggesting that there was a ratio similar to that of Danna but much higher than in Sweden and not relatively far from what the Americans lost. However, they were active participants in the war, at least since 1941, although their first action in the war was actually in Iceland and their first death near the coast of Iceland. It was six months before the Japanese invaded Pearl Harbor. A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for representing this case. Councilmen in this case. I'd think it'd be a good thing if you were. The General and Education Committee would work this case with this broad political support fast and that we would do what we should have done long ago, i.e. to honor the memory of the people who sacrificed their lives for a good cause. Of course, the sacrifice was enormous, especially for the families of these people. I agree with what. A senator's concern that especially for the families of these people is that it is important to complete this matter. I hope that we will succeed in doing so during this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u31	Madam President. I'd like to first commend myself. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason on this official day of commendation for bringing this proposal to the council to honor the memory of the Icelanders who died in World War II. Likewise, I commend all the members of the council who make this suggestion and, of course, myself. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] That's a good suggestion, and it's worth it. In fact, this is a lot of thought - provoking questions. No doubt many people are surprised to learn how many Icelanders died during World War II, as is suggested. There were at least 153 individuals who had a direct attack or a conflict with torpedoes and actually another 58. Most of them were killed in two catastrophes when the tugs of Swamp RE crashed in December 1941 and the tugs of Max Pemberton were killed in January 1944, and in both cases they are likely to have been hit by torpedoes in a storm. The total number of victims of war and conflict is estimated to be about 211 people, all of them in the prime of life, even infants and teenagers. It was, as noted, a high proportion of people in the country compared to other nations that even actively participated in the conflict. Hence, it was a great supply of blood for a small nation. Among those who lost their lives directly in connection with world peace, as shown in the work The Fortress of the North by Gunnar M. Magnúss, were eight women, mothers, children, and young people, passengers with the orders of Gadofos and Fallos, who suffered torpedoes. Yet, most of those who died during this terrible time of war were sailors on boarding a plane that was attacked or disturbed by the torpedo, as the report shows. Of course, Icelanders are wealthy fishermen, and while more factors are considered basic, this factor is vital and is deeply rooted among all the people of the country. The seaman's blood is drenched in many of the Icelanders. Three fishing ships from the west - because the case is related to me from my northwest district - i.e. On the same day, March 11, 1941, the Isthmus and the line-fisher, Peterey, were both inundated on the same day. In addition, the motorboat Holmstein IS was destroyed in May the same year. A total of 15 Westerners lost their lives in these attacks. Of course, most of them were from Reykjavík or the southwest corner, of Southnes. That's an enormous figure. Though many settlements had to be seen after many seamans in the hands of the sea in storms and accidents, the war was a very special phenomenon. Of course, those built on sea level knew the need to lose sailors in the sea. The building laws were obtained by cohesion. They built and built monuments of dead sailors around them, treating them with dignity in their own way. However, it is a worthy assignment to honor the memory of the Icelanders who became victims of the war, build a monument, or do so in other ways. It is our hope that there may be some warning and admonition about how foolish it is for mankind to fight one another in this way and sacrifice lives, young people who had nothing else to offer but a better future and better interests for their own people.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u32	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for this suggestion and for bringing her here, this is certainly a very good thing. He put it right here, and the report shows just how much this has had on Iceland and Iceland and probably natural to remember the sacrifices the Icelanders made in this war and their families. We know from abroad that there are beautiful memories. Those who sacrifice themselves in a war for their people are remembered in a dignified and dignified way. Hv. A senator spoke of the monument in Washington where Americans recall those who died in the Vietnam War. The names of everyone are written on a long wall, and this is a very impressive monument. I'm glad this proposal has come out. This is a very important project to remember the calamities that existed in Europe during this time and that our efforts to sacrifice. I just wanted to come on one thing that I'm wondering if should not have been in this suggestion as well. Last year on November 11, there were 100 years from the end of World War I. It was a war that lasted for four years and had nothing to do with it, a war that cost 16 million lives. It so happens that there were Western Icelanders who fought in that war and a considerable number of them were born in Iceland by young boys. They were suddenly in terrible situations, where nothing awaited them except cold death. They experienced horrible bloodshed, much suffering in the pits of the time when poison gas was used. There are very effective letters and sincerity from that time, from these young Icelanders, letters they write to their loved ones, describing the feelings and fears and loneliness they felt. That's very effective. They describe how war puts man in cruelty, wrath, and hatred, taking away the kindness and the sense of dignity. The picture faced those young boys was terrible before they went into the open grave. It was a common belief in World War I that it would bring an end to all wars, and that war would serve as a warning example to the future. Yet, everything else became, as we know it. So I'm going back to that suggestion, I think we should think about whether these young Icelanders should also remember in some way that fought during World War I. There are data on 1,245 Western Icelands involved in World War I, 989 of them fought for Canada and 256 for the U.S. Army. This includes: Reports from 14 Western nurses who engaged in this war and sacrificed their lives. There is a memorandum of soldiers, known as the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania, known as the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York, by the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of New York, U.S.A., by the Watch Tower Society of Jehovah's Witnesses. That book was published in Winnipeg, Canada, in 1923. They were killed in 144 Western Icelands during World War I. Of these, 1/3 were born in Iceland. In the war all, over 15 million people died. I wanted to draw attention to this, Mr. President. I think it's proper because this issue is discussed here in World War II and in memory of those who died there. So I hold on to the suggestion of integrity, and give particular pleasure to this proposal. There are a lot of good information in this suggestion. We see that fishermen have particularly sacrificed their lives in these disasters, the war that we all know. World War I is less discussed, although this milestone has been made last year, 100 years since the end of World War I, and now 100 years is a long time. Actually, if we think back, it is a short time and amazing how they were young people living here in Iceland who moved west in search of a better life filled with nationalism and who wanted to live with their new home and then go to war that few returned from. I think it is proper for us to remember them in some way. Perhaps it was a matter of separation, but I thought it was proper to mention it. The book I mentioned is a detailed discussion of the life and fate of those Western Icelanders who participated in the first world war, as I mentioned. Other than that, I thank you for this suggestion, and I want this talk chair to encourage that it is not proper to remember the young Icelanders who took part in World War I in some way.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u33	The president wants to inform you that a letter has been received from the secretary of state asking for an invitation every time to give a written answer to a petition for this request. 64, of the EU energy package, Community monitoring agencies and the EEA Convention, from Óli Björn Kárason.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u34	President. I recommend a bill to legalise the social law, No. 2/1995, with subsequent changes, of reimbursement. This bill was previously submitted to Council 148, but it did not succeed and is reassigned. Financial companies are among the enterprises in the community that are considered systematically important in the sense that a pot is broken in its business or if it is exposed to complications, it is likely to have considerable negative and confounding effects outside the community itself, even for society and economics all. Such enterprises have special rules over other enterprises, which include law no. 161/2002, about a financial firm. According to that law, there is even. Exploitation of special employment licenses and management plans for financial enterprises, increased requirements for the granting of a financial base is laid down, the management of property in such enterprises, the increased monitoring of the official organisations, the quality of which could be considered, and continued. In addition to financial law regulations, there are laws on the rights and responsibilities of financial companies in various other laws. When these protocols fail, there is a general law on financial companies, especially partner laws. Business companies are part-of-the-part enterprises, as is 13 st. track No. 161/2002. This includes some. that the union is an independent legal body separated from its owners, shareholders, the stockholders do not personally hold responsibility for business beyond the financial resources they originally submitted, stock stock stocks are handed over, and it is an independent government. The shareholders' meeting preferments for social management, social management governs the Commission and the manager employs other key personnel. That's how it works. Because of the importance of financial companies in the community and the delicateness of the management of these organisations to form for the arrival or possible intervention of owners in their business, the provision of financial companies is desirable as far as possible. This results from the main features of the earlier partner form that are thought to be limited to spending money from such partners to their shareholders. Such an arrangement is supported by two principles of the Society's right, by a so - called κliquidation principle, by a president's permission, which is said to protect in bankruptcy, and by a rule called in English, by the permission of a president, a high - quality supply of government principles, which is the priority of commercial demands. These principles imply that social property with limited responsibilities is reserved for the company's demands. In the same way, the surveys of the owners of the company on their funds are presented. The payment of such a partner to its owners, such as through remuneration or through purchases of its own stocks, should be legally supported, and should be carried out only if specific requirements are met, such as that the individual financial status of the company remains guaranteed, regardless of payment, and that the interests of the demands of the Society are not put at risk, despite the paying of funds to the owners. In the case of financial companies, which have permission to receive loans and other reimburse money from the public, the demands are not only those who have paid these companies traditionally or bought their bonds or short-term documents but also depositors. Investmentors in financial companies are usually in a position to protect their interests by negotiations with financial companies, including Because of the differences between the status and the size of the depositors individually and the overall financial enterprise, which they have committed to their depositors. This may be known by anyone who has tried to negotiate his mortgage on his bank. On the other hand, there may be other demands, such as creditors, who are often equally committed to financial management. Therefore, there is special reason to consider the interests and legal standing of the depositors as demands. It is safe to say that the most common amount of payment for shareholders is by means of the budget of the XII. section No. Obviously, 2/1995, on the partlines, is written in mind that it is at least A principle that cash is used in cash. Remuneration, not with cash, carries a measure of risk, beyond the payment of cash money, i.e. danger to the union itself, its demands, including depositors, lower shareholders and other interests, such as the tax authorities, because property may be taken from a partner and may be taken into the stock's possession at a price other than real value. This is the important point of this bill. In this context, it is important to remember that the written price of a social event is rarely the real value of the property. Also, internal and external prices are not guaranteed to be reliable confirmation of the real value of the property, since such assessments are based on specific criteria given on a one - sided basis at the meal, either of the person asking for the meal or of the people who perform the food. As a result, the conclusions drawn from prices are dependent on the criteria given to the eater, but the reality is often the fact that the factors may prove inaccurate or even false. It is worthy of our appreciation that there is an ecstatic conclusion, not necessarily a conclusion about the real value of the property. In addition to this prices, there are limits to negotiations that have not been made between two unconnected parties to the prices of the property, but such negotiations are often considered desirable and even essential essential essentials for the availability of normal property on a free market. In particular, if financial companies are largely foreign, they need to consider the systematic risks generated. In order to reduce their own currency risk of investing in Icelandic financial companies, it may be expected that they will insist on paying on foreign coins, other than financial contributions. Under these circumstances, the financial enterprise needs to publish in foreign currency, unless it has to have enough foreign coins in its funds. Such penalties quickly match the bank's currency and can weaken its own capital when the currency risk becomes more severe and if there are any significant fluctuations in the payment fee. In order to reduce the inflation of currency, the company needs to get his own property in foreign currency. In the case of banks, such assets are best found in the form of loans that are bigger than loans made to pay off interest. The demand for loans in foreign currency, of the magnitude required to make money out of system important financial companies, is mainly from the local companies who already have access to loans in foreign markets and even enjoy better than any Icelandic financial company can provide. This, of course, results in pressure on the managers of a financial enterprise to lend on more risky foreign currency projects, even to vulnerable individuals or companies. At the same time, holding to a large part of foreign sources is formed, and at the same time, the systematic risks I have been putting into light have been formed. Shareholders are closely linked to their owners. There is a special reason to ensure by law that enterprises are involved in a enterprise, subsidies and decision making are in line with what happens in general between non-connections, i.e. That the so - called long Arms are held in honor. For the above reasons, it is important that money is taken out of a group with limited responsibilities, especially financial contributions, and taken to owners. In terms of payment, these limitations can be avoided and, at the same time, avoid the risks I have been describing just by making recommendations in the law in a clear and conclusive way that when a financial enterprise is involved, money should always be paid in a company's payment, not in other ways. The value of cash does not depend on the limitations described above, and it is more assured by the advantages of the society itself and its demands, the depositors, the smaller shareholders and other stakeholders, and by financial support that money is paid with the company's pay money in the currency, rather than in any other form. This means all in short that this bill, if it succeeds, will prohibit financial companies from paying interest in the form of bonds or stocks in other enterprises or, yes, in a coin other than the financial compensation of the relevant enterprise. I've already traced the reasons. This is about limiting the risk of wrong merit estimates or of any system-based property that arise when prices differ from what is real. This is, naturally, extremely technical, but really important. I want to thank you. to the traders, Ágúst Ólafur the son of Ágústsson, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, Halldóra Mogensen, Jón Þór Ólafsson, the Ísleifsson of Isafas, and Þórðardóttir the daughter of Elísa Thor Thor Thor. That's what I hope this case goes through. This could make a big difference at some point in order to protect the interests of all the above - mentioned people who are involved in some way in a financial enterprise. According to this, I recommend that the case be referred to the Economic and Business Committee and then forward to the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u35	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a synopsis of a low tax state. The Conspiracy proposal was previously made at Council 147 and 148, but it was not completed and thus is reassigned. I'm going to come in on it a little later, since the case was submitted and until now something has happened here at the council that may not be necessary anymore, but then we can expect to correct it in the treatment of the committee. The proposal suggests that financial and economic ministers submit to the General Parliament a bill with a specified modification of the legislation on the low taxes state. First, the definition of low taxes is suggested to be extended so that it will not be confined to areas where income tax from the profits of the enterprise are less than two-thirds of the tax on which it would have been placed here, as per current 2 mgr. 57st. a income tax laws, no. 90/2003, but it also includes areas that regularly provide European governments not the necessary information for the implementation of tax legislation. Tax sea is often used for the sake of the so - called tax tax tax returns, but more often, to hide possessions and income. It is reasonable that the definition of low taxes, and the right effects to which it is bound, also include the new tax ornaments. Second, a minister is suggested to publish a guide list of state and jurisdiction that are likely to conform to the definition of low taxes. This was stated before 7 mg. 57st. a Treat on income tax that a minister published a list of countries and regions as taxation according to this article. In December 2010, the Ministry of Economics published such a list, but they noted that he [registered] neither binding nor exhaustively included where the final tax rate of the partners, funds, or institutions that [had] a tax entitlement, [reputed] only after a careful consideration of the tax authorities's legal authorities. The orders were dismissed by law No. 45/2013 with the reference that the list could not be binding or exhaustive, since the final tax rate of the person was not available until after the government's transfer. In view of this, it is not suggested that the minister published the final list of low taxes. Clearly, though, some areas are more likely than others to fall to the definition and are useful for taxpayers and the public to have information about them. It is suggested that the minister publish a guide list of them. Third, it is suggested that direct and indirect segregation should be reported to the tax authorities in the low tax countries. In 1st. 90. gt. law on income taxes says that in tax returns, taxpayers should report the relevant factors of tax burden, including property, and creditors in low tax countries should provide a special report to the taxpayers in the low taxes area. However, tax returns are reported only at the end of the year. By measuring for a report of direct and indirect ownership departments in the low taxes state, it is easier for the tax authorities to recognize the situation at one time. It would move closer to the time of life. This should facilitate the tax control, which is particularly important in low taxes. For example, it is not possible to buy into something at the beginning of the year, get out of it just before the end of the year, and thus escape the actual announcement of the praxize. Fourth, it is suggested that a special check fee should be paid in the state funds due to direct and indirect ownership share in legislation in low taxes. Such segregation is accompanied by the inevitable need for much and complex tax control. It is more natural for the individual to have expenses for this than for the general taxpayers. I told you in the beginning it might be. to some extent the word has become out of date because of current treatment issues at the council right now. - Perhaps it is proper to state that my associate in the case consists of Leví Gunnarsson's son, Halldóra Mogensen, Jón Þór Ólafsson, and Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir. There are cases, and even a financial and business bill at this time that takes at least two of these points, i.e. On the basis of the reporting protocols and on the other hand, dilation of what states are defined as low taxes. The exact mechanism for this development will be established and made known. However, it is good to have a financial and business committee take care of this, and look at how we can set this off, and particularly in view of the tremendous need that this statement is urgent that we take up all the government's legal requirements in general and consider what surveillance and real service to a certain party are costing money and how much it costs real value. I have, for example. big faith in the fact that the cost of documenting a new company is not close to the 135,000. which people are paying for, but the cost of observing people's property in taxes is really considerably greater than that of 0K. which they're paying for today. To this end, I suggest that the case be referred to the Economic and Business Committee so that we can cross it there and then in the second round.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u36	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of national payment on the future of the city of Reykjavík airport. With me, I've got 15 o'clock. Councilmen at the proposal, which sounds like: ▪ The General concludes that there will be a national payment to see if the airport and the centre of national and medical flights remain in the Reykjavík Water Haze. The following question will be raised in the National Court: Would you like the airport and the centre of national, educational, and medical flights to remain in Reykjavík until another equally good or better option is ready for use? ▪ - This question answers with a yes or no. The proposal suggests that comparable suggestions were offered at 145, 146, and 148 C.E. The proposal assumes that a national agreement will take place on the future of the city's Reykjavík airport. Its objective is to give the nation an opportunity to express their thoughts on the subject and to influence where the airport and the center of an international flight and a medical flight will be in the predictable future, including the future. with regard to national interests. Clearly, public interest in transport within the country is a major factor, and the location of the airport and the international centres are very important in this regard. The airport plays a very important safety role for the public in the country because of a medical and emergency flight, as well as a reserve airport. Then the airport plays a very important role in the national public defense system. You can further read on the importance of the safety role of the Reykjavík International Airport in a report written to the former air chief, Þorgeir Pálsson, for the National Transport Service last year, the role of the Reykjavík International Airport in the security system of the country. The location of the airport has been controversial for some time. Following trial of the Supreme Court of June 9, 2016, No. 268/2016 was made mandatory in closing the northeastern/southwestern airport in accordance with the agreement of the then national secretary and mayor in Reykjavík from 2013 onward. Has a secure runway now been closed. Still, there is no room for the future position of the Reykjavík airport and its role as a future transport center. Reykjavík's main organization assumes that the airport will depart in stages after 2022. It is a possibility that the airport will, in effect, close when the north/south highway is closed to which Reykjavíkurburg is heading for 2022, i.e. after three years. In this regard, you will also need to look for a transport program for 2011-022, adopted by Council No. 48/140, it is assumed that the airport will be in Reykjavík until 2020, even if its location is not clearly established. This is shown in a paper with the proposal. In fact, we agreed on a travel program about a month ago and in the majority of the environment and transport committees are presented in a very clear way regarding the area of Reykjavík. I'll probably get to that later in the talk. Reykjavík's airport is an important and diverse stage in the urban and capital transport areas. The stadium is an indistinguishable center of national flight. It plays a key role. The airport is usually about 400,000 passengers each year, and the number of passengers has increased. Part of the trip is to attend urgent medical services in the capital area. The airport plays a key role in a medical and emergency flight which has to do with the public's urgent safety concerns. He is unmistakably one of the main links between the region outside the southwest corner, with the Hospital. By 2017, there were 799 Myst Flights in a country that had 849 patients, but a number of them were also taken to a hospital plane with the Land Guard helicopters. On it. One year 733 patients were taken in hospital flights around Reykjavík on Mybet planes from Reykjavík, 219 to Reykjavík, 514 patients. Added to these figures are the use of emergency transport to the sheep's helicopters. Last year, 138 individuals were taken in a medical flight to Reykjavík, with members of the National Reservation Guard. It can be estimated that 85% of the air transports have medical planes and about 15% of the air carriers. Governments have established official health policy that there will be only one high - tech hospital at the Reykjavík Circle Road, near the airport. Thus, transport between airport and hospital is very important. The airport also plays a key role in the linking of the country to public infrastructure and important public institutions, most of which are located in the capital area, as well as in general trades and services. The airport is also an important center of educational flights, surveillance and search and rescue flights, and an important reserve airport for the Cheflavour Airport. At that time, the airport has an ever greater role in the development of ever-growing tourism, and there are opportunities to spread more of the country through the airport. All of the above factors, as well as general economy resulting from internal flying strength, including with respect to environmental and security factors, the importance and nature of the airport being in the Hydromese so that it can properly function so that all the people of the country have access to the capital. An internal Ministry report on a social analysis of the future of the national flight of 2014 shows that there is likely to be a high impact in national flights, and may not be acceptable if it is transferred from Reykjavík, e.g. To Keflavík Airport. Thus, it is essential for effective domestic flights in Iceland to have the centre of national flight in Reykjavík and thus closely associated with the service of the country to its capital. The report also shows that domestic flight is economicly profitable and that national benefit from this time of 40 years is about 70 billion. value of 2013 In the opinion of the General Assembly that a public and secret national agreement should be held on a matter or a law code applies to the implementation of national regulations, No. 91/2010, and the conclusion is such a vote from the counselor. All reasonable evidence is drawn toward maintaining the airport and the home of an Equatorial aircraft, but if there is some change, it is necessary that the entire nation be brought to that decision in a direct and democratic way. I'm not going to extend this more now, but I'm just hoping to get a good and material discussion on the subject. Of course, there could be a lot of talk over this subject for a long time, but I'm going to make it work.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u37	President. I have to admit that this is the most peculiar proposal I've seen in this chamber, and I've been observing the council for a long time, even though I haven't been sitting here for a very long time. This is a suggestion to ask a national bill whether people want an airport to be here with everything that follows, until another equally good or better option is ready for use. Mr. President. What else is available? It's what it is. A senator to move the airport for a while until another equally good or better comes along? I thought the Independence Party cared about how to manage money. So I ask: How much will this proposal cost, which is about not asking about anything? I'm not the only one with national regulations. It's nice to ask the people. Should we ask the nation if we should place patient helicopters in many parts of the country? You want us to ask the people about Funeral Channel? Why don't we ask the people about the birthplace in the Western Islands? All of these are national matters, and the art is almost inaccessible. We can have a bit of fun here until spring, talking about possible national pay if these are the criteria for a proposal at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u38	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. It's about the other way around. to protect the current position in the area of the Reykjavík airport. Not long ago, one of the three runways was closed. It was not done with any safety benefit in mind, as shown in the reply of the mayor of the Morning Press of December. in which he declared that the reason for security was not what men were thinking when the third circuit was closed. That's exactly what it is, because it's a basic safety factor in this country, e.g. To get to Land Hospital.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u39	Medical helicopters.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u40	- Yeah, it's gonna take more discussion if you really plan to talk about a patient plane with a hospital chopper and think that's the solution to all cases. Then we have quite a few years left in this discussion to deepen it here at the General Hall. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u41	President. Then let's go to national law order where we're going to put airports in many parts of the country where the medical flight can be on this side, so we don't even have to drive long distances to the airport on the other side. Here we are at the great General Assembly, offering a national fee to take the organizational authority from a local community. Again: Why don't we just go down that street, have a national bill on the challenger's organization, sound in the Akureyri Airport? There are some controversial issues that some claim to be economic practical, where it is very easy to apply exactly the same reasoning as here. But so far, we have respected the switch between various power levels, between two power ladders, the legislatator, and then team members. I'm asking why. A senator, an ex-communicator, how he would have felt in the local government of Akureyri if we had been here discussing a national bill of some planning on the Akureyri trade.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u42	Mr. President. Here's the thing. We obviously don't have the same place, we have monuments that are present today about shutting down and having closed partly already. We're not talking about new buildings or anything else. And if you're going to have this language, you know, talking about it in a similar way, like a rough. A senator described, I think we need to take a much deeper material discussion about the issues involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u43	Are you pulling the motion back?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u44	No, I'm talking about trying to get deeper discussions at the council on issues related to these things. Thus, Whether in the case of premature, cardiac, or neurosurgent surgery, any of the most difficult measures being performed in this country, are handled by the Land's National Institute of College. Then it's about bringing the people here. [[The president calls.]] So I don't think it's a good language to compare it, like the other cases. A senator took just moments ago. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u45	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the review of this synonym's declaration of national pay. Now it is true that the one we read here is an extremely high level of national pay, so complete. I'm very close to the fact that we're promoting democracy in this country, but I have to say and say it with force. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Francis, Óttarsson Proppér's son, that I don't quite understand the question as well as the question. A senator wants to pronounce, which is: ▪ Do you know that the airport and the centre of national, educational, and medical flights will remain in Reykjavík until another equally good or better option is ready for use? I'd like to ask my previous question. Senator: Would he like to move the center of a medical flight from Akureyri, which is now the center, to Reykjavík, if the result is positive, if the people say yes to this question? [[The president calls.]] Wants to play. Is that what a senator will be, or will it be just part a counselor?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u46	Mr. President. Maybe a what? A senator better explained to me what it means. I don't see how these two cases relate to the airport in the capital area or in Reykjavík and then in the country's medical flight. The reason for a medical flight... [[Up front.]] Yeah, it's about getting people to Reykjavík. I'm not talking about it in this report to take the hospital flight to Reykjavík. The reason for the regional center in Akureyri is geographic, so it is estimated that in general people are quick to travel far and wide across the country from that location. The choice is made so that it is clear. It's not being connected specifically. The reason for the question is that it is not merely asking whether the course should be in Reykjavík or not, is that it is trying to negotiate, beyond agreement, you might think that until it is as good or as better to be held in Reykjavík. That's why the wording's about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u47	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, however, did not cause the situation to become the center of a medical flight today in Akureyri. A senator is suggesting that the Allied Council agree to ask the following question to the nation: Do you want an airport and a center of national, national, and medical air traffic - to remain in the central center of hospital air pollution in Reykjavík? This time the hospital's center is not in Reykjavík. Central Station is in Akureyri. That's what I'm talking about. A senator wishing that the people of the country would choose to be the centre of an international hospital flight from Akureyri to Reykjavík? That's just the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u48	Mr. President. One day I would have called this a spade. [[Up front.]] If it's really about this... I already said that. The motion isn't about transporting the hospital center of the plane in Akureyri... [[That's the question.]] Yes, that's just how it can be interpreted. But that's not the plan. That's what I'm saying... [[The question is said like that.]] Is this the main point of the matter materially?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u49	No, that's the question. I...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u50	I've already said that now for the second time...
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u51	President wishes that the senators are not in conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u52	Hv. Senator. There is no particular thought of moving the disease to Reykjavík. I also came to that in the first answer, so it's at least absolutely clear now what is happening in that material discussion, hopefully.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u53	A respectable president. To begin with, I think we all agree on the importance of our transportation to Reykjavík. These are the ways we can reach that goal. I'd like to ask the senator in two things in my previous answer, one inconsistency between the proposal, which speaks of finding no alternative for the airport, and the other on the other hand, where he says that the airport needs to be in the watermy so that he can properly care for his role. How is that misleading message? However, I would like to ask, by permission of the president's permission, to read the greater part of the Convention here in Reykjavík: The safety of the Reykjavík airport will be secure while preparing a new airport in the vicinity of the city. What adds to the suggestion of trouble. A senator with the covenant of the majority of the people here in Reykjavík?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u54	Mr. President. Thanks for the answer. Maybe that's why. A senator, that there are many agreements that have been made in recent years, as when it was agreed that there would be peace on the affairs of the city of Reykjavík airport during the night of the Rackk Committee. It was never like that. August was a new shared organization in Reykjavík for Watermelon six or eight weeks after the agreed agreement. Could it be that there is a lack of confidence in the way people have handled the matter in recent years, just in Reykjavík? There have been some findings, e.g. As I pointed out in the preceding discussion, the national flight security issues and other security issues have not been included in the work of Reykjavíkurburg in recent years, as mentioned in an interview with the mayor of the Morning newspaper of December. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u55	A respectable president. I thank a senator for pointing out that people often don't agree because I think there's a problem on both sides of this matter. Of course, I don't have to work in the Department of Transport to find the next steps, a new airport to replace the Hydromycin field. If the senator knows better, I'd like to hear it because there's a basis, for example. The majority of the council meetings of the mayor that the secretary of transportation is doing that work. The more part-relevant opinions of the environment and transport committee, when we supplied the transport programme here, regretably, do not reflect the fact that this work is being done. Here are ideas that other national regulations that could be taken into consideration if this example was set. I'd like to mention a few more. How would the senator feel that we were paying a national law on a road through the Forest of Chets? Or is it that rural areas in the East that are studying together are united? Why don't we let the people decide? Or should we pay national rules on the equation? It might get rid of such suggestions.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u56	Mr. President. I've discussed it in the past at the General Assembly that there is good reason to consider that we begin taking up laws and regulations in Iceland, doing so in a manner similar to that in Europe, as is the case with the government's security interest in society, a global interest in security. That is how it is in Sweden, as it is called, the main fortresses, bridges, railroads, electrical power transport, and such factors, the importance of airports and other factors under the administration of the state. This is done all over Europe, and I think there's a good reason - exactly like what happened. In this case, a senator points to the area of Reykjavík, with the Forest of Chets, by means of electrical transport systems throughout the country, especially in the north, we have been in a position with that issue for a very long time - to discuss it here at the General Assembly and to discuss these matters, on the main security issues of the community. This is one of the issues that should agree with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u57	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for his history and the importance of this matter. The discussion here goes a little bit into the organizational matters and whether they're taking over the planning of my rural society, which I agree is a very delicate matter and needs to be handled carefully. That's why I wanted to ask you why. A senator whether he has anything to do with his long career in this case established the role of the capital as its capital and whether he has something to do with the organizational situation. Here is the government, and the capital has some obligation as a capital. Can it be part of the obligation to take note of the needs of the region that needs to be served here, to the national capital? So natural is the climate involved in the same thing, and maybe it can come into it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u58	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. That's exactly what the capital family is, and you can't cross-examine those who ask a man from a pont. I think that's a very good discussion. Senators should be here. What are the duties of the capital, with everything it receives, by being a capital city for the whole country? It's just a fine discussion, but it's very difficult to take, and I've noticed that in the past many years, there has been no special desire for the city authorities to discuss it. But such discussions are entitled to be taken into consideration. I agree with what happened. A senator is inquiring about that. Perhaps we can take a little further to the point where the discussion will soon be taken.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u59	A respectable president. Everything else. In many cases, when we discuss the area of Reykjavík, we are told whether it should be not merely to transport the entire international flight to Keflavík, where the flight is and everything else. I don't want to be in touch with this discussion. Rather, I want to say that it is important, as in the council proposal, to have the centre of an international airport in Reykjavík, and it's important to have a reserve airport and so on. However, would it not only strengthen each other if an international flight were to be built at the Cheflavour Airport, where the largest portal is into the country? There are more than 80 of these which could be marketed in the country if this were e.g. Inland flights directly from Cheflavík to major tourist areas throughout the country to distribute the tourists. They will be able to take the flight to the capital and examine it and use public transportation to return to Cheflavík and fly out again.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u60	Mr. President. It's just the best thing to do is to fly both from Cheflavík and Reykjavík's airport around the country. There have been experiments in recent years to fly right from Keflavík Airport directly to Akureyri, linking the international flight. It's just that things haven't gone too well. The service group report released us at the beginning of December on the construction of the airports, and there is one suggestion that customs authorities and Istavia work together on how to take care of this. It could be some kind of aggressor, but in general, this flight has been very difficult. In recent years, the reports that have been carried out at Reykjavíkurveils suggest that if e.g. The flight from Reykjavík to Cheflavík would reduce it by 30,40%, and in reality, all of us would have the basis for it as we know it today. I'm just going to mention, in a few seconds, that the Department of Transport is looking at a new airport at the Whale test, so I'll answer a question from now on. [[The president calls.]] That's what's going on, they've been looking at other options, so they say.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u61	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Njáll of Trausti, Friðbertsson, for the contributions of the case. This in itself is not the first time we ever had. A senator has had a word about this matter in town government, many times over the years, and we may now be able to get together on books. But I notice it, and it's a pleasure, to what it is. A senator has only moved on the matter. The first council proposal he made at the 146th Congress was not on that notice at the end if there was a better option. And then he has brought it in, showing that something is approaching one another. This is good, for we cannot stand for decades in the pits in which we try to set up some suspected national and capital interests. It's just too expensive. This could eventually make the airport unusable where it is, or where possible, before reexamining a new option. There are two reasons why I do not participate in this synopsis proposal. Of course, as a member of the country, I carry just as much of the country's best interests as possible. Senator, but I want to approach things differently. I want to get close to the future. I want to approach her with more peace. First of all, I believe that the current form and function of the city's airport will be in the present form and when it is not a better option or as good. That's not the last issue we've had. I agree, and I don't know any better than the mayor of Reykjavík had participated in these committees, the Rackham Committee, and others. Second, it is simply not available to be paid off because it is being promised to the sleeve. If the people say yes, what will they do? Then the next step must be taken if this is to be carried out, and it is likely that, according to what we would like to call it, the capital. Hv. A senator is naturally just turning things on his head and starting at the wrong end. Because he correctly speaks of Swedish ◯riksintsvestens, which has a sub-mate. Trains, lines, and even airports, are worth the discussion and something we can take here in the conference hall, whether the agency should be in a different way than it is now, whether or not we should part of which lines pass through the Valley of Hörg, through the Eyjafjond, where the airports should be, whether in Reykjavík or elsewhere, etc. First, though, we need to have that discussion. Senator, before making such a suggestion. I think that a lot of powder should be spent trying to blow into work finding the current Reykjavíkur airport of the future and any other place. But this is not because I live across the country or against Akureyri for nearly 54 years. No, that's because I love the country. I think we can take a step there that made it possible to attract people more easily, foreign tourists, to the country, because I think tourism in the country is an unscrupulous opportunity for profit and growth. I am convinced that there will eventually be a place that meets adequate wishes and requirements for all of us, those who live in the country and have to attend here cultural life, administration, hospitals and school, but also the demand for a mental, sustainable capital area. Politicians have somehow become obsessed with ever going into the car's hood if they're going to drive something, instead of trying rather to shape a policy where to go. We should be discussing what should be the preferred rate on the flight to the capital, how desirable it would be to take a long flight and how much time it might cost. Then engineers, planning experts, and others, of course, would have to decide at the end where the course would be. That's the technical output. Although we make a decision to build a national hospital, we are not always on the construction program. I also think there are many factors that move us to take this matter seriously before it is too late. One of these is the natural development of cities that we have been looking at over the centuries. In the 20th century, something unexpected and unpleasant happens to cities. We'll get private cars. The private car is not just bad because it is driven by fossil fuels, and it does not solve everything by going to electricity. The private car's failures are just as physical as its motility, i.e. People can live in Kópavogi, go to a West Side soccer game, and shop in Kjalarnesi, and all settlements will be greater. In the 20th century, we see cities organized like the American automobile city, which is based on classification and separation that call for more and more, larger and more expensive traffic initiatives, which are resistant to climate pressure and poor living. Recipes are now spoken of as being made up of the European Convention on Reconstitution. That's where we're supposed to go. We need to think: How can the capital city develop for decades? Because it is a misunderstanding that only the capital interests are involved - just as capital citizens benefit from the strong areas of the country, some of them catch fish, others represent agricultural production, and other important things, the country also needs a much more powerful capital. For good reason, this service was put down centrally in a land as small as Iceland. In order to own first-class university, first-class hospitals, and first-class art agencies, we simply had to share this with ourselves. We are to focus now on taking a positive approach and finding a solution that we can all unite in, i.e. making it possible for the capital to be sustainable and environmentally friendly at the same time as we, who live in the country and have to attend the things I spoke about earlier, may be easy to access. I have to, Mr. President, just at the end of this call to mention something else that will prompt us to resolve the situation together, which is the climate, the biggest and most important group we will ever face in the next few years and decades, possibly. The fact is that by 2050, half of the world's population live in cities. Today, over 70% of all Icelanders live in urban areas and cities. We simply spend most of the time organizing urban areas in an environmentally friendly manner, and by means of action, we have the best results in climate change. I'm going to finish reading from an article by Róbert Guðfinnsson, an entrepreneur - I'm going to let me call him even a poet - from Siglusar, he's done wonderful things there. He wrote in October 2016 about this very matter in which he runs the nation's industry and the possibilities we face and what we should do. By permission of Mr. President: The conclusion is that a direct flight from an international airport with a powerful domestic flight will ensure the best interests of tourism in the country. With a crossfly to the shore, opportunities to sell their destinations to my beauty are increasing. We must learn to view this country as the only resource we should use in a reasonable way. I'm going to make those words my way. You see, I don't think we're in some kind of defense struggle, like a dog. A senator in his depression seems to be considered. We can move forward, and we can find a solution that is better than the present. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u62	Mr. President. Yeah, well, you're back in the town council of Akureyri. This all sounds familiar. I've been hearing it for years, in many speeches, that discussions about the city area of Reykjavík revolved around a densely populated area. I'm just talking about connecting the country together as a whole. This proposal and the presentation you have had for many years in this subject is about securing the state of the field. Well, there's a lot of reconciliation that comes out there when you talk about as good or as good an alternative, i.e. ensuring this status at least Until then, so as not to follow the way that has been done in recent years, where there is constant cutting, as well as the third highway, the emergency route so called, the 11 acres [11 ha] of cut - off and all that has been done, all that has been done, without holding the community's security interest. This process is extremely important. That's why we're what we're at. Clearly, a senator is not in the same place during the discussion of this matter. I'm talking about defending the state of the field until it's as good or as better an option, instead of talking about dense development or other such things at the same time, such as coursing. A senator is doing. There's the sky and the sea apart. Certain advantages are being considered today, qualities that seem to be much more expensive than you have heard before and the latest numbers you have heard, such as the Whale test. We're good. I'm for the tourism. To this day, the international flight is about 151⁄20% of those using it are foreign tourists. So why don't we stop flying just for 10 to15% of foreign tourists and beat down the Icelanders who have to take advantage of the flight from day to day? Climate has been discussed. The climate is less affected by having the current flight as it is than by sending people e.g. with a car. This has been noted in the discussion, in a discussion of the transport plan, and many times earlier in this discussion. That's where we're headed, i.e. to keep the current state of the field, if this is to be about the climate.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u63	Mr. President. I hope so. A senator does not always put forth the habit of going out of the way. I'm not just talking about edification or climate. I'm talking about this case in the big context. It's not just something about people for now and then, it affects other things, and we have to look to the future. I agree that we should connect parts of the country. And as Róbert Guðfinnsson stated in this article, I am aware that it is better for the country to find a good airport park in the vicinity of Reykjavík and be able to connect directly to international flights, instead of today, to drive from Cheflavík and to Reykjavík, or that we, e.g. From Akureyri, before we go abroad, we have to stay in Reykjavík. I agree with what. A senator that's supposed to be there until another release, and everyone has heard me say it is, councilmen and others. But I don't want to hear it any less. Because he mentioned the town council earlier, it took considerable favor to drag him to the place where he is now because when he first came here and discussed this case, this exact location was the beginning and end of everything that was to be considered. In case of a moment. A senator will challenge it only to look up a similar council proposal from the 146th Parliament. A senator is not in a position to talk about until another as good or better option has arrived. Rather, he simply says ◯Reggas airport ◯ and exposes himself so slightly in his report, he probably forgot to update it. But this is a serious matter, and it is best described when the most funny thing at the annual wedding is about the meaningless debate between couples about the airports without trying to provide some evidence for their case. I think that by carrying out the work of communications groups by the Department of Transport, we have the possibility of making peace that everyone in this room can be happy with, better for the city and better for us citizens of the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u64	Mr. President. So we are learning the historical context. Hv. A senator agrees with me to protect the current Reykjavík airport situation, as it is, until it is as good or as better. That's what the suggestion is about. It is unacceptable that humans can carry on as has been in recent years in this regard. All I can see is what I can see. A senator has come to the same place as me in this matter, to defend the state of the field until it is as good or as better. I'm all right with your depression, huh? A senator mentioned it earlier, as though I have not experienced it particularly in the past. I don't know what he's going to do by calling another senator depressed or saying he's having depression, I don't quite understand what he's going through.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u65	Mr. President. I'm sorry that I accidentally talked about a serious form of illness, that's not what I meant, and I didn't mean it. I apologize for that. However, I think it's rather, fortunately, well. A senator who is getting closer and realizes that there may be a better option, at least as good as what's right now. But a few years ago, he did not think so at all. [[Up front.]] When we talk about protecting the airport while there's another equally good or better option, I simply think it's better to do it through conversation, through negotiations, by starting some further work on a local diagnosis, than by making it a Congress resolution that involves political indiscretion, like the president of a dog. A senator then called it that way, i.e. to promise people something but then, if you want to keep it, to change laws that are much more dramatic and difficult to deal with. He should have offered the bill first to take the organizational rights from his own communities. [[The president calls.]] Then he should have brought it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u66	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The son of Einarsson's Logi for his speech. There are two things I would like to come into his house. I understood his words in his talk that he wanted the airport nowhere out of the depths, even though he was in the trouble of seeking a place as good or better. Hv. A senator would correct me if I misunderstood his course. But I felt that this was quite clear, to the point. A senator would want a field out of the Hydromosis if any other option could be found. [[Foreground on:]] Do we not agree on that? [[Up front.]] Okay. Then there are the two questions. The second question is, Do not feel as good or as better, is why? A member of the council concluded that the water marshland continues to exist? The other question is, does it matter what the development of a new airport in a new location, as good or as better? Or it is a factor. A senator believes that there is a dissident in the identification of these interests?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u67	Mr. President. Thank you for your excellent question. I've thought it was obvious, and there's a little bit on the table that you can find as good or as better a solution as I think they're in the sights of the Minister's reports. I studied 35 years ago in architecture and planning, and I've been working on it ever since. My main interest is urban and urban planning and its development. I build this belief not just on intuition but on the exact evolution that takes place all around us, i.e. that cities are basically organic mechanism, some say that if aliens came down here, they would much more define cities as living things than individual humans. The seas are moving, the airports are moving, and the way of life. We may be there during the history of Iceland and the history of the capital that we really need to start thinking about the next steps. But then we also need, which I thought was boring. paritaprevir In the big context, Ramídi Friðbertsson waslittled, pondering over us. So I'll answer the second question. Of course, it doesn't matter what the cost is, but it also counts how the cost is calculated. If we just charge the cost of such a thing and do not force society into it, the number could be very high. I'm gonna take an example. Building in a national hospital, just like that. A senator interested in, costs as much as a business for two years. This may include a huge national advantage in making an animal effort if it produces secondary savings.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u68	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for pointing to the obvious arguments that the middle class tried to promote in the hospital case, but unfortunately, little was heard. Hv. A senator believes this, apparently, is part of the city's development history, that the airport is leaving the place where it is now. I need to be aware that our intuition and feelings are regularly leading us to their respective places, and I'm sure they're not just in the airport. Hv. A senator points to a report that there are other options. I'm asking if this is the Rackham report or if he's referring to something else. Then I want to tap another point. If an airline is not considered to be as good or better, does the senator accept at an airport in the Hydromur for a long time?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u69	First, let me mention this with the National Hospital. I was actually giving what. A senator's hope in life because, while we are building this necessary national hospital we are now living in, we can totally attack local selection within a few years. We will need to consider a new national hospital very quickly because of the way things are happening. That's exactly what I said. A senator, that I based it not just on intuition, but on knowledge, experience of others, etc. And I don't think about whether another solution will be found. A smokejanestown rush would, of course, completely change the benefits of what he is doing today. I've watched the Rackham report, yeah, yeah. A senator, and I pause at the Whale test, finds that an exciting option. I think we should pay more attention, and while everyone's supposed to be quite positive and determined to work together on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u70	A respectable president. Because of what? paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson used the wording earlier, if I recall correctly, the question of scrambling the organizational authority of a community, we can't agree on that, would we? A senator, that there are the interests, the interests of others and the wealth of those who are members of the department's planning force, I don't talk about if the project of that planning involves, for example. to believe that this is especially necessary because of convergence or viewpoints, that it needs to be built in the area where the airport, in some respects the national airport, is at? We have made the decisions here that to form the most advanced health care center is to go to Reykjavík, the capital city that is not to be found elsewhere. We have all the ministry here. We have every kind of government agency that citizens of the country need to come up with, beyond what the capital city needs to come out of the country. Can we not agree that this is just the kind of interests that can outweigh and enrich the interests involved? A senator called the organizational authority of a localmate?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u71	Mr. President. It is true that I used the word organizationalism, and I recall also saying organizational duties, which is probably a better word. I'm its spokesman. Senator, we're going to do a complete head-on and take a good look at some organizational matters on the land. This may well lead to some change in Sweden's direction. paritaprevir And Trausti Friðbertsson, of course, came in. This may involve fines, roads, road shorts, airports, and certain other things. But the purpose does not always sanctifies the occasion, and we first have to go through it without isolated intervention in the community. I can ask you an alternative question: Should we have a national bill on the shortcut of the road past the carburettor, which profits all citizens, but doesn't like the mix-ups? Why don't we let them have anything to do with it? Should we have national law on airlines through Akureyri, which are essential to transport energy between parts of the country, but is something that we have? paritaprevir Are you sure Trausti Friðbertsson will never be able to accept us? I don't think that no matter how noble a person's goals may be, a proposal must simply start at the right end. But I don't see reason to despair because I am so convinced in my own heart that a solution that can be found both myself and me. paritaprevir You're very pleased with Trausti Friðbertsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u72	A respectable president. You see, I believe that it is quite different about the transport issues here and the airport in Reykjavík than it is. The road around the Chets Forest, or perhaps abbreviated along the way by a carburetor and what another was named. You see, we've chosen a local tax card, so to speak, to have all the services I listed earlier in Reykjavík. And they shall come thither unto them for service, whether they will or will not: for she is not found elsewhere. This does not apply to Chets Forest, nor is it true of the carburettor. That is why I believe that there are other viewpoints about the organizational authority of Reykjavík and the influence of other citizens on it, especially on transportation to and from the city, but for example. about reconstituted or forestry. Can't we agree with that, please? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u73	Madam President. Of course, we live in a land of vast size and size, so we needed to maintain all our wonderful institutions, our university, our hospitals, our cultural institutions, to unite our powers. In fact, we are in a position similar to four, five other large countries around the world, Kuwait, Panama, Djibouti, and Mongolia. I think all the members of the council in this room agree that they need to be able to get people between themselves, and I'm glad that there's a wide agreement on looking at the possibility of a Scottish route. It is true that there are more interests in life because all the people of the country have access to Reykjavík than to Investose. That's what we're doing. A senator agrees. But at least it takes at least to start by making some kind of capital contract and discussing it and agree on it and/or changing its laws before making such a crazy concierge proposal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u74	Madam President. I'd like to say a few words about this synopsis proposal that we are discussing, about the future of the city of Reykjavík airport, to quote the headline of the Parliament's resolution. Rather, the suggestion may be about the location of the Reykjavík airport, not about whether an airport in the capital area will or will not be. He has to. This is natural peace, especially with the country's important interests in mind. With regard to the question raised in the motion, I do not make any comment. I would answer, and I have often answered, for I believe it is important that the airport be in the depths until there is another option, again taking into account these great national interests. The fact is, this is happening and has been doing it for a considerable time. There is in force a agreement between the government's representatives, Reykjavíkurburg and Icelanda Group, if I recall correctly, about domestic flights. It shows that they agree that the first available option for domestic flight is in the capital area and will be operated for the next year. There is no, I know, in the discussion about international flights to and from the capital area. This is not to say that unless people have something to care for and want to dust the public's eyes, they close their airports. They're talking about moving the airport in this area. The position needs to change, like many other things, when it comes to social development. I think, and I must say, sad to see our excellent local council members, especially the government's representatives, in this group, have so little understanding of the affairs of the capital that we actually bear. We cannot be screaming at the low level of housing, traffic weight, and lack of efficient public transportation, but we expect at the same time to prevent the introduction of land in the city's heart in a responsible way to address this problem and that at the same time, a solution and solidarity will be made available to new locations in an airway to the capital area. In addition, building in the Watermelon provides an invaluable opportunity for building up a center of knowledge, practically from the foundation, where there are now universities, high - tech companies, high - tech hospitals. This may result in the formation of a pot that attracts innovation, talented people from all over the world, who are built for malaria. That's what matters. This is not only important to capital citizens; it is important to the entire population; to the population of the country; to the people of the capital; to serve; to study; to recreation; and to work short and long - term. For this reason, it is essential that state and city work together in a very decisive way to identify domestic flights and from the capital, a new location that meets the requirements we make for such a journey. This is an agreement, Madam President, but there must be an agreement. In a matter of what. An official noted earlier that the Department of Transport had been developed for example. An assessment of the benefits of Whalesun. I would have found it interesting to see a suggestion that a council concluded that this work would be rushed so that uncertainty would be lifted. That would have been an upbuilding discussion, and we may have left it. Then I come back to the suggestion that's being discussed here. I said earlier that I could answer yes and that I had answered a positive question once and again. But then the problem - or perhaps it will become clearer. By permission of the president, the paper concluded: So it is strongly felt that the people will have the opportunity to express their thoughts on the matter, thus affecting the final conclusion of the matter that could be the case. Enrollment of organizational rights by law taking into account important political interests. This is where the dog might be buried. This small, modest Parliamentary decree for a national payment with a question already asked and answered is introduced into one of the largest recorded books in the history of the United States. In view of the list of carriers, especially the number of independent senators on paper, the sentence is now coming as Snorra camp leaps undeniably to the mind. However, the fact that none of their Council of Reykjavík is on a list brings no surprise. I would like to hear from them here during the discussion. In these matters, I feel that we can do better, and I think we should do better. The first step there for all of us would be to unite in keeping with the promise to seek solutions for a new place. It must mean, if we want to be reasonable, that we look for a solution until our relations are reached, but we do not promise a resolution and a fence of the current location.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u75	President. Just a quick question to ask. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín's Friðriksson, Friðrk's son, and I thank her for her speech. It is this point that the senator mentioned that the question had already been asked and answered. I wanted to know if she was there or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u76	Thank you. A senator resists. Among other things, I am referring, but primarily to the fact that those with the organizational authority go and the government, whether by the council or by the local government, in the capital area, have repeatedly declared that there is a search for a better advantage and a willingness to achieve this solidarity, and I believe that it answers that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u77	A respectable president. I'm just gonna be a short talk, you see, I'm on my way to a flight out of the Watermies. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I was beginning to feel a little stressed whether I could get it or not. [[Up front.]] I support this matter in itself, whether it needs to be corrected in some way or not. First and foremost, I support it from my security role. Over the years, when these matters have come up, I have read into what has been written about them. A recent essay written by Guðmundur Daði Guðlaugsson is entitled ◯The City of the People of All the Lands (U.S.A.) There he has a word - and - word analysis of what has been said about the Water demyelination site on the part of those who are either on or off - line. Ever since the land was taken possession - Britain built the field and handed it over to the government after war - some say that the State should have the organizational authority over the region. There have been differences, and surely there has been tremendous debates about the change in local choice. It costs a lot of money, I think, to make a new airport and it would have to happen at the same time, i.e. while they were building a new airport, if he was to be in the capital area, the other one would have to be on the run all the time. Then we'd be putting in an enormous amount of money on the part of the state and the city, I suppose. So it's a big deal. I know the matter, as far as I can tell, from what I've been able to relate to the field's ability in security and in the process and all the things that need to be in order. That's all I know of, i.e. of what pilots, et cetera. say about the field. It has made me feel that the discussion is quite balanced in that they consider the current location to be the best, and they do not consider the Whale test to fail to take over. It may need to be considered better. I agree with the 1st CDC on the security role of the Reykjavík airport. As noted above, this is the main stop in hospital flight. This is the center for the Hostage search and rescue flight, and for all security personnel on land and sea. This is a link point to places in the country that enable us to transport people, supplies, and other resources to and from the capital area, if natural disasters or other public defenses occur. Also, there is an interface line with the neighboring countries that can be used for the transportation and for the attention of important national security projects to move people from one country to another in less than three hours. This is a way of escape that could be used in the evacuation of the capital area, although we certainly hope that this will not happen. And if Keflavík's airport is closed for any reason - as the 1st of this case has pointed out, there has been a threat to the Cheflavor airport, and this has been shown through reviews to the Generals - is this court that accepts and has been said to be the best to do so. I really want the case to go through a professional discussion with the Committee, despite the fact that it might work as a pressure on the work that is going on finding a new place or checking it out. Despite the fact that the government or city is responsible for certain matters, there are some suggestions that should raise a subject or be a pressure force. I think it's one of those things. It is a question of whether this question should be followed or should it be followed? It is something that the committee will likely consider whether or not to be moved. As I read about the wording analysis, those who have added their weight to the scales in that debate are very eager to use the airport in distress. In itself, I don't know if it made a difference where he was -- I'll pick up a job and go to my home on weekends - in time and so on. First of all, I believe that the security of this question should be addressed for material treatment. We face the fact that the national hospital is being built up. In the year 2022, it is not far away. It's only been a few years until the airports are due to clear out. If we're going to try to build a new airport, I'm afraid it might take longer than that. So if people really want to make changes, which I don't in themselves, just so they say, it's safe to let their hands get out of their way. Of course, there are a lot of conflicting opinions, as we have seen here, within my movement on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u78	Madam President. This is an interesting proposal for the council arrangement that we are considering today, on the national bill for the future of the city of Reykjavík airport. It is equally interesting to see who made that suggestion. These are three members of the Superintendent, seven members of the Independence Party, two, three, four members of the Central Party, and one member of the left - handed movement of the left. Yeah, well, if these aren't six members of the Central Party, there are so many people in the Central Party that I had a hard time doing this. You wonder why this suggestion is presented at this point when a committee is working at the highest level. A secretary of transportation to the new location of the Reykjavík airport or to what will be in the city of Reykjavík. You think it's something special when you're working for the government. What's the suggestion? Yes, the General concluded that national pay will continue to be made to see if the airport and the centre of national and medical flights remain in the water marshes in Reykjavík. Period. Not to the future, not to temporary, but to stay. It means, "You stay cold." If you look at the words that are standing there, it's a suggestion. It has been added that the following question has been raised in this judicial fee: ▪ Do you know that the airport and the centre of national, educational, and medical flights will remain in Reykjavík until another equally good or better option is ready for use? - Yes or no. This question is not in harmony with the words in the first paragraph of this proposal, for it is merely talking about a temporary situation, while the committee is working, expected, and brings yet another result. There's no dispute that Reykjavíkur Airport is there now, it's not going to be shut down. No one's ever talked about the shutdown of Reykjavík's airport. It's been decided what to do. But it must go all the way too. I would like to encourage the movers to accompany the rest of us in the speed of the project, to continue the work that was started many years ago. It's been a decade since the Soviets chose Reykjavíkur Airport off at the vote 2001. That's just the way it was. And because of what? The first official has now requested a reply, I expect that he will begin to speak as an agent of unsupervised votes for that vote. But it was like that, though. We need to raise our domestic flight to the next level. [[Up front.]] We need to start raising our domestic flight to a level of adequate attention. But that's not the way it is now. When we were discussing a transport program for the Environment and Transport Committee before Christmas, it was found that a facility for teaching in the city of Reykjavík is extremely hard to deal with, in fact, a complete scan. This is especially so because, according to the committee, overnight flights are banned. It's not something you can do. Still, we live under the circumstances that we spend 24 hours a day in the year, but this is not because the airport is within the city market. It is now that the centre of a medical flight, as shown in my case earlier today, is in Akureyri, so the movers are suggesting that all the people of the country choose to be in Reykjavík and not in Akureyri. It is not that after a national bill has been made, those who put it in the hands of the voter can understand what they intend to hear. It's not like that. We must live by the conclusion. But then we come to the problem, which is that I think all the classes behind this proposal have no regard for national pay. It's just an accident. We've agreed on a new constitution, that was done in 2012, where the question was asked: Do you or do you not wish a document of governance to be submitted to a new constitution? And where is 2019? Do these groups intend to heed it? No, I can't hear you unless you don't mind. There is no respect for the outcome of the Rackham Committee, which resulted in 2015. It said that Whaleshawd was the best option. There is no respect for the Court's Court of the 2016 Supreme Court where it was said that the State was obliged to close the northeast/west airport. It's spoken as if it were just some personal decision taken in a city hall. That's not true. This is an agreement between the state and the company of Reykjavík City. The Supreme Court concluded this. Then there are no objectors who cannot come up here and pretend that national action is of no importance, a vote that took no importance to the smokers, a decision made by cross-cutting committees, and the results of cross-cutting committees, including all kinds of people in these committees, are irrelevant. Nor does it seem that it is of no importance to transporters that it is now mentioned. And what about the organization's organizational affairs? It seems that it is some sport for certain member of the country to speak down in Reykjavík, as if it were some poem for Icelanders to have a beautiful, splendid city, a lively city, and to build it up. The European Union has just in its policy of rural government level and community self-control that the organizational authority is one of the cornerstones of the community's own administrative rights to be respected. However, certain senators somehow allow themselves to speak, as if it were of no importance. Municipal communities are guaranteed to exercise self - control in the 78th gr. Constitutions that say that rural communities themselves control their affairs according to law. Then you have to ask: " Do the movers, perhaps, show no respect for the Republic of Iceland's constitution, as injured as they are today? We have to follow the law, Madam President. We have no choice. This is not the time for the building of the Coyotry to be built here today. We are not discussing the importance of structure, the importance of the city's growth, the importance of its environmental, economic, competitive, and all of that. That's not really a topic for discussion. There is a discussion that we can share at some point. Here we are talking about a completely defective synonym with 1st and 2 mgs. don't talk. Of course, it's rather embarrassing, but that's sometimes what happens at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. It is true that the prerogative of the New York Airport does not exist. This does not change the organizational arrangement of Reykjavíkurburg in its territory. This does not make any difference between the state and the city of Reykjavík for a certain course to be closed, northeast/southwest. It doesn't make any difference either that they're looking for another location for this airport. Let's just get together. That's what we're supposed to do so that we can build up our domestic flight, which I know is what we're going to do. The messenger of this proposal is very interested in. [[The president calls.]] I'll totally go with him to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u79	Madam President. Regarding the 2001 vote, keep in mind that such rules did not begin. Fewer were involved in that vote than was expected to be to become binding or adviser. They changed the rules afterwards. Syllables were virtually equal. I think a vote has been made between 200 and 300 votes. Above all, it was not followed the rules that men started with in the first place. It may be difficult to come up with a brief answer to the question. The basic premise of the case is that in the main organization of Reykjavík, it is assumed that in 2020, after three years, the north/south track will be closed. The story is in this way, for we have been dealing with this situation for a considerable time: Is it possible to trust that the city of Reykjavík will remain in this? Like a lot of snoozes. Senators have talked about it as if it would be cool to be there, but in the main group of Reykjavík City - and it hasn't been changed, it's been scheduled for three years - the north/south highway is expected to go. The sentence is from 2016, and the circuit was closed, the emergency track. It's done. It has been performed. Depending on the outcome of the Rackham Committee. You're wrong. A senator saying that it is not being done. Whales are being examined and the possibilities there are under way. That's what I'm talking about. A senator to consider at council that we act in a similar fashion as other European countries do in their security matters, to lay down the key and most important security interests of a community under the administrative authority of the State so that individual rural societys cannot counter key safety concerns? This is an experience that has been building up. That point was done in a large number of Europe's areas 203/430 years ago. [[The president calls.]] We are totally different from any other European nation, especially in northern Europe, in terms of safety concerns. That's a big, big point we have to start dealing with.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u80	Madam President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. It is true that Reykjavík's main organization expects north/south highway to be closed in 2024. You're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u81	2022.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u82	- Yeah, 2022. But I remind you that the mayor's Dagur Eggertsson Elegtsson has always been a member of the committees to find a better airport. He's a member of the Committee now. It is not as if the city of Reykjavík is not fully committed to that work all the time. What I'm more surprised about is the number of senators who are on the motion that then does not seem to be fully interested in that work. I'm a little worried about that. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Congress how you can understand that the government has a commission at the same time that the members of the board suggest something else. I think it shows that there's not a full mind behind it. With regard to the right to make a decision for national security and national interests, it may well be, but then we also need to examine the entire package. We have to look at climate issues. There are other factors we need to consider. Take, for example, the building of a large business. It can exert a strong negative influence on everyone, not just the local community. If so, we are talking about much more than just security or organizational matters. We are talking about much larger issues affecting the environment and the rest of the universe.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u83	Madam President. In 2013, 70,000 signatures gathered in four, five weeks at the world headquarters of the city of Reykjavík, which turned toward the airport, to protect the airport. It was then assumed in the contribution of the main planning tool that the north/south track would be deposed in 2016. That would have happened three years ago. The arrangement was then extending the life span of the north/southway by six years, to 2022. We now have three years of timing. This is a covenant proposal that the course should remain in its present position until it feels as good or as better. There are other benefits that are being pursued. So Reykjavíkurburg would bring some game, would it not be possible to revise the main organization so that the city would record this date, in 2022, making a major organizational change so that the city would want to resolve it? All of us who sit in this council hall know that there will be no new airport, ready, laid, built, in three years. It's a much longer process. But because of the historical context of the case, because things have developed in the past few years, and how they have been cut off, and kept being done against it, it would not be a declaration of harmony from the city to examine at least the possibility of extending to the main organization of the New York International Airport in Watermur, north/southway, and the whole field? Today, the North/Saint Railway leaves in 2022 and the entire 2024 course. This is the situation today. [[The president calls.]] This suggestion is about finding a solution, defending the situation so that it does not end badly.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u84	Madam President. Thank you. A senator later answers. I heard why. A senator says that this is a covenant proposal to allow the airport to stay while the meeting was as good or as better, but this proposal is not about it. [[Until there's as good or as good an alternative.]] [[Up front.]] The suggestion is to ask the people. What will you do if the people say no? So you're going to do it, aren't you? It's not a suggestion, it's a question of the people. You're making a national bill, you're not suggesting that we allow the airport to stay. You're asking a question. You cannot determine the conclusion until the question is presented and the answers come. Let's be honest with ourselves about what we're doing here. Is this a pact proposal to go to a national fee or to be subject to it, or is it expected that if more of the nation says no, the city's airport goes to: Well, this is just a perfunctory, we will take no note of it? Are we going to watch it again with the fine groups of Independence, High School, Central Party, and Left Green? Is that how it is? Let's keep this crystal clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u85	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir speech. I guess I missed just two minutes of a talk. So there is a possibility that a member of the body might have spoken even more clearly in that chapter. I just wanted to tie up a few things. The Senator spoke of the Supreme Court of the Court that fell in 2016, of the disappearance of an emergency course, which actually lays the foundation for the position now expressed in the capital area's main organization that the north/southway disappears on course 2022. Is it a sight? A senator says that the closing of the North/southway is at hand in 2022 according to the agreement that was not more comfortable than the Supreme Court? Contractants thus looked each with their own eyes on silver. - To refer to it as some marvelous basis for reconciliation? I can't help but push it aside. But I want to know why. A senator sees that the north/south track closes in 2022, which then harmonizes with the alleged-- well, that agreement, let's just call what it is -- what was done at the time. It was likely the fall of 2013. I would like to hear the senator's opinion on this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u86	Madam President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. It is clear that the senator missed part of my speech, as he noted, for I do not know how to speak here of the Supreme Court's judgment. I simply referred to it, as indicated in the synopsis proposal - and where it is. A senator is one of the movers I expect to have studied the report with the proposal - that following the Court's hearing from 9 July 2016, the Icelandic state was obliged to close the northeast/west airport in accordance with the agreement of the local Minister and the mayor of Reykjavík from 2013. This was a judgment hearing, and what I discussed with that judgment in my speech was that other talks given today, as well as in the case of individual senators, could be understood that the closing of this emergency path was some small project from within the council. My discussion of this judgment turned to the fact that it was not the quality project within the council. It was the Supreme Court. I'm inclined to follow the results that the Supreme Court finds out, whether I like it or not. The Supreme Court concluded that this runway was mandatory. It's not some decision that's made just like that. This is the judgment of the Supreme Court, and the state had to approach it.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u87	Madam President. The results of a court case were very much reduced in terms of negotiations. There was no consideration for safety or for any other aspect of the field. However, the requirement for closing the course is from Reykjavíkurburg. It's a personal decision. That's why I reiterate my question, which I didn't think was a good answer: Is the senator thinking that the north/south highway is closed in 2022? That's the question. Then, of course, I was going to, because I forgot in the previous answer, to refer to the Father's House, that the motioners have limited respect for Iceland's constitution. Such comments judge themselves. But the question is, Is it true? A senator on the north/southway shuts down in 2022?
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u88	Madam President. I thank the senator for his later answer. The one standing here is a senator, not a city councilman. That's why I can't make any claim on the part of Reykjavík. I have no such authority, and I reiterate what was stated in my first talk, that I know that the city of Reykjavík is now on a committee that is precisely on this subject, the future of the city of Reykjavík. [[Up front.]] I don't know that there has been any demand from Reykjavíkurburg that the airport be closed. I haven't heard anything of it. I think there's just some local speculative speculation at the Transporter's office if there's anything like that, because there's no evidence from the city authorities, unless it's less. I think we can be very calm about this, but again, I feel uncomfortable how many diplomats seem not to be able to keep their minds intact. A secretary of transportation who appointed this committee when they are actually going to counteract the potential conclusions made by the Committee. That's what worries me.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u89	Madam President. Here we will discuss a number of council members' proposal for national payment on the future of the city of Reykjavík airport. I must now say at the beginning of my speech that I find this suggestion evil. I don't see how the motion as presented really solves any matter, how it can cut any knots, or make any peace. I don't see it. On the other hand, I'm going to reveal a little secret to the United States and the United States that in itself I am reasonably content with having an airport in the water swamp, but I am totally willing to respect the administrative authority of Reykjavík and the rural society at all. I think it's very dangerous to go along with the lawgiver in this way that the city's planning or just a community of people usually does. I don't see it being successful. It would be much more important then to be part of some decision on such matters. Nor do I worry, as I have heard in many members of the council here, because Reykjavíkurburg makes some dramatic decision that is totally contrary to the nation's interests. What pessimism is that? Do people really think that Reykjavíkurburg would be the point of making such a decision, in the big context? I don't think so. In terms of where the airport is, I have no objection to the location, although I have prepared for the northern/southway route for about 20 years, which is just brilliantly pleasant. That's not my problem. However, I understand the concern of Reykjavíkurburg, and I understand the environmental reasons behind the city's concern: Is it not the best way to build the ground at some point? I've always had a lot of doubt that once and if the airport leaves Watermamor, there'll be some other airport between Reykjavík and Keflavík. I think it's in the best position of a long-term illness. I think the landing would always be to leave the Watermelon airport simply to take the center of the national flight to Keflavík. Then we come to the real questions in my mind regarding the situation then raised, i.e. On the one hand: How do we make sure that transportation between Reykjavík and Chefjordur airports will be in this way, for us as tourism and natural just as the inhabitants of this country, that the pilots can get along quickly and well? And on the other hand, how do we ensure the safety of a patient's plane? These two questions need to be answered. I think it is at best optimistic to think that there was some agreement at some time in the southwest corner, with all the environmental impact it would result in, that putting down a new airport in Hagsau, or somewhere in this area, will break a new land under construction like an airport with the enormous means of transportation that would have to be around it. I can't see it would be easy. I therefore believe that we should trust the city for making wise decisions in behalf of the entire nation. I think the government in Reykjavík is fully aware of their responsibility in this matter. I think they are fully aware of the responsibility of the city as the capital of all of us, and we are to leave them to live up to that responsibility. We are far more concerned about what will happen when and if the course leaves Reykjavík, rather than be concerned about the other matters. I don't think this council mishap will solve the problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u90	Madam President. I'm enjoying this council mishap. You see, I think she's a perfect target failure. I do not really understand the purpose of asking the people such an obvious question: The Amnestic Airport in Watermam is to remain in the Watermam until they move it to another location. I do not understand the purpose of asking such a question to the nation. You must forgive me, but it seems to me to be the contents of the question. In a sense, it is easy to see that no one moves to move the field until there is room for it to go. Reykjavíkurborg is not threatening to close the field, although it has been specified as a timeliness in the setting, etc. I think it's a bit comoretical proposal and cannot help but agree with other members of Congress who have spoken in the past that it might be closer, because this is a plagion proposal made by members of the government, in part of all directions, to concentrate rather on trying to land the matter in a discussion between the state and the Society of Reykjavík. In recent years, governments have systematically drawn their feet and, in effect, refused to accept the community's self - determination rights for their own organizational matters. Of course, that is the obvious part of the matter. There is also considerable interest in smoking and the city of Reykjavík. It is not possible to force the city to hold an airport in the heart of the city, where the city itself does not want to have a field, where it would never seem to be in our mind to set a ground if we were to choose a local airport instead of today, where the inhabitants themselves have described their view that the field should not go. It is good to remember, though it has been long since the vote was taken, that the city's citizens have repeatedly chosen more of its groups to follow the course. I also like to see senators, who now define themselves on the right in political affairs, first of all, bridged with public funds, as this may cost some sort of place between 300 and 400 million. K. To maintain a national law like this, where there is a question about the answer and hardly have to be spent 300 to 400 million. K. in the answer. At the same time, the community's self - determination rights are actually being violated, as the Council is acting directly on the affairs of the city. This is the only case that will be considered. That has no other purpose. When the report is read, which is not quite consistent with the question asked, it is obvious that the authorities want to stop Reykjavíkurburg from moving the field. It is the real will, and as a surprise, most of these senators have long expressed their view that they should force Reykjavík to hold the stadium where he is, that is, some kind of capital duty. In fact, I would like to see where the law defines the duties of capitals. While the government has obligations to all the people of the land, in fact, Reykjavík has a primary obligation to its citizens, such as other rural governments, to the extent legally speaking, even though we can say that the role of the city is greater than that. As far as I can tell, the city took its place with a great, flourishing culture and other useful things to all the inhabitants of the land. I think it'd be nice to go back to 3. It's a government song that says 4 mg. that the involvement of other governments in rural affairs will always take into account community self-control according to the Constitution and the European Council's Treaty on the Self - Control of Unites, to be taken into consideration. Here it is to try to impress on the self - control of the community that is protected by the law set up at the General Assembly, which will be protected by a constitution if it is completed. There is no point in making a national payment, since the question is, in fact, just one answer can be answered, and the answer is obvious. The purpose of the question is someone completely different, he is trying in some way to force the city of Reykjavík not to move the field. There is no legal option other than going to some kind of possession of a city country or whatever it is that the senators want to do to ensure their opinions progress. This is nothing, and we should save 3,300,400 million by passing down this synonym and focusing instead on the government's focus on making peace with the city of Reykjavík on which and how the city's airport will be moved. It is repeatedly the order of the city and its city that the course will eventually take place.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u91	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. It is quite proud of her, as is often shown in the case of a person. A senator, but I'm just gonna ask the question, "What's the solution to the future?" A senator seems to have solutions of all solutions, as at times before? How should these interests be dealt with? What's with the safety benefit? Is there no basis for what is stated in the FIA Security Program? Isn't there a basis for what follows about the patient's flight and its importance for severely ill people and the injury to get to the hospital, 400,5,500 persons a year? It has F1 transport and F2 transport. Is there anything further to trust with the city authorities today for its main organization? It is assumed that the north/south highway will be 2022, which is exactly the same time limit as it was in 2013 at the time of the collection of signatures. The North/south Way was then to go in 2016. Well, maybe. A senator would agree with me that it showed the agreement of Reykjavíkurburg to adopt the main organization and extend the deadlines of the 2022 north/southway and airport as long as a route is being searched for today, such as the Whale test, and the context of its components? The whale trial is under way, but there will be no new airport in Washasse if that place is chosen in three years. The story is a bit, so it's probably not possible to trust Reykjavíkurburg in this process for the last 10◯20 years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u92	Madam President. I don't have any pride in this. I have a bit of fun with this suggestion for exactly the reason I described it. I think it's Colombian in itself. There are some solutions that have been discussed at the future location of the airport. That includes the case of Whalesun. Keflavík has also been discussed. We are at the same time discussing the possibility of some kind of train transportation, a rapid train link at Keflavík that could possibly change the picture, whether Keflavík could be the future location of an international flight or not. I like to keep that in mind, e.g. Regarding the link between the international and national flights, there is also an independent advantage for the rural areas as much as the capital's interests in getting the airport moved. But I'm not going to let a man know where it's best to set down the course, whether it's the best option, that Cheflavík with a train tunnel is the best option. I trust fully with people who are considering these advantages to appreciate it. The problem, however, has been that in the more part of Reykjavík, it is not a matter of trust, whether the field here will be closed according to the value of a major organization. I allow myself to doubt that Reykjavíkurburg will make a one - side decision to close here on the main course of the field with no other solution in hand. But it's the government that's been drawing its foot in this case all along, refusing to acknowledge the wishes of the citizens to move the course. It is the responsibility of those who have handled matters in the national administration, the same categories as those members of the council in this proposal that nothing has happened in the case all these years, because men have objected to respecting the city's will for the performance of the field. That's why we're getting into a time crisis, not because there's something stiff in the city. [[The president calls.]] The city has long described its will in the matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u93	Madam President. Hv. A senator thinks it's Colombian. I can assure you what. There are plenty of people in this country who feel that there are no Colombians. It's only very good and interesting that this opinion is missing. paritaprevir In this case, Wazowski's Þorsteinn Víglundsson, a conniving senator, is that the matter is Colombian.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u94	The Congress. The Conspiracy proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u95	Hv. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Víglundsson of Wormund's village agrees with the code. [[Up front.]] Okay, but I don't think everybody's in the same place and it's fine that it's done here. In terms of high - speed train ideas, as the discussion so often goes into, I have examined and studied quite well the Gardermien train between the Garden and Oslo, which was completed a few years ago. The income works just for the cost of operating from day to day, the same distance, the same length of a tunnel, the 50 miles [50 km] of a tunnel. There has been a set cost plan in Iceland, which is up to 100 billion. I'll bet the train in Oslo costs about 300 to350 billion. It was really the number, so I often feel like people throw things into the air, into the discussion, and mislead her with these things. The link between international flight and domestic flight is just the best. But as well as if that happens, as we did today, as I pointed out, if we go to Cheflavík, if we continue to do so, if it is not to be in Hashsun or any other option near the city, it has been estimated that the international flight passengers will be reduced by 30 to 400%. [[The president calls.]] Today, foreign passengers are 15◯20% of the international flight. This has been a number of times - it has been tried and has not been very successful - between Akureyri and Reykjavík.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u96	Madam President. I reiterate what I said: Yes, I think the Constitutional proposal codemic in this sense so that I feel that the answer to the question is obvious. I don't think there's any reason to spend 300 to400 million. K. in the national law to get that answer, also because this is probably the main reason for some sort of 300◯400 million. K. A poll is that it has no legal value; it is not binding on the city of Reykjavík. I think most people agree completely with the claim that moving an airport is not wise until it is clear where to go. I know why. A senator is a very active spokesman for the responsible treatment of public funds, who sits with me on a budget committee, and there is a very zealous spokesman for the exact same thing. I think he could totally agree with me that we could find a better use for this money when the answer is obvious. I'm not going to wriggle at what? A senator with different options. I know he's very knowledgeable about the flight matters, and I'm not questioning his expertise in that subject. I'm not minimizing the importance of an acceptable solution being found for domestic flights. That's not what this is all about. The problem is that governments, governments of this country, have been fighting back in recent years, in fact, all the time since the city's will, and, in fact, refused to listen to the city, refused to accept the self - determination rights of the citizens of this case, refused to sit down on one accord to find an acceptable solution for the international flight and for the city, for all the inhabitants of this country. I must not forget that, it is quite true, in this country, with good, powerful domestic interests, but, of course, the city has a very rich interest in this matter. This location of the airport in the heart of the city is not the ideal location of the airport, including safety. [[The president calls.]] I don't think any sane man would think of us before today's chance to set down an airport in the place where Reykjavík's airport is, just out of security.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u97	Madam President. It is a pleasure to take up this matter, which I am one of the partners to suggest a judicial hearing about the future of the city's Reykjavík airport. I want to thank you for your transfer, the Nite Owl of Trausti Friðbertsson, especially for his work in these materials. We are 16 members of this council arrangement, and I hope her way will be straight through the council. Of course, it's special, so you're starting only with the discussions that have taken place in the conference hall, in talks ahead of what I think now, listening to how to form a representative of the reverend, huh? paritaprevir Þorsteinn Víglundsson, say and deny it, and no doubt he can give legal reasons for his view, but he clearly says that the capital has no obligation to the inhabitants of the country, that Reykjavíkurburg should have obligation to the inhabitants of Reykjavík, and that so it is finished. It is a very special opinion, I think, to hear so firmly that all the benefits, both income, services, and so forth, of the central service that has been built up in the capital area are in no account appreciated by a senator in this case. I'd like to say here, of course, the city of Reykjavík carries certain obligations, even though most of them are framed in a legal way. Reykjavíkurburg has obligations to the region because of the central service, management and everything built up in the capital area, and all the people of the country have to make use of themselves. There's been a considerable review of confidence here on the part of the party, i.e. Reykjavíkurburg and the government, that men have not been on the rhythms for a long time in this case. There, the person standing here, as if merely to confirm, will be working at the Department of Transport in 2003-2006, and in this case, Reykjavíkurburg was just as far as it is concerned with setting up a cat-nose airport as it is today. Then there was the current mayor, Dagur Eggertsson Emeggerson, president of the planning board, so he's been following this case all along. It was special to hear a United Nations senator, I think it was earlier, saying that there was just no evidence to suggest that Reykjavík was applying for a field elimination plan, which appears in a major organization, to follow. It involves the closing of the north/south highway in 2022. I had little time to look for comments, but I found one with a very quick search for the current Eggertsson, B.. Isn't it safe? - It's clear that the reporter's attitude is expressed in the question. The mayor, Dagur Eggertsson Elegtsson, answers: ▪ The main organization has assumed for ten years that it will go in stages. And a reporter asks, "And after that, is it won? " Eggertsson responds again: The proposal includes it, and we are so absorbed in the process of reacting to it. Because it is really not changing to the main organization of which is now proposed according to what was adopted in 2001. The city's position is that way, and no one has to do with it. If you feel that you are in some doubt about the position of the city, you can say that it crystallizes in the process of making the agreement that people then see each one's very eyes, after it was signed, before the Supreme Court, there was a sentence that the emergency path was called closed and closed. That's for sure. As mentioned in the preceding discussion, the mayor, Dagur B. Eggertsson, has made some committee about the future location of the airport or his representatives simply by not making Reykjavíkurburg ready to deviate from those times. We need to get that out in another and more sure way. The last sign, the last people we senators saw in that regard, was simply a Supreme Court case. That is the way the city went to move about the application of the field and the retreating of one path at a time. The emergency course was closed in 2016, and it is now assumed, according to the same agreement as the Supreme Court is about, that the North/Sunway will be 2022. Thus, we must respect the local Parliament and its members for the privilege of having confidence in the relations of the State and the city of Reykjavík. And when I say so, I'm sorry to say it's the attitude of Reykjavík, which to many of us, rather feels bad about. Of course, local planning is being discussed in this context. It is often referred to as the sacred right of rural society. Now, in my district, the Northwestern district, there has been a long struggle for the Gufudal Squad or forest roads, as most know it. The structure may be holy, human beings can use any term, the local community's involvement, but it is not the official right of the community to misuse the means of planning. I'll just let me say it. It is the capital's duty to take into account the great interest of the region, which lies in the area of the Rady, the good connections between the central service that has been built up in the capital and the inhabitants of the region, it is necessary to reach and have a good access. The benefits of the capital, whether in terms of income or just from all the property taxes and payments paid by public institutions, whether it is an expansive to public employees, access to the ministry, or the expense of the capital itself, in comparison with the local population where hospitalisation is needed, and so on, in this comparison, it would be all the same. As members of the country's settlements, we must demand that representatives of the capital look to these matters in a reasonable way. Today it's not being done. The construction of apartment buildings in the airport is a challenge at the Hormendar's home. Well, gentlemen, I think the construction company's name, it might be some kind of version of a similar name. It has been strange to watch that the system trembles at its bones the day out and the day into which it may have to pay the damages of this fine Valiant - which I don't think is the equivalent of those who fall under the umbrella of the good sports club established by Father Friðrik in the past. I think there's only a need to get back there and think: There may be some damages to going back, but there will be only fractions of the cost of building a new level in a new location. There's one thing that I think it's necessary for people to keep in mind about the organizational part and structure in the Watermelon, if the course goes. Now it is claimed that the city will just blow away and die, and it will be impossible if the Hydromosis is not built. Would this mean that the city would now be in mortal darkness if its waters were surrounded by water? [[The president calls.]] If it wasn't land? If it were, it would be impossible to build... [[The president calls.]] This won't hold any water.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u98	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It was a very good thing to say. Senator: The disaster circuit was closed off from the Supreme Court of 2016. The contract in October 2013 contains these dates: North/southway - instead of closing it 2016, as requested in the collection of signatures, was extended about six years, to 2022, and then the entire course had gone 2024. This is the case with the example of the Judges. Then it was just this deal that I was made as an resident in this country never satisfied, so it's absolutely crystal clear. The nature of the sentence is shown by what it marks. The emergency track was shut down in its time. The 2016 timing was extended to 2022. Then for the north/south highway, and for the entire 2024 course. This is the crystal - clear understanding of the whole matter. Thank you. A senator for reminding you of that point. You got into some trouble because it's a very complicated matter. I just realized it was late last night, just before midnight, that the case should be on the schedule today. So there was no time to prepare and to go through this vast, chemical, and complex matter for so long. This story spanned years and decades. But this is the key. I'm asking why. The senator will agree with me on this point, with the sentence example that has arrived on the runway - the 2022 North/south Road, and the entire 2024 court.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u99	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. There is simply no evidence other than that this is the attitude that the city of Reykjavík is about to take on. Being a representative of the city's committees on other possible advantages does not appear to be a switch, and you are primarily looking at the conclusions that occurred in 2016 following the Supreme Court. This is the agreement since the fall of 2013 that Reykjavík's city seems to look to and while other things are not clearly available from the city, we have to look at it in this way. This is an agreement at the end of 2013. At a certain point, the parties of the agreement disagree on what to read from it. The conclusion is that there will be judicial cases. It ends with the 2013 Supreme Court, which later frames the decision that the disaster course will be closed. There is no evidence to suggest that Reykjavíkurburg has a different view today than when she gave the court case that ended in the 2013 Supreme Court. Just nothing. I'll be along with what. 1 strategist of this synonym, a man's resolution, will be happier if other digests, or moats, appear from the city of Reykjavík. But because. A senator mentioned how long this matter took me so lucky that I had tried to be well inside it ever since 2003. So it was 17 years ago that I began to pay close attention to this matter. It's twisted and extensive. [[The president calls.]] It's a variety of them, but the city of Reykjavík seems to be marching in the same direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u100	Mr. President. 17 years on this case, it's going to be three decades for me. I have been paying close attention to what has happened in this case and its history. It is of utmost importance in this case to identify as a federal court case and to consider, for example, the Supreme Court referred to in a judgment test at the time. the Court's position in a federal court where the judge shows the possible ways to handle the matter is to handle security. The big problem with these judgments is that they were only dealing with the agreements, that negotiations were to be held. The case of the court, the state court, and the Supreme Court never turned to the community's safety and safety concerns. Nor was the case at that time, but only this point, materially, of the fact that the agreement was to be carried out. This should be made clear and very serious in the context of the parts. Then I reiterate what I have said earlier today about the reaction of the city of Reykjavík to me in the morning newspaper in the beginning of December. The mayor said that there was a possibility that he should have considered the safety issues in all of this. There has been no priority in the city to investigate safety interests in all of this matter. The current city government policy has been coming from the airport for a very long time. It's been under the skin for a long time. It has never been achieved how this case should take place in order to be able to settle the matter in the overall context. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u101	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. This is just what this is all about, that the security issues of the flight have always been a factor in all decisions and how Reykjavíkurburg has put its affairs ahead of water mines, and it has been very, very sad. Now we're dealing with a conquistador of national law on the airport in the Hydromosis. Indeed, it can be viewed as a way of settling matters. But from time to time, it has been said that the airport in Watermur has been elected to the population of Reykjavík in 2001. Then I remembered that I've been watching the matter even longer than I managed to count earlier. In 2001 it was this way, if I remember correctly, that those who wanted the field off were slightly more than those who wanted it to stay in the same place but then they always forget to keep representing the smaller section of the city at the time, which was followed by the fact that the watermelon would remain in the lakes, encouraged the field supporters to sit at home and look past this foolish election, as it was then known in certain places. Those who look at that vote of reasonableness may well be aware that far greater support for the nature of the field was then than for its elimination. [[The president calls.]] That vote was a mess from A to Z, and it's been marketd, and it's been all over it ever since.
ParlaMint-IS_2019-03-01-73.u102	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend the discussion much, I was going to sit on the phone and not say anything, but there's a few things I'd like to make up. I think it was in a speech earlier that only the members of the country were doing this bill, but I see at least one member of the Council of New York, and two council members of the Southwestern District, in order to be held. I'm a senator of the Southwestern District. I'm not in the Senate arrangement. Still, I have a full understanding of the fact that the proposal has come. If I were asked if I wanted an airport and an inner - land airport to remain in the depths of Reykjavík until another equally good or better option were ready for use, I would without a doubt say yes. I would do the same thing if you mentioned the centre of a medical flight, but I have to admit that I'm putting a little question at the center of a teaching flight. According to this, it is often the way organizational matters are that if you had an empty sheet of paper, you would do things differently. I believe that the location of the Reykjavík airport in the Watermelon is very good in many ways, if not everything had been organized around it, and if the city of Reykjavík had long been unable to figure out that the airport would be there. However, I would like to say that going to a national hearing on a point relating to local planning is in my mind an attack on the voluntary rights and their organizational authority. But to say, I also have to say: We are in a hurry to face certain problems with regard to differing views and viewpoints on organizational matters. We're having a problem connecting electricity to electric users, i.e. In terms of straddling lines and other things. We're getting into trouble with road transport, and the Reykjavík airport has been a case we've been arguing about, I think it could be for decades. Therefore, I would like to state before whether or not it is time for a national structure taken from the council to take into account some basic structures, such as making round roads, fixing electrical and important resources, as well as taking into consideration important infrastructures, such as ports and airports. This could, to some extent, be said to limit the planning of a rural society but would not be taking out a unique task but would be taking such an overall vision, putting it into some sort of agreement, which I do not doubt would certainly be a great debate, and everyone would never be completely satisfied. The organization of a community would work around it all. This is something that I wanted to throw up in this discussion, which, otherwise, has been very active and enjoyable about matters that the nation has been arguing over for decades and that has long since come to gripped with a solution. I trust the solution is that the airport does not disappear from the Hydromosis until another equally good or better option arises.
